Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21529-BD
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(27200)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 83.4 MILLION (US$ 120.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
FOR GAS INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 31, 2001
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
Exchange Rate = US$ 1.00 = Tk 40.25 at Project Appraisal
US$ 1.00 = Tk 51.00 at Project Closing
FISCAL YEAR
July - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A-B           Ashuganj-Bakhrabad
DFID          Department for International Development, UK
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ESMS          Environment & Safety Management Systems
GTCL          Gas Transmission Company Limited
IDA           International Development Association
IOC           International Oil Company
MMCFD         Million Cubic Feet Per Day
MSIP          Management Systems Improvement Program
OCs           Operating Companies
PSC           Production Sharing Contract
SGFL          Sylhet Gas Fields Limited
SCADA         Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
TA            Technical Assistance
T&D           Transmission & Distribution
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Frederick T. Temple
Sector Director:  Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Team Leader:    A.S.M. Bashirul Hug



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
GAS INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Cr. 2720-BD)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   11
9. Partner Comments                                                                  12
10. Additional Information                                                           12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Boffower Performance                                   21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                22
Annex 7A. Implementation Completion Mission: Aide Memoire                            23
Annex 7B. Borrower's Evaluation                                                      27
Annex 7C. Borrower's Comments on Bank's Implementation Completion Report             37
Annex 7D. Status of Compliance with Covenants                                       41
Annex 7E. Financial Tables of GTCL and SGFL                                          45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gas Infrastructure Development
Project (GIDP) in Bangladesh, for which Cr.2720-BD in the amount of SDR 83.4 million (US$
120.80 million equivalent) was approved on May 24, 1995, and made effective on June 24, 1995.
The Credit was closed on the original closing date of June 30, 2000. A total of SDR 48.87
equivalent to US$ 67.92 million was disbursed. On March 27, 2000, a saving of SDR 29.0
million was cancelled and another SDR 5.53 million (equivalent to US$ 7.05 million) was
cancelled upon Credit closing. Cofmnancing for the project was provided by Department for
International Development (DFID), UK.
The ICR was prepared by A.S.M. Bashirul Huq, Senior Energy Specialist, and reviewed by
Messrs. Frederick T. Temple, Country Director; Alastair J. McKechnie, Sector Director and Marc
L. Heitner, Lead Energy Specialist (SASEG). The ICR is based on the findings of the
Implementation Completion Mission, as well as documentation in the project files. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing its own evaluation and by commenting on the
draft ICR. The draft ICR was also sent to DFID which chose not to comment on the report.






Project ID: P009533                                     Project Name: Gas Infrastructure Development
Team Leader: A. S. M. Bashirul Huq                      TL Unit: SASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: January 31, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Gas Infrastructure Development               L/C/TFNumber: 27200
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                         Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: GP - Oil & Gas Transportation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/10/92                              Efftctive: 08/22/95          06/22/95
Appraisal:  04/30/93                                MTR:                       12/03/97
Approval: 05/09/95                                Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Govemment of BangladeshlPETROBANGLA, GTCL, SGFL
Other Partners: Deparment for International Development (DFID), UK
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                         D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Frederick Thomas Temple                  Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager:      Alastair J. Mckechnie                    Per Ljung
Team Leader at ICR:  Marc Heitner
ICR Primary Author:  A.S.M. Bashirul Huq
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Otutcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were to: (a) alleviate the worsening gas supply shortages through partially
financing the sector's priority investments; (b) assist in implementing further reforms to improve the
enabling environment for private sector participation in the sector; and (c) develop the gas sector entities'
institutional capabilities particularly in the areas of operations and maintenance; safety; environmental



protection; and accounting and financial management.
The project aimed at increasing gas supply through the public sector and strengthening the capability of the
concerned Government entities. Hence, the design of the project was consistent with the Borrower's
priorities. With respect to facilitating private sector involvement, there was no component (or particular
conditionality) attached to the fulfillment of that objective except for providing technical assistance for
operationalization of the newly created Gas Transmission Company Limited (GTCL) to enable its
functioning as the common carrier of gas. Furthermore, Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) were signed
with two International Oil Companies (IOCs) before the project went to Board, and this was regarded as an
indication of the Borrower's commitment to attract private investments in petroleum exploration and
production. The project was relatively straightforward to execute, and did not entail significant reforms, so
that the risks were relatively low.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the project life.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the project objectives, the original project components included: (a) a 58-km, 30-inch diameter
gas pipeline from Ashuganj to Bakhrabad; (b) a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and
pipeline telecommunication system for the entire transmission trunkline from Kailashtilla to Chittagong and
integration with existing facilities; (c) three production wells at Rashidpur gas field; (d) a gas processing
plant to purify gas from the new wells; and (e) technical assistance components consisting of: (i) project
implementation support through consultancy and management services to prepare designs and bid
documents, assist in bid evaluation and provide construction supervision/management for the components
listed in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) above; (ii) institution building assistance through consultancy and
management services to develop managerial and technical capabilities of Gas Transmission Company
Limited (GTCL), establish a group-wide environmental and safety management system, strengthen
reservoir management capability, and improve Petrobangla group's management systems; and (iii) training
of Petrobangla staff in key aspects of gas sector operations.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no major changes in project scope. The Credit also supported the preparation of the Second
Round of exploration licensing - this involved arranging a promotional effort to the oil industry, and
training of Petrobangla staff and assisting in the evaluation of the offers of oil companies. This was
compatible with the project objectives of promoting an enabling environment for private sector
participation, and therefore, did not require Board approval.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
In order to create an enabling environment for private sector participation, a number of conditions would
have to be fulfilled, including: (i) passage of appropriate legislation; (ii) transfer of responsibility of
petroleum policy, and management of the resource base from Petrobangla to the State; (iii) preparation of a
framework for timely revision of gas tariff; and (iv) operationalization of the newly created GTCL. Such
measures cannot be achieved without extensive discussions with the stakeholders, an assessment of their
reservations, and addressing those effectively. By following such an approach, there would have been
wider ownership for the reform measures, and the chances for success would have improved



correspondingly. Project preparation took a long time as negotiations were linked to the signature of a
number of PSCs with IOCs. Other measures were not provided for as the Borrower indicated that these
would materially affect its leverage in negotiating exploration concessions with IOCs.
Furthermore, the financial covenants followed the old practice of ensuring the financial solvency of
individual subsidiaries of Petrobangla. Thus, the Bank to a large extent covenanted transfer prices within
the Petrobangla group. Such an approach would not ensure that Petrobangla would be operating in a
financially sound manner, specifically, the activities of Petrobangla as well as the two Transmission and
Distribution Companies were subjected to loose targets. As a result, the Bank could do little when it
realized that the Petrobangla Group as a whole was operating at a loss, largely because of the reluctance of
the Government to adjust tariffs as agreed during negotiations.
Based on the above, the project is rated "Unsatisfactory at Entry".
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Alleviate Gas Supply Shortages
The A-B pipeline was constructed with the purpose of bringing excess gas from the large gas fields in the
Northeast part of Bangladesh to the Southeast. The 58-km 30-inch pipeline was constructed and
commissioned in April 1997. Meanwhile, a PSC for an offshore block in Southeast Bangladesh was signed
in 1995 with an IOC. The PSC contractor announced a commercial discovery (Sangu) in June 1997, which
started to produce in June 1998 at the rate of 60 MMCFD, gradually increasing to 160 MMCFD. As a
result, the need to bring natural gas from the Northeast fields to the Southeast market largely disappeared
(except for emergency situations). Consequently, gas flows in the A-B pipeline over the past two years has
averaged less than 100 MMCFD, against a design capacity of 450 MMCFD. It is anticipated that only in
2004 will the A-B pipeline operate at about 50-75 percent of its design capacity, once large IPPs at
Haripur (360 MW) and Meghnaghat (2 x 450 MW each) are commissioned. It should be stressed that the
discovery of the Sangu field could not be anticipated when the Project was under preparation. Another
component of the Project aimed at alleviating gas shortages consisted in the drilling and completion of three
wells at the existing Rashidpur field, together with a treatment plant with a capacity of 90 MMCFD.
While the investment was executed and completed over 1998-2000, the additional wells could not be put
into full production on account of pipeline constraints and absence of commensurate demand. As a matter
of fact, the current capacity of the N-S system is 350 MMCFD, of which about 100 MMCFD was
committed in 1999 to ship the output of a gas field currently operated by an IOC at Jalalabad, and the
balance to ship gas from Petrobangla properties. As a result, the Rashidpur wells are put into production
only occasionally. Presently these three wells are producing only 45 MMCFD. Nevertheless, Petrobangla
has arranged to have the N-S pipeline expanded (completion is expected in June 2001). It is anticipated
that the Rashidpur wells will start full production around 2002. Again, this situation could not be
anticipated during project preparation.
The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) component of the project is at risk of completion
as the contractor has gone into receivership. Furthermore, for the SCADA system to be used effectively,
all the high-pressure transmission pipelines currently operated by three T&D companies ought to be
transferred to GTCL, the common carrier. However, transfer of pipelines to GTCL is currently at a
standstill largely because of resistance of the unions and lack of Borrower commitment. Thus, it remains to
be established whether Bangladesh will receive the full benefits of this component.
- 3 -



In all, Bangladesh was able to overcome the gas shortage which prevailed in the early 1 990s through the
rapid development of gas reserves by foreign oil companies. As a result, the Bank-financed components of
the Project, while useful in the long term, were developed prematurely. Under the circumstances, the
outcome of this component is rated "Unsatisfactory".
Improve Enabling Environment for Private Sector
The Project had an objective of creation of an enabling environment for private sector involvement, but did
not include any covenant to this end. The only component that addressed private sector involvement was
the twinning arrangement for GTCL which was envisaged to be the common carrier of gas to ensure level
playing field for private and public companies. However, one important condition would have been a time
bound transfer plan of transmission lines from the three T&D companies to GTCL to make it fully
operational, but there was no such condition. When it became clear in 1997 that there would be significant
savings under the Credit, the Government requested the Bank to finance construction of a pipeline to the
Westem region by way of the Jamuna Bridge (then under construction). The Bank agreed to favorably
consider this request provided that two transmission pipelines be transferred from two T&D companies to
the transmission company. Such action would have significantly contributed to the creation of a single
transmission system operating as a common carrier. While appreciative of the Bank's position, the
Borrower could not implement these reforms, largely on account of labor opposition. The pipeline was
ultimately built with Petrobangla/Govemment resources.
In 1996, the Bank was requested to assist the Government in the execution of an exploration promotion
program, which, while not specifically included in the description of the Project, was within its objectives.
As a result, during 1997, US$ 0.5 million were used to package the program, execute the promotional
effort, and evaluate the bids. The program attracted significant interest from the international oil industry
as 37 bids were received for 12 out of 15 blocks in the offering. Bid evaluation was completed in
December 1997. Notwithstanding repeated reminders from the Bank, the authorities did not award
exploration contract for the subsequent two years, and by Credit Closing (June 2000) only one PSC had
been signed under the second round.
Under the circumstances, and given the fact that little progress was made in the essential areas required for
private sector participation as anticipated at appraisal (higher autonomy for the Petrobangla Operating
Companies (OCs); appointment of outside directors; appropriate tariffs; establishment of commercial
relationships; preparation of OCs for privatization; passage of law enabling sector regulation, among
others), the outcome in relation to the enabling environment for private sector participation is rated
"Unsatisfactory".
Develop Institutional Capabilities
The project included the strengthening of the gas transmission company GTCL through a twinning
contract, as well as Management Systems Improvement Program (MSIP), and Environment and Safety
Management System (ESMS) for the Petrobangla group. These were implemented successfully.
On the other hand, the implementation of two components was frustrated by bureaucratic delays; one was
cancelled and the other was only partially implemented. Notwithstanding considerable preparatory work by
Petrobangla and the local authorities, a sizeable training program (300 man-months of training both in
Bangladesh and abroad) was aborted in early 2000 when it became clear that the closing date would not be
extended. Regarding the strategic Reservoir Management Assistance program, which aimed at developing
- 4 -



domestic capabilities in assessing gas reserves and managing gas reservoirs, negotiations with the selected
contractor lasted over a year. As a result of this, a considerably reduced program was implemented which
contributed little to upgrading local skills and did not result in the provision of the essential software and
hardware together with the skills to operate them. In all, the outcome of the institution building component
is rated "Unsatisfactory".
Financial Objectives and Compliance with Covenants
While not formally an objective of the Project, ensuring the financial viability of Petrobangla's OCs was
covenanted under the Credit, requiring the achievement of specified goals. Throughout the execution of the
Project, its beneficiaries - (Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL) failed to comply with at least some of the
financial covenants. In particular, the submission of audited accounts was repeatedly late, and revenue
targets as well as collection targets were not met. Taking also into account the significant financial impact
on Petrobangla of transactions with foreign oil companies, the financial condition of Petrobangla group is
currently precarious. In FY99, the auditors had four qualifications on the accounts. Petrobangla advised
that remedial measures were being taken.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A-B Pipeline
The 58-km 30-inch diameter A-B pipeline was constructed on time under a turnkey contract, and with a
considerable cost saving (actual cost of US$ 55 million against US$ 63 million estimated at appraisal).
As explained above (section 4.1), gas flows in the pipeline are considerably below appraisal estimates. The
output of this component, under the circumstances, is "Unsatisfactory".
SCADA and Pipeline Telecommunications System
Implementation of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system for high pressure gas
transmission line (financed by DFID) is incomplete as the contractor went into receivership before
completing its contractual obligation. Some 80 percent of the physical works were completed; the
telecommunication system in the Bakhrabad-Comilla section is functioning properly while mechanical
problems in the Comilla-Chittagong section are yet to be addressed. Only 17 sites out of a total 70 have
been brought under the Central Control. DFID is negotiating with a sub-contractor for completion of the
remaining work. Transfer of high-pressure transmission pipelines from T&D companies to GTCL is on
hold because of the opposition of labor unions (see section 4.1), and Borrower's lack of commitment.
Unless such a transfer takes place, full benefit cannot be reaped from a telecommunication network for the
whole gas trunk-line. The output of this component is "Unsatisfactory".
Drilling of Three Wells at Rashidpur
The three wells at Rashidpur and the gas treatment plant were completed in October 1999 (about 4 months
late) at a cost of US$ 16.7 million (against an appraisal estimate of US$ 24.3 million). As explained above
(section 4.1), the wells are not producing to full capacity on account of pipeline constraints. The output of
this component, under the circumstances, is "Unsatisfactory".
Gas Processing Plant at Rashidpur
The gas processing plant at Rashidpur was successfully completed under a US$ 11.8 million turnkey
- 5 -



contract. The component had a total cost of US$ 14.7 million against an appraisal estimate of US$ 23.9
million. The plant is not operating at its full capacity at present as the three wells at Rashidpur are
producing only part of its capacity (section 4.1), hence the output of this component, under the
circumstances, is "Unsatisfactory".
Technical Assistance
(i)    Project Implementation Support
Consulting services under the technical assistance component of the Project were completed
satisfactorily for preparing designs and bid documents, assisting in bid evaluation and providing
construction supervision/management for the above physical components.
(ii)   Institution Building
Assistance to GTCL: The twinning contract for developing GTCL's managerial and technical
services was completed satisfactorily. Some 20 GTCL staff worked with the contractor and
participated in the training/technology transfer covering, inter alia, measurement, Cathodic
Protection, O&M, pipeline design. GTCL officials greatly benefited by the transfer of knowledge
and experience of the expatriate consultant. The output of this component is "Highly Satisfactory".
Environment and Safety Management Program: An Environmental and Safety Management
Division was established in Petrobangla with appropriate staff. Its main function is to increase
awareness to safety throughout Petrobangla. Similar cells were also established in the OCs for
monitoring the environment and safety aspects of their operation. A "Safety Week" is now
observed each year and includes a parade in Dhaka to foster public awareness of gas safety issues.
The output of this component is considered "Satisfactory".
Reservoir Management: The Reservoir Management Cell as envisaged by the Reservoir
Management Assistance Program has been established. However, due to a combination of: (i)
delays in the appointment of the consultants; (ii) subsequent delays in the transfer of petrophysical
data; and (iii) the poor condition of data tapes, staff were not trained, and reservoir studies carried
out were incomplete. The output of this component is, therefore, "Unsatisfactory".
Improvement of Group Management System: Management System Improvement Program (MSIP),
financed by DFID, aimed at improving the financial system of Petrobangla resulted in the
introduction of uniform codes of accounts, preparation of a Corporate Accounting Manual for the
Petrobangla group, and preparation of a consolidated group accounts. Installation of computerized
systems for accounting and management information systems in each OC and at Petrobangla is
currently on-going and is expected to be fully completed by June 2001. The output of this
component is rated "Satisfactory".
(iii)  Training
It was anticipated at appraisal that a very significant (300 m/m) training program would be carried
out covering all the areas of operations of an oil company, from drilling to gas transmission
systems management. Training was to be provided both in Bangladesh and abroad. Petrobangla
changed training strategies during project implementation, and the authorities required more than a
- 6 -



year to approve the program. By January 2000, the selection of training institutions was not
completed. Given the proximity to the closing date, and notwithstanding requests to extend the
Credit, this component had to be cancelled. The output of this component is thus rated "Highly
Unsatisfactory".
With hindsight, Project design fails to provide incentives to improve the operating environment for
private sector participation. In contrast, the institution building component was well designed, but
lacked ownership. Elaborate performance indicators were agreed at negotiations, but were not
quantified, and therefore monitoring of these indicators was discontinued during project
implementation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ex-post economic rate of return of the Project was established on the basis of the methodology used at
Project appraisal. The Project components were part of the priority investment program of the sector so
that the benefits are not separable from those of other components in the investment program. Therefore, a
cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the total sector investment program over 1995-2000. For this
purpose, the total investment expenditure for the said period along with the corresponding operating and
maintenance costs, was evaluated against the resulting economic benefits. In terms of incremental gas
sales, the rate of return is 20 percent. Using the intemational oil price as a proxy for economic benefit, the
rate of return is 37 percent. The appraisal estimates for the economic rate of return were 23 percent based
on incremental gas tariff, and 33 percent based on fuel oil price parity. The higher rate of return at project
closure based on fuel oil parity is due to the significant increase in the international price of fuel oil.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not computed at appraisal. Accordingly, no financial rate of return has been
calculated for this ICR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Expectations at appraisal were that the project would result in Petrobangla gradually becoming an
organization being run along commercial lines; providing, for instance, that the subsidiaries would operate
along private company laws, gas tariffs would be adjusted to attain certain targets, and that decision
making would be decentralized, each subsidiary becoming an independent, self financing entity. At the
sectoral level, it was anticipated that an action program (leading to privatization) would be formulated, a
regulatory framework established, and rational tariff policies introduced. Over the past five years however,
while attempts were made to reform the gas sector, results were minimal: (i) the Petrobangla Group and the
State maintain their tight control over the operating companies; (ii) the financial condition of the
Petrobangla group, deteriorated, and currently it operates at a loss; and (iii) a Gas Law has been drafted
but is being processed at a slow pace - it is yet to be submitted to Parliament. On the other hand, the
onset of gas production by IOCs over 1998-99 on the basis of long term take or pay contracts (they now
account for about 20 percent of gas production approximately), has encouraged commercialization of
Petrobangla and its OCs, but much remains to be done. In all, the institutional impact of the Project has
been minimal.
-7 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no significant factors affecting the project which were outside government or implementing
agencies' control.
5.2 Factors generally siubject to government control:
Project implementation was affected adversely by bureaucratic delays: (i) the consultancy contract for the
reservoir management study had to be amended to enable Petrobangla to pay income tax on revenue earned
by the consultant's staff in Bangladesh - the change had to be approved by the Government and some 14
months were required from selection of the consultant to signing of contract; and (ii) approval of TAPP for
implementing the training program was held up for eight months. Given that the closing date was not
extended, the first phase of the consultant assignment for reservoir management assistance was carried out
incompletely, and the training component was not implemented altogether.
Tariffs are controlled by Government, and it was agreed with the Bank that these would be revised to
enable OCs to achieve financial targets. Nevertheless, throughout the project implementation period,
beneficiary companies failed to meet their financial objectives. As a matter of fact, following a tariff
revision in May 1994, tariffs were only revised again in December 1998 (by 15 percent), but the increase
did not suffice to cover inflation in the interim, and the devaluation of Taka. In US$ terms, tariffs
following the 1998 adjustment were lower than those prevailing at the time the Project was initiated.
Furthermore, given that Petrobangla buys gas from IOCs at prices linked to international oil prices, and
sells at much lower prices expressed in Taka, and that Petrobangla is heavily taxed, Petrobangla currently
operates at a loss. On the whole, Petrobangla's financial condition deteriorated during the Project
implementation as tariff adjustments have largely been subject to political considerations.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project coincided with the signing of PSCs with IOCs selected under the First Round, and the bidding
and negotiations for the Second Round (which attracted significant industry interest). Under those
agreements, Petrobangla acted as partner, regulator, gas buyer and administrator of the national petroleum
data base (in most of the countries, some of these duties are under the State's purview). This strained the
institutional capacity of Petrobangla to the limit, all the more so since talented staff left the entity for jobs
with IOCs. As a result, the institutional capacity of Petrobangla declined, which explains some of the
shortcomings in Project execution.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Significant cost reductions in construction of Ashuganj-Bakhrabad pipeline, gas processing plant at
Rashidpur as well as the development of the Rashidpur gas field resulted in a savings of SDR 30.3 million
(US$ 41.9 million) under the Credit. Furthermore, the incomplete implementation of the TA component
resulted in a saving of SDR 4.0 million. An amount of SDR 29.0 million (US$ 38.8 million) was cancelled
on March 27, 2000, and an undisbursed balance of SDR 5.53 million was cancelled at Credit closing.
- 8 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Regarding the investment component, Petrobangla and its affiliates are capable of operating the pipeline
and gas treatment plant, and no major difficulties should be anticipated in this respect. On the other hand,
the ability of Petrobangla to meet its investment requirements to prevent gas shortages in the future is
severely limited. Given the desire of the Government and Petrobangla to maintain the gas sector under
public ownership, it is unlikely, at least in the short term, that necessary structural changes will be made to
create an environment for enhanced private sector participation. Under the circumstances, the Project's
sustainability is rated "Unlikely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The investment components of the project constitute in effect relatively small additions to existing
activities, so that no significant technical issues should be anticipated in this respect. Nevertheless, given
the financial constraints of the Petrobangla group, it remains to be seen whether Petrobangla will be able to
maintain the facilities in accordance with industry best practices. Areas of concem in this respect include
gas well maintenance and workover, reservoir management, treatment plant maintenance and pipeline
operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
* The Project objectives were appropriate at the time the Project was designed, and are still relevant at
present. Alleviation of gas shortages was an important objective given the devastating impact of gas
shortages on the economy (particularly the power and fertilizer industries). Creating an enabling
environment for private sector participation is critical if the Bangladesh gas sector is to attract
capital, skills and technology commensurate with the huge potential of the gas sector for the
Bangladesh economy. Unfortunately, there were no elements in the design of the Project, or covenanted
under the Credit, to foster this objective. And enhancing the institutional capabilities of Petrobangla
and affiliates was also a priority given the fast pace at which the international oil industry develops.
Remediation offinancial weaknesses in Petrobangla was an important objective embedded in Project
design. Except for the first objective, the degree of commitment of the Borrower to address the other
objectives has proven marginal and problematic. The Bank relied on the conditionality attached by
another donor to address major policy issues in the gas sector, a strategy that proved ineffective. The
risks were incompletely assessed at appraisal as the possibility of the two investment components being
rendered premature given the onset of commercial production from IOCs, was not addressed.
Monitoring indicators were well defined but not quantified at appraisal, thus could not be used as
intended to follow up on progress. In all, particularly given that this was the fourth Credit for a sector
which failed to meet expectations under earlier IDA Credits, the Bank's performance at appraisal can
be rated as "Unsatisfactory".
-9-



7.2 Supervision:
*   The Project Task Team Leader has been changed four times during the project period. The project was
regularly supervised by IDA staff and consultants, with a total of 9 missions including one mid-term
review. In addition, resident mission staff was constantly in close contact with the implementing
agencies and key Government officials. Key decisions made during project supervision were related to
restructuring of the project to respond to the Government's request to finance the Western Zone
pipeline under the Credit provided that action be taken to: (i) cause compliance with the financial
covenants; (ii) initiate the consolidation of the transmission system into one company operating as a
common carrier; and (iii) standard Bank conditions related to the financing of projects (social
assessment, environmental assessment, procurement, disbursement etc.). The conditions were
acknowledged by the authorities but never complied with, so that the considerable savings under the
Credit were cancelled;
*   Over 1996-97, IDA agreed to finance under the Credit technical assistance to support the Government'
s efforts to attract oil industry investment (the "Second Round"). While the promotional effort was
very successful (37 bids from 12 companies on the 15 blocks offered), by June 2000, only one contract
was awarded (recommendations on the award of exploration acreage were submitted in December
1997); and
*   In early 2000, notwithstanding the fact that two TA components were at risk (reservoir management,
training program), the Bank decided not to extend the closing date beyond June 30, 2000, given
particularly that the financial targets were not complied with, and that the lack of progress on the TA
components was attributable solely to factors under the control of the Borrower.
Thus, with limited leverage, the Bank tried to facilitate private sector entry into the gas sector, an
important objective under the Credit, but results on the ground were modest at best. Furthermore,
throughout the life of the Project, Bank missions repeatedly underscored the need to act on tariffs, and
accelerate the implementation of the TA Component, but little was achieved. Under the circumstances,
the performance of the Bank at supervision is rated "Satisfactory".
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The design of the Project was not consistent with its objectives, particularly with respect to the creation of
an environment conducive to private participation in the gas sector. Furthermore, lessons from previous
Projects were not fully drawn - for instance, had the procurement of the reservoir management consultant
and the training contractor been initiated prior to Project effectiveness, these components would have been
implemented as intended at appraisal. Efforts to correct matters during supervision proved unsuccessful.
Lastly, given that the two major investment components proved premature, that the institution building
objective was attained only partially, and that the financial condition of Petrobangla deteriorated during the
period, the impact of the Credit on the sector has been marginal. The Bank's overall performance is,
therefore, rated "Unsatisfactory".
- 10-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Petrobangla prepared the project based on its investment program which was designed to meet anticipated
gas demand. The development of the Rashidpur field, as well as the A-B pipeline were designed to meet
the anticipated gas shortage in the Southeast - it was not expected at the time that private oil companies
would start producing in the Northeast (thus holding up the onset of production in Rashidpur), as well as
the Southeast (thus reducing the flow in the A-B pipeline). The need for a Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA) in a gas system can hardly be over emphasized, and the inclusion of a SCADA for
the gas transmission system was a right and timely step. The technical assistance components were well
formulated and consistent with priorities. The Borrower and Petrobangla's performance in project
preparation are rated "Satisfactory".
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Achievement of the Project objectives was adversely affected by: (i) long delays in the procurement
process, particularly for services; (ii) insufficient commitment to attain the corporate financial targets for
Petrobangla and its OCs. particularly with respect to tariffs; and (iii) lack of political will to address the
deep systemic issues in the sector, particularly regarding the enhancement of the role of the private sector.
As a result, physical objectives have been attained, but institutional performance remains below par. Under
the circumstances, the performance of the Government is rated "Unsatisfactory".
7.6 Imiplementing Agency:
The project was implemented by three agencies, viz., Petrobangla (holding), and its operating companies
GTCL and SGFL. Petrobangla dealt with the implementation of the four major technical assistance
components: (i) ESMS, (ii) MSIP, (iii) Reservoir Management Assistance, and (iv) Training. GTCL was
responsible for construction of: (i) A-B pipeline; and (ii) SCADA and a technical assistance component of
Twinning. SGFL, as a beneficiary of the project, was entrusted with the drilling and the gas treatment
plant at Rashidpur. Although the technical assistance components were not all implemented satisfactorily,
implementation of the investment components was satisfactory. Hence, performance of the implementation
agencies is rated "Satisfactory".
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Because of lack of commitment and ownership of this project, there were lack of initiatives and delays in
taking decisions particularly at the Government level. This had adverse ramifications on the Project; for
instance, a Committee set up in February 1998 to study the rationalization of the transmission network is
still to make its recommendations known. Furthermore, the implementation of the training and reservoir
management components was frustrated primarily by bureaucratic delays. The financial condition of
Petrobangla remains precarious. On the whole, the performance of the Borrower was "Unsatisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
Advance Procurement Action
Preparations for the A-B pipeline, development drilling at Rashidpur and gas treatment plant were initiated
prior to Bank approval of the Credit and hence these components were implemented in a timely fashion.
- 11 -



On the other hand, procurement of the TA components started late, and in the case of the training
component, differences surfaced regarding the training strategy during Project implementation. An
important lesson as a result is that implementation of soft components ought to be initiated at an early stage
of the Project cycle.
Commitment to Reforms
While the Project had as an objective of creating an enabling environment for private sector participation,
this objective was not supported by specific actions or undertakings of the authorities. The sole provision
was that consultations would take place on an action program prepared by consultants, under the
sponsorship of another financier. Efforts made by supervision missions to support restructuring and
reforms proved unsuccessful, given the lack of leverage. Considering the lack of consensus on reforms,
more preparatory activities should have been carried out prior to Credit approval, and irreversible action
(such as enactment of appropriate legislation) taken prior to effectiveness.
Financial Framework
Designing financial covenants for individual affiliates does not necessarily imply that the sector's financial
condition is sound - the covenants in many cases related to transfer prices whose financial significance is
limited. Consideration should have been given to designing financial targets applicable to Petrobangla on a
consolidated basis - this would have required that Petrobangla prepares consolidated accounts.
Furthermore, given the history of compliance with covenants, the Bank should require that tariff policies be
adopted by Government, following which tariff adjustments would take place automatically, for instance
through indexation. This would spare the bureaucratic travails of tariff adjustments at the Cabinet level.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower comments were received which appear at Annex 7B. While the Borrower has generally
complimented the Bank for its seriousness and helpful attitude towards implementation of the project, it has
been critical of the Bank for delay in approval of procurement/evaluation. The Borrower was frustrated by
the Bank's refusal to grant an extension of the Credit closing to enable completion of the two small but
important technical assistance components (reservoir management and training). The grounds for not
extending the Credit are in section 7.2.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from DFID.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable as no such organization was directly involved in design and implementation of the project.
10. Additional Information
- 12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Mlatrix           Projected in last PSR      I Actual/Latest Estimate
Alleviation of the         Partially achieved. A-B pipeline is  Same as before.
worsening gas supply       not fully utilized, and the three
shortages.                wells drilled under the project are
not producing due to capacity
constraints in North-South pipeline.
Assisting GOB in           Partially achieved. Award of blocks.  Negotiation on block nine is at
implementing further       under Bank supported Second      final stage.
reforms to improve the     Round Bidding has been slow.
enabling environment for   PSCs have been signed for only two
private participation in the  blocks and initialed for three
gas sector of Bangladesh.  blocks. Negotiation on the
remaining blocks is continuing.
Development of the sector  The twinning and ESMS have been  The strategic Reservoir
entities' institutional    completed successfully.          Management component was
capabilities.                                               only partially implemented
while training program was
not implemented at all.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/MNatrix          Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
Construction of a 57-km    The pipeline was constructed     Gas flow through this pipeline
30-inch pipeline from      successfully in April 1997.     is only around 50 MMCFD.
Ashugani to Bakhrabad by
GTCL.
Completion of drilling and  Wells 5, 6 and 7 were successfully  Same as before.
putting into production of  drilled resulting in an increase in
three wells at Rashidpur gas  SGFL's production capacity by 90
field.                     MMCFD. However, these wells
cannot be put into production due to
capacity constraints in North-South
pipeline.
Construction of a gas      The gas processing plant was
processing plant at       successfully completed under a
Rashidpur.                turnkey contract with a Chinese
company.
- 13-



lndicator[Nlatrix         Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
Installation of a Supervisory  Only 80 percent of the physical  Completion of this component
Control and Data          work have been completed so far.  is uncertain.
Acquisition (SCADA)       This component is at risk of
system for the gas        completion as the contractor
transmission network of   Granger Telecom has left the site
Bangladesh.               before fulfilling its contractual
obligation.
Operationalization of     The twinning contract has been
GTCL with the transfer of  completed successfully.
knowledge and hands-on
experience under a
twinning arrangement with
a foreign gas company.
Implementation of a       This component has been completed  Draft report is yet to be
group-wide Environmental  successfully. Draft final report on  finalized.
and Safety Management     ESMS guidelines has been
System (ESMS) and         submitted in May 2000. An
development of adequate   Environment and Safety Division in
safety standards and      Petrobangla and an Environment
environmental protection  and Safety Cell in each OC have
rules for its operations.  been set up.
Institutional strengthening  This component has been only  This component is left
of the Reservoir          partially implemented due to delays  incomplete.
Management unit at        in appointment of consultant.
Petrobangla through       Petrobangla is considering the
comprehensive reservoir   option of financing from its own
management study.         resources to implement this
important component.
Improvement of accounting  Cofinanced by DFID, this        Installation of computer
and financial policies and  component is progressing       systems at all sites almost
procedures and            satisfactorily and is expected to be  complete. Data input is
management information    fully implemented by December    continuing. Project expected to
system                    2000.                            be fully implemented by June
2001.
Training of Petrobangla   Training program could not be    This component remains
staff in geophysics, geology,  implemented due to bureaucratic  unimplemented.
well drilling, well       bottlenecks in approval of TAPP
completion, gas treatment  and selection of training institution.
processes, gas transmission
system management, and
safety engineering.
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ million
Ashuganj-Bakhrabad Gas Pipeline                     63.30          55.01           87
SCADA and Telecom System                            23.20          29.48          127
Emergency Response Equipment                         2.00           0.37            19
Development of Three Wells                          24.30          16.70           69
Gas Processing Plant                                23.90          14.68           61
Technical Assistance                                24.90          18.63           75
Total Baseline Cost                                161.60         134.87
Total Project Costs            161.60         134.87
Interest during construction  10.10
Total Financing Required            171.70         134.87
Actual/Latest Estimates include Interest During Construction
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
Expenditure Category               Procurem nt Method          Total Cost
IB  NCB      Other    N.B.F.
Ashuganj-Bakhrabad Gas Pipeline      63.3                                   63.3
(55.9)                                (55.9)
SCADA and Telecom System                                       (23.2)       23.2
(0.0)      (0.0)
Emergency Response Equipment            2                                    2.0
(1.9)                                 (1.9)
Development of Three Wells           12.7      1.8      9.8                 24.3
(12.3)    (1.3)     (9)               (22.6)
Gas Processing Plant                 23.9                                   23.9
(22.5)                                (22.5)
Technical Assistance & Training                         17.9       7        24.9
1(17.91      (0.01)    (17.911
Total                               101.9      1.8     27.7      30.2      161.6
(92.6)    (1.3)   (26.9)    (0.0)     (120.
- 15-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimates)
Expenditure Category                  ICB              it Othod             Total Cost
[CB   NCB..    Otttr     N.B.F.
Ashuganj-Bakhrabad Gas Pipeline           55.0                                     55.0
(34.1)                                   (34.1)
Gas Processing Plant                     14.7                                      14.7
(11.6)                                   (11.6)
SCADA and Telecom System                                              29.5        29.5
(0.0)
Emergency Response Equipment              0.4                                      0.4
(0.4)                                    (0.4)
Development of Three Wells               16.7                                     16.7
(12.8)                                   (12.8)
Technical Assistance & Training           6.7                 3.3      8.6         18.6
(6.1)              (3.0)                 (9.1
Total                                    93.4       0.0       3.3     38.1       134.81
___                                (64.       (0.0)     (3.0      (0.0)     (67.9W
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
r                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
ID-      Go't.     CoF.      IDA      Go%[.     CoF.    IDA    Goat.  CoF.
Ashuganj-Bakhrabad Gas  55.90     7.40               34.07     20.93             60.9  282.8
Pipeline
SCADA and Telecom                          23.20               5.23     24.25                 104.5
System
Emergency Response      1.90      0.10               0.37                        19.5   0.0
Equipment
Development of Three    22.60     1.70               12.29     4.42              54.4  260.0
Wells
Gas Processing Plant    22.50     1.40               11.26     3.42              50.0   0.0
Technical Assistance    17.90     0.00      7.00     9.06      1.76      7.78    50.6   0.0   111.1
Total Cost by Components  120.80  10.60    30.20     67.90     34.90    32.00    56.2  329.2  106.0
- 16-



*'  I          guug@g2g 
ii'~    E9        888o8 
I 
. _  g 8 8  S C | | E | | | M | | | | | | m | X~~~~~~~~~~I
.      _Esp        N    N  N  N  N  N  N,  N 
'I-EEES             E|f|fK 
Co                gg gg ggg 
8 ~ ~ ~ ~ ( 0  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N 



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year     Count      Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/92                         1   PROC
I    ECON
1    PGM
I    PGM
6    CONS
I    FNA
I    EGR
02/93                         1    EGR
I    FNA
Appraisal/Negotiation
09/93                         1    PGM
2    ECON
I    FNA
2    EGR
2    CONS
I    PROC
06/93                         1    EGR
I    PROC
12/93                         1   ECON
3    EGR
I    PGM
I    CONS
04/94                         1    CONS
06/94                         1    PGM
I    EGR
I    CONS
Supervision
S                 S
09/95                         1   FNA
I   PGO
04/96                         1   FNA                                 S                 S
I   PGO
I   OPA
- 18 -



10/96                         1   FNA                                 S                 S
I   OPA
I   PGO
06/97                         1   FNA                                 S                 S
1   OPA
2   EGR
I   PGO
10/97                         1   FNA                                 S                 S
I   ECO
1   OPA
3   EGR
05/98                         2   EGR                                 S                 S
I   CONS
03/99                         1   EGR                                 S                 S
2   PGM
I   FNA
12/99                         1   PGM                                 S                 U
1   EGR
I   FNA
I   DISB
ICR
08/00                         1    PGM                                S                 U
I    FNA
I    DISB
EGR          Engineer
FNA         Financial Analyst
PGM         Program Manager
PROC        Procurement Specialist
DISB       Disbursement
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              119.8                      326.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                   195.8                      634.1
Supervision                            220.9                       431.1
ICR                                    23.52                        26.6
Total                                 560.02                      1418.1
- 19-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
(Z Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Z Sector Policies                     O H OSUOM * N O NA
F Physical                            O H OSUOM * N        O NA
N Financial                           O H OSUOM * N O NA
F Institutional Development           0 H O SU O M * N 0 NA
OEnvironmental                        O H *SUOM O N O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM       O N * NA
Z Gender                        OH   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM O N O NA
F Private sector development          0 H O SU O M * N 0 NA
F Public sector management            0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS OS       *U     OHU
? Supervision                                       OHS IDS      OU    OHU
N Overall                                           OHS Os      * u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
I Preparation                                       OHS *s      Ou     O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O s    * U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                O HS * s     0 U    0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       * u   O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 7A:   Implementation Completion Mission: Aide Memoire
Annex 7B:   Borrower's Evaluation
Annex 7C:   Borrower's Comments on Bank's Implementation Completion Report
Annex 7D:   Status of Compliance with Covenants
Annex 7E:   Financial Tables of GTCL and SGFL
- 22 -



Annex 7A. Implementation Completion Mission (August 2-10, 2000)
Aide Memoire
An implementation completion mission for the Gas Infrastructure Development Project (GIDP, Cr.2720-
BD) was carried out from August 2 to 10, 2000 by Messrs. A.S.M. Bashirul Huq (Senior Energy
Specialist), Mohammad Sayeed (Disbursement Officer) and K.M. Zubair Sadeque (Consultant). This
Aide Memoire summarizes the findings and recommendations of the mission, and is subject to review
and confirmation by IDA management. The mission would like to express its sincere appreciation to
Chairman and other officials of Petrobangla; Managing Director and other officials of Gas Transmission
Company Ltd (GTCL); and the project personnel of Sylhet Gas Fields Limited (SGFL) for their
cooperation and productive discussions during its visit.
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Implementation Status
A credit of SDR 83.4 million (US$ 120.8 million equivalent) was approved by the Bank on May 9, 1995
for GIDP. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Project Agreements (PA) were signed on
May 24, 1995 and the Credit was declared effective on June 22, 1995. Total financing required for the
project was US$ 171.7 million. Along with the IDA credit, Department for International Development
(DFID) - the former Overseas Development Association (ODA), UK, supported the Project with a US$
26.9 million equivalent grant. The balance of the financing was to be provided by the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB). The final cost estimate of the project is provided at Annex 1. The project included
five main components:
(a) Gas supply - a 58-km 30-inch diameter pipeline from Ashuganj to Bakhrabad;
(b) Gas production - three production wells at Rashidpur Gas Field;
(c) Gas Processing Plant to purify gas from the new wells;
(d)  Grid Control - a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and pipeline
telecommunication system for the entire transmission trunkline from Kailashtilla to
Chittagong and integration with existing facilities; and
(e)  Technical Assistance consisting of:
(i)   project implementation support through consulting services to prepare designs and
bid documents, assist in bid evaluation and provide construction
supervision/management for the components listed in (a), (b), (c) and (d) above;
(ii)  institution building assistance through consultancy and management services to
develop GTCL's managerial and technical capabilities, establish a group-wide
environmental and safety management system, strengthen reservoir management
and improve Petrobangla group's management information systems; and
(iii) training of Petrobangla staff in key aspects of gas sector operations.
All components of physical work included in the project, except the SCADA, have been completed. The
Ashuganj-Bakhrabad (A-B) pipeline was successfully constructed and has been in operation since May
23



1997. However, gas flow through the pipeline is very low at present because of capacity constraints in
the up-stream North-South pipeline. Drilling of Wells 5, 6 and 7 and a gas processing plant at Rashidpur
have been completed with success resulting in an addition of 90MMCFD capacity to SGFL's production
capability. However, due to capacity constraints in North-South pipeline, these wells cannot be put into
production. The mission was informed by GTCL that they have awarded a contract to a China-
Bangladesh joint venture company (Daquin-Summit) for the construction of a 54-km 30-inch loopline
along the Habiganj-Ashuganj section of the North-South pipeline at a very competitive cost of about
US$23 million. This section of the loopline is expected to be completed by early FY2001. Once this
loopline is completed, it will remove the capacity constraints in the North-South pipeline.
There appears to be a serious problem in completion of SCADA. The contractor, Granger Telecom of
UK, selected in accordance with DFHD guidelines, became bankrupt before completing its contractual
obligation, and has left the site. Completion of this component is now uncertain - only 17 out of 70
points of communication have been connected. DFID is negotiating with a subcontractor to complete the
remaining works. During discussions with the mission, GTCL officials expressed their concern that if
the component is not implemented in full, they will not have the capability to accurately monitor and
control all transmission parameters throughout the transmission network, which is of prime importance
in operating an open-access gas transmission network.
The technical assistance components have not been completed satisfactorily - in particular the Training
component remained unimplemented and the Reservoir Management Assistance component was only
partially implemented. With respect to training, this has been the result of bureaucratic bottlenecks in
granting necessary approvals - it took over 8 months for obtaining Government approval. Furthermore,
selection of training institute was considerably delayed which ultimately caused this very important
capacity building component to be left unimplemented. Appointment of consultant for the reservoir
management assistance program was delayed by over a year due to disagreements over tax obligations.
The contract with the consultant was finally signed in April 1999 and the consultants commenced work
in June 1999. The consultant is currently working against an advance payment. The borrower will have
to look for alternative sources of financing for completing this work.
The credit closed on its original closing date of June 30, 2000. Significant savings in the project
components resulted in a cancellation of SDR 29.0 mnillion equivalent on March 27, 2000. Although
agreed in principle by the Bank, Borrower's proposal for support of the Gas Transmission to West Zone
by restructuring of the project for utilization of the savings could not be implemented because of non-
fulfillment of the conditions precedent to restructuring (namely transfer of transmission pipelines to
GTCL and compliance of the beneficiaries with the financial covenants). Further, GOB's request for
extension of the closing date to enable the beneficiaries to implement the two important technical
assistance components, viz., the Reservoir Management Assistance and Training, was not conceded inter
alia in view of lack of commitment to redress the financial condition of Petrobangla.
Second Round Bidding
In order to encourage private sector participation in the gas sector, the Bank supported GOB's pre-bid
Round Table Conferences with International Oil Companies (IOCs) in March-April 1997 in London and
Houston. As 8 blocks in the country were already under contract, the remaining 15 blocks were offered
for bids in a second round. The offering was well received as 37 bids were made for 12 blocks by 12
companies of 11 countries. The Bank also supported Petrobangla by financing a consultant to assist in
the evaluation of bids, which was completed in December 1997. However, no blocks were awarded for
two years; only recently, PSC for block 7 was concluded with UNOCAL; for blocks 5 and 10 were
initialed with Shell; and for blocks 20 and 21 were initialed with Maersk. Negotiations for the remaining
blocks are still continuing. Under the agreement with UNOCAL, work will not start unless gas market is
24



available and the contract will automatically terminate if no market is found within 5 years. The PSC
initialed with Shell requires them to carry out geological and geophysical (G&G) surveys, but actual
exploration will depend on gas market availability. There is no such condition in PSC with Maersk but
they will also wait and see if gas market is available after carrying out surveys in the first two years.
Disbursement
As of August 21, 2000 SDR 48.19 million (equivalent to US$67.04 million) have been disbursed under
the Credit. The Closing Date for the Credit was June 30, 2000. In accordance with IDA procedures,
withdrawal applications against eligible expenditures incurred prior to the closing date will be
considered until October 31, 2000. Under the Credit, US$2,000,000 has been disbursed as advance to
the Special Account. Of this amount, US$ 977,438.31 remains to be adjusted/refunded to IDA. Unless
this amount is adjusted/refunded, no application for direct payment from the Credit account will be
entertained. Since time is running out, the mission urges the authorities to complete formalities for
refund/adjustment of US$977,438.31 at the earliest - this will enable submission of direct payment
applications against eligible expenditures ahead of October 31, 2000. The disbursement profile appears
at Annex 2.
B. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Audit
There have been serious delays in submission of the audited accounts of Petrobangla and two other
beneficiaries of the credit, GTCL and SGFL. The Bank had stressed many times the importance of
timely submission of audited accounts with limited results. The FY99 audited accounts of GTCL were
submitted in June 2000 and those of SGFL in May 2000. Petrobangla's audited accounts for FY99 were
submitted only in August 2000, i.e. 7 months late. Major financial issues linked to the transfer of
transmission pipelines to GTCL and to the absence of a financial framework for the treatment of IOC gas
which have resulted in delays in closing of books of GTCL and Petrobangla respectively. SGFL, on the
other hand, did not have any apparent reason for delaying the submission of its audited accounts.
Compliance with Financial Covenants
A detailed statement of compliance with covenants is provided at Annex 3 and the financial statements
of GTCL and SGFL appear at Annex 4. GTCL agreed to earn an 8 percent Rate of Return (ROR) on
Assets in FY99 and 10 percent thereafter - GTCL earned only 5.4 percent in FY99 and 6.1 percent in
FY2000 (based on provisional accounts). Accounts receivable were not to exceed 3 months of sales
equivalent - GTCL's accounts receivables were 4.6 and 4.9 months equivalent in FY99 and FY2000
respectively. GTCL's Debt:equity ratio stands at 69:31 against a covenanted target of 60:40. GTCL is
therefore non-compliant with all the three financial covenants. SGFL, failed to comply with accounts
receivable covenant in FY99 and FY2000. The Bank has urged the authorities for a long time to adjust
gas tariffs to enable GTCL comply with the financial covenants; gas tariff were increased by 15 percent
in December 1998 and a further similar increase has been announced effective September 1, 2000.
However these adjustments were designed to address the losses arising from transactions with IOCs so
that they did not necessarily benefit GTCL and SGFL. It is to be noted that even the most recent
adjustment will not suffice to cover the deficit so that Petrobangla will continue to incur losses on IOC
gas.
25



Operations Plan
The mission discussed with the borrower the necessity for an Operations Plan for the operational phase
of the project. While certain components have been completed (A-B Pipeline, three production wells
and surface facilities at Rashidpur), the satisfactory achievement of others is now uncertain (SCADA
Telecom, Training and Reservoir Management). The beneficiaries need to prepare a plan as to how to
implement those components given the fact that the IDA credit has already closed. The plan should
indicate the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project components and the performance
indicators to be used to monitor future operation and development impact. The operations plan ought to
be submitted to IDA by September 15, 2000.
Implementation Completion Report
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared for the project in accordance with IDA
guidelines. The authorities are to prepare an Evaluation Report on the Project which will be integrated
in the ICR. A letter was sent to the borrower on June 26, 2000 with a request to complete its part of the
Evaluation Report by mid-September 2000. The mission discussed the information required for the
report, and Petrobangla confirmed that it will do its utmost to prepare its evaluation on a timely basis.
List of Annexes
Annex 1      Project Cost Estimate - modified to Annex 7A of ICR
Annex 2      Disbursement Profile - omitted from ICR
Annex 3      Status of Compliance with Covenants - modified to Annex 7D of ICR
Annex 4      Financial Tables- modified to Annex 7E of ICR
26



Annex 7B. Borrower's Evaluation
A. Introduction
A credit of SDR 83.4 million (US$ 120.8 million) was approved by the Bank on 09 May 1995 for Gas
Infrastructure Development Project (GIDP, IDA Credit 2720-BD). The Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) and the Project Agreement (PA) for the project were signed on 24 May 1995 and the Credit was
declared effective on 22 June 1995. Along with the IDA Credit, Department for International
Development (DFID)-the former Overseas Development Association (ODA) of UK, supported the project
with a US$ 26.9 million equivalent grant. The closing date of the credit was 30 June 2000.
B. Project Objectives
The objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report were:
(i)  to alleviate worsening gas supply shortages through partially financing the sector's priority
investments;
(ii) to assist GOB in implementing further reforms to improve the enabling environment for private
sector participation in the sector; and
(iii) to develop the sector entities' institutional capabilities, particularly in the areas of operations and
maintenance, safety, environmental protection and accounting and financial management.
C. Project Components
In order to achieve the above objectives the modified/revised project works included the following
components:
For Gas Transmission Co. Ltd. (GTCL):
(i)  Construction of a 58 km, 30-inch diameter high-pressure cross-country gas pipeline from Ashuganj
to Bakhrabad;
(ii)  Establishment of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and pipeline
telecommunication system for the entire transmission trunk line from Kailashtilla to Chittagong;
and
(iii) Provision of technical assistance to GTCL for the preparation of designs and bid documents, and
assistance in bid evaluation and construction supervision and the development of GTCL's
institutional capabilities.
For Sylhet Gas Fields Co. Ltd. (SGFL):
(i)  Development of three productions wells at Rashidpur gas field;
(ii)  Construction of a gas dehydration plant to purify gas from the new wells; and
(iii) Provision of technical assistance to SGFL for the preparation of designs and bid documents, and
assistance in bid evaluation and construction supervision.
For Petrobangla:
The provision of institution-building assistance to the Petrobangla group for:
27



(i)   the establishment of an environmental and safety management system;
(ii)  the upgrading of the group's accounting systems and management information systems;
(iii)  strengthen reservoir management; and
(iv)   staff training in gas sector operations.
D. Project Design
Ashuganj-Bakhrabad Pipeline: To transport gas from the northern fields of Rashidpur, Habiganj and
Kailashtilla to the gas-deficient southeastern region, construction of 58-km 30-inch A-B pipeline was
needed on an urgent basis because of depletion of production of Bakhrabad field, the main source for
supplying gas to the Chittagong zone. The A-B pipeline was to link North-South and Bakhrabad-
Chittagong pipelines. It was to have an initial flow of 200 MMCFD. The large diameter was chosen
considering future increase in the line's capacity (up to 1000 MMCFD) through compression, which is
expected to be required at a later stage. To prevent pipeline floating during the monsoon season, concrete
weight coating was applied to the entire length of the pipeline.
SCADA and Telecommunication System: Under Second Gas Development Project (SGDP) financed by
IDA, there was a provision for installing a complete SCADA and Telecommunication system on the
North-South pipeline along with a load dispatch center. But due to delays in pipeline construction and
subsequent credit closing, the SCADA could not be installed. The existing gas transmission and
distribution networks have been operating independently with microwave radio links supplemented by
telephone facilities and are dependent on voice-communication only. After completion of the A-B
pipeline, which runs from Kailashtilla in the northwest to Chittagong in the southeast, requires a complete
SCADA system with dispatch center and telecommunication link. This would allow accurate monitoring
and control of all transmission parameters such as gas flows at supply and offtake points, current line
pressures throughout the network, movement of gas and condensate volumes, and quality of gas being
supplied to the system by the producing companies. Furthermore, the SCADA would provide pipeline
integrity monitoring, leak detection and alarm, metering values of gas and condensate at each of the inlet
and outlet points, open-closed status of all main-line and station valves, direct digital data transmission
and voice communication. To allow data transmission, the microwave analog radio system of the
Bakhrabad-Chittagong pipeline needed to be upgraded (digitized) to match the new system.
Development of Rashidpur Gas Field: The Rashidpur gas field located about 80-km northeast of
Ashuganj was discovered in 1960. In 1989, two appraisal wells (later completed as production wells)
were drilled and workover of two existing wells was carried out under the SGDP financed by IDA. To
meet the impending gas supply shortfall, development of Rashidpur field was one of the three primary
sources for capacity addition (the other two being Habiganj and Kailashtilla). After a careful field-by-
field review, taking into account reserve, gas availability, infrastructure requirements, and construction
lead time this component was included in the project. The three wells drilled at Rashidpur would, produce
622 BCF of gas and 149,000 tons of condensate over a 20-year period, as well as data to firm up reserve
estimation for the field. A single-train, 90 MMCFD capacity silica gel plant was included in the project to
dehydrate and process gas from the new wells.
Technical Assistance provided under the Project
Project Implementation Support: In view of the current limitations of SGFL and GTCL, project
engineering and implementation support consultancy services were provided by resident experts. These
experts assisted in preparation of component specifications, engineering design and bidding documents,
bid evaluation, contract execution and construction supervision. Altogether, some 300 consultant-months
28



of expatriate consultants' services was provided over the project implementation period. To ensure
transfer of know-how through active participation in the above tasks, terms of reference for the above
consultancies included counterpart-training requirements.
Twinning (GTCL): To assist the newly formed GTCL in establishing appropriate organization structure
and management systems and building up its capability commensurate with the operation of a modem gas
utility, broad-based technical and management support was required. The project financed a twinning
arrangement between GTCL and a mature foreign gas operating entity. It was intended that the twinning
partner identify itself fully with the needs of GTCL and provide GTCL with continuing services, advice
and experienced personnel over a number of years to the point where GTCL can independently and
efficiently carry out its operations. To enhance the effectiveness of twinning in the transfer of managerial
and technical skills and systems, the proposed twinning anticipated a direct operational involvement of
the foreign partner through placing a team of expatriate personnel into line management positions who
together with GTCL' s top management, had joint responsibility for overseeing day-to-day operations and
implementation of systems, procedures and practices.
Environmental and Safety Management System: Given that the Petrobangla group had no well-defined
safety engineering standards and environmental regulation, nor did it have an adequate institutional
framework and capability to properly administer the safety and environmental aspects of its operations,
technical assistance was provided to help it (a) develop adequate safety standards and environmental
protection rules for its entire operations, and (b) implement a group-wide environmental and safety
management system.
Management System Improvement Program: To improve the timeliness and accuracy of financial
reporting for better operational control and planning, a Management System Improvement Program
(MSIP) was included in the project. The MSIP provided for the group-wide implementation of (i)
improvements in accounting and financial policies and procedures, (ii) improvements in the management
information systems; (iii) a program of computerization; and (iv) a related program of staff training.
Reservoir Management Assistance: This component had an objective of developing a reservoir
management system in Petrobangla and its Operating Companies comprising of consulatncy services,
procurement of equipment/facilities, field studies and training.
Training Program: To develop the technical and management capabilities of Petrobangla and its
Operating Companies personnel in order to improve the operational and efficiency and overall
performance of the gas sector, a program providing for a total of 300 man-month of training program in
the field of exploration, well drilling & completion, gas processes, gas transmission, project management
functional management etc was included in the project.
E. Project Implementation
Ashuganj-Bakhrabad pipeline: The construction of 58 km long 30 inch diameter Ashuganj-Bakhrabad
pipeline was completed and was commissioned on 09 May 1997. Gas is flowing through this pipeline.
GTCL Twinning: For operationalisation of GTCL as a commercially viable national gas transmission
company, the Consultant of the project had commenced project works from June 1996 and thus project
was completed in June 1999 successfully. Some 20 professionals of GTCL worked with consultant and
participated in the training/ technology transfer covering, inte ralia, Measurement, Cathodic Protection,
Operation and Maintenance, Pipeline Design which would be very useful for the company's operation
and maintenance work. After completion of the twinning program assignment completion report was
provided to IDA in May 1999.
29



Drilling Component: The drilling of three wells (RP # 5, 6 & 7) at Rashidpur Gas Field has been
successfully completed. The consultant submitted the completion report of wells Rashidpur nos. 5, 6 & 7
of the project. Accordingly, drilling & third party services crews were released for their respective de-
mobilization.
Surface Facilities: The Turnkey EPC contractor started the construction work of 90 MMSCFD Silica gel
gas processing plant and Gathering line at Rashidpur gas Field on January 1999. After completion of the
mechanical installation, the plant had been Pre-commissioned with effect from 31 December 1999.
During Pre-commission certain defects/deficiencies had been observed. The contractor rectified all the
major defects and repeated Pre-commissioning run from 19 March 2000 to 26 March 2000 as per Terms
and Conditions of the contract. The contractor conducted uninterrupted 7 days Commissioning and
Acceptance Test successfully and handed over the plant to SGFL on 10 April 2000.
SCADA and Telecommunication: Contract agreement was signed on 21 May 1998 with the contractor
and was effected from 30 June 1998. The works accomplished by the contractor within June 2000 are
mentioned below:
* Foundation of ACC/MCC (2 nos.), Foundation of Tower (5 nos.), RTU (60 nos.) and Monopole
Bases (45 nos.), Refurbishment of existing Radio Rooms (9 nos.) completed;
* 60 nos. RTU Installed and 27 nos. energized;
* Instrumentation work completed 66 Nos. out of 70 Nos.;
* Replacement of Microwave Radio Equipment, Installation of Telemetry Equipment, VHF Trunking,
Antennas, Feeder Cables in Southern Leg (comprising 9 stations) completed. All Civil Works for
MCC, ACC, New Radio Rooms (7 nos.), Generator Building;
 Commissioning and establishment of the Digital Microwave Links from MCC to Chittagong i.e.
Southern leg;
* Microwave Tower erection (5 nos.) and fixing of Antennas, Feeder Cables in Northern Leg
completed;
* Installations of Air Coolers at MCC and ACC; and
* Interface of Master Trunking Switch (MTX) at MCC with Regional Trunking Switch at Demra and
Comilla.
Pre-Commissioning and Commissioning Activities
*  13 Nos. RTUs pre-commissioned;
* Upgradation of Mobile Hand-held radios from Factory configuration to Site Configuration; and
* Telemetry radio and link test of core RTUs with MCC.
This project is being implemented out of DFID grant and was scheduled for completion by December
1999, followed by two years Operation and Maintenance (O&M) support and training. Up to June 2000,
over 80 percent of the physical work of the project has been completed but due to financial insolvency of
the Main Contractor and their dispute with main Sub-Contractor, there exists a stalemate towards
completion of the project. In order to secure investment already made and make the system operational,
DFID's intervention to overcome the current impasse has already been sought. Following the departure of
contractor's personnel, meanwhile, the Performance Guarantee (PG) has been encashed amounting to
GBP 1,537,160.00 (10 percent of contract price) and was deposited to the GTCL's account on 13th August
2000 and subsequently Termination Letter was issued to the contractor on 17 August 2000 as per
suggestions given by the consultant and DFID. Alternative arrangement is being examined to complete
the remaining works by engaging the main sub-contractor under agreed terms to be approved by GOB and
DFID.
30



Environment and Safety Management System: Consultancy contract was signed with the consultant on
8 May 1996. Consultants' works of the project commenced from 18 January 1997 and completed on 30
June 2000. The works performed under the project are as follows:
*  All the man-month for foreign specialists as well as the Local Consultants stipulated in the contract
have been utilized fully;
*  The foreign training of 31 persons out of 32 persons have been made and 1 (one) person could not
attend the training course due to illness;
*  Supply of Project equipment/material under foreign purchase made only about 20 percent and for
local purchase made up to 98 percent in terms of value;
*  The Consultants have already submitted the Final Draft Report and it is now under review by
Petrobangla and its subsidiary companies, Department of Environment (DOE) and the Directorate of
Explosives. It is expected to get the Final Report from the consultants by October 2000 after
incorporation of the comments/opinion from the beneficiaries if there is any; and
*  The Training Courses conducted both in Local & in Foreign are stated below:
Fields                              No. of     Duration
Trainees
Overseas Study /Overseas Training
*   Study Course on Environmental science                       2       1 Year
*  Environmental Impact Assessment, Data Acquisition &          4       8 Weeks
Development of Monitoring and Mitigation Plan.
*  Safety and Environmental Management, Audits & Emergency      4       12 Weeks
Planning & Emergency Response.
*  Risk Management, Hazop Study and Process Safety Management   4       10 Weeks
*  Ground Water and waste Management                            4       4Weeks
*  Land Management                                              2       4 Weeks
*   Corrosion control and Cathodic Protection Management, Routine
Test Procedures and Trouble Shooting Technique.              4       8 Weeks
In-Country Training
*   Introduction to Environmental Aspects of Gas Sector         15      3 Weeks
*  Environmental Planning and Auditing Program                  15      4 Weeks
*   Environmental Consideration on Gas Production Technology    6       3 Weeks
*   Transmission & Distribution Pipeline Technology              8      3 Weeks
*  Drilling & Production Engineering                            5       3 Weeks
*  Safety Assessment, Hazop Study and Risk Analysis             10      4 Weeks
*  Computer Courses on Data Acquisition & Management            6       4 Weeks
Overseas Study Tours
*  Project and Program Management on Environment and Safety Issues  4   4 Weeks
*  Attend Seminar Symposium & Congress on Environment and Safety  4     2 Weeks
Related on Oil & Gas Safety.
31



Management system Improvement Program: This component was financed by the co-financier DFID
(erstwhile ODA). A consultancy contract was signed on October 1995. Thereafter consultants made an
assessment of current accounting and financial systems of all the companies under Petrobangla and
submitted their reports in due course. Based on the assessment, a corporate accounting manual was
prepared, cost centers for all the companies were identified, key performance indicators were established,
corporate internal audit manual was developed and methods for reclassifying the fixed assets along with
the uniform method and rate of depreciation were identified. Besides, organizational structure of
Petroleum Concession Division along with role description of PSC team and training needs were
ascertained; against which four week training course on PSC was conducted by the consultant. A number
of training courses on MSIP Awareness, new charts of accounts, reclassification of fixed assets, fixed
asset management, financial system acceptance and users training were conducted locally.
Award of Contact was signed on 8t November, 1998 with the preferred supplier for supply and
installation of computer based financial system for Petrobangla group. The contractor was mobilized on
time. The supply and installation of the system in 14 sites of 7 companies have been progressing and
expected to be completed by October 2000. It is expected that the residual works of the project may be
completed in all respect within the closing date of the project, i.e. 3 1t December 2000.
Reservoir Management : This TA project started in January 1996. Engagement of consultant took a long
time both due to various delays made by the World Bank system and also in the process of revising the
TAPP and negotiating with the consultant. Contract was signed on 13 April 1999 for a total duration of 24
months and IDA concurrence on the signed contract was received on 9 June 1999. The consultant started
works from 16 June 1999 and submitted the Draft Inception Report to Petrobangla on 27 October 1999,
which was approved on 15 December 1999 by Petrobangla and IDA. Parts of the project works completed
within June 2000(loan closing date) are as follows:
* About 17 man-months consultancy services have been utilized;
* Preparations of bidding document for procurement of equipment, hardware, software and training
have been completed;
* Production & field data collection of some fields have been completed;
* About 75 percent of primary evaluation works on Habiganj and Bakhrabad gas fields have been
completed; and
* Evaluation of bids for Data Recovery from Sticky Seismic and Log Tape has been completed.
In order to complete the remaining work under this component, one-year extension of loan closing was
sought to IDA. Though IDA review mission recommended to extend the credit closing date for the
'reservoir management' component by one year up to 30 June 2001, the World Bank in its letter of 06
February 2000 has informed of its inability to do so. This implies a serious impediment in implementing
this 'core project' with IDA finance after 30 June 2000.
Training Program: A comprehensive training manual was prepared by the Bangladesh University of
Engineering and Technology (BUET) that took about a year. According to that manual, a TAPP
comprising of training for 315 personnel of 410 man-month (both local and foreign) was prepared on
February 1998 which was approved by the Government on 19 November 1998. A press notice for short-
listing of internationally reputed training institutions was published in the four national dailies as well as
UNDB publication. Within the deadline for submission of proposal i.e. 21 December 1998, 34 numbers of
proposals were received. The evaluation was completed by 12 April 1999 and 6 (six) top ranked training
institutions were short-listed which were approved by the Petrobangla Board and the World Bank. The
Request For Proposal (RFP) was sent to the short listed bidders on 16 September 1999. Out of 6 short-
listed firms, 5 firms submitted their technical and financial proposal within the bid submission deadline
i.e. 24 October 1999. Evaluation of technical proposals was completed and was approved by both
32



Petrobangla Board and the World Bank. While approving the Technical Evaluation Report it was decided
by the Petrobangla Board that because of shortage of time, closing date of IDA credit should be extended
for one year and that should be confirmed by the World Bank before opening of Financial Bids.
Petrobangla requested the World Bank for extension of loan closing date for one year. But the World
Bank in its letter of 06 February 2000 informed Petrobangla that they are unable to extend loan closing
date, though Supervision Mission of IDA recommended for extension of loan closing date. Thus the
project remains unimplemented.
F. Operational Experience
A-B Pipeline: Overall operation experience of this component is satisfactory. Since the commissioning,
A-B Pipeline is running smoothly and all the installations associated with the pipeline are working
satisfactorily and no technical difficulties arose during operation. The objective of the project was
partially fulfilled i.e. supplying of gas to the Chittagong zone was possible with sufficient amount for a
few years. With starting production of Sangu gas field and also of Saldanadi and Meghna gas field and
due to limitation of North-South pipeline, A-B pipeline is now flowed through reduced rate. But this
situation will be changed when construction of Habiganj-Ashuganj transmission pipeline of 54 Km, 30"
dia (a portion of Rashidpur-Ashuganj loop line of 82 Km, 30" dia) which include the provision for
upgradation of Ashuganj RMS, will be completed. Then supply of gas at Ashuganj point will be
increased substantially and thereby gas will flow through the Ashuganj-Bakhrabad pipeline at a higher
rate for supplying gas to the AES-Haripur and AES-Meghnaghat power plants being implemented under
Independent Power Policy.
Development of Rashidpur Gas Field: Drilling of three new wells was completed satisfactorily at
Rashidpur gas fields, which increases the gas production capacity of SGFL. M A silicagel process plant of
90 MMCFD capacity was also completed satisfactorily though during commissioning some problems
were encountered and were removed. With the completion of drilling of 3 wells and associated surface
facilities, the Rashidpur field is ready for production of about 90 MMCFD. But at present excess gas
could not be supplied due to pressure matching problem of North-South Pipeline which is being operated
at its design capacity. On completion of Habiganj-Ashuganj pipeline, it will be possible to carry entire
gas of Rashidpur field to Ashuganj to feed A-B Pipeline. Moreover, installation of a 500 bbl per day
capacity Condensate fractionation Plant is being implemented at Rashidpur in order to produce petroleum
products by fractionating the condensate to be produced from wells drilled in this field under the credit.
Twinning: After completing the project, the guideline, manual and recommendations made by the
consultant is being followed by the GTCL and the company is operating efficiently and independently.
Reservoir management: Since the project is partially completed and subsequent IDA's non-agreement to
extend the loan closing, an altemate source of funding is being examined to complete the remaining
works of this vital component.
MSIP: All financial and accounting systems of Petrobangla & its companies are now being integrated
under computer systems installed under this TA component financed by DFID. The system is functioning
properly and are relevant in fulfilling the objective of this component.
ESMS: All safety issues are now looked into through the newly formed Environment and Safety Division
of Petrobangla in coordination with all Operating Companies. Moreover, gas safety rules are being
prepared with the help of experience gained through the project and recommendations/suggestions
prepared/made by the consultant. The in-depth exposure to environmental and safety issues is drawing
benefits to Petrobangla and its companies.
33



Training Program: The fate of this important component for institutional building of gas sector is now
in a stage of uncertainty. Although the World Bank pointed out several times about its importance, no
eclectic approach was observed from them for funding. On the other hand, no alternate source of
financing could be arranged as yet.
G. Evaluation of Borrowers own Performance
Land acquisition and Right of way is a necessary element for implementing project like pipeline
construction, drilling and surface facilities. Resistance/obstacle from landowners were experienced in
land acquisition, therefore, it needs to have legal bindings and support so that easy land acquisition is
possible. However, the problems of land acquisition for construction of A-B Pipeline were reduced to a
substantial level by involving the local-level administration that included the Union and Thana Parishad
(the base-level socio-political units). Public Consultative Commnittee was formed to listen to the lands-
owner and to convince them about the national importance of the project. Due considerations were given
to their lawful demand for compensation. Non-government organizations, those had been working in rural
areas, were also involved. The involvement of the non-government organizations showed good results.
At the project preparation stage such as preparation of PCP, PP, TAPP and approval thereof by proper
authority, it was experienced that sometimes it took longer time than scheduled. Also faulty preparation
of PPITAPP required further revision thereof, which ultimately causes delay of the project
implementation. Efficiency of a Project Manager also influences the performance of the project. Although
the government monitoring process specified the maximum allowable time limits at all relevant levels for
processing of any proposal, still there remains the inherent delay tendency that are sometimes
unavoidable.
Physical works of the project sometimes are affected due to delay in engagement of consultants and
contractor, which affect project implementation of the project. Performance of consultant and contractor
also affect the overall implementation of the project.
Natural calamities like flood, rain, storm etc. also affect the project implementation and so systematic
planning and foresigtness should be applied in during project design and drawing-up of implementation
schedule to avoid such calamities. Logistic supports are another important factor in the implementation of
the project. It requires good planning in tendering, procurement, evaluation and shipment. Delays in the
approval of procurement and customs clearance also affect the timely completion of the project.
Performance of the Contractor and Consultant affected the completion of SCADA component. Consultant
and Contractor were appointed with due approval of DFID. But due to financial insolvency of the
Contractor and subsequent abandonment of the work by them caused a stalemate of project and
completion of outstanding works are still uncertain. Arrangements are being made for proper maintenance
of the sophisticated equipment/instrument already installed by the Contractor prior to the termination of
contract with the Contractor and completion of the remaining works. But action to protect the already
installed equipment and completion of remaining works by separate arrangement may involve additional
fund. As such, the engagement of Consultants and the Contractors for specialized work should be done
carefully.
Engagement of consultant for ESMS component was delayed due to getting approval from government
authorities and also from IDA and subsequent delays in placement of consultant and selection of training
institution which causes delay in execution of the project. Moreover, revision of TAPP were required two
times for incorporating RPA provision and consultant's income tax which were not included in the
original TAPP. Revision of TAPP also affects the implementation of the project.
34



No single entity is absolutely responsible for the failure to complete the Reservoir Management
component within the loan validity. All levels involved at IDA, Borrower and the executing agency had
laps at different stages and at different point of time. Engagement of consultant was delayed by more than
one year due to procedure of World Bank and also from borrower side. Approval of TAPP took longer
time. To resolve the taxation problem of consultant it was further delayed and revision of TAPP were
needed.
Regarding failure of training program component it was observed that BUET took a longer time to
prepare comprehensive training manual which could have been avoided had Petrobangla assessed its own
training rather than giving it to BUET. Appointment of Project Manager and providing of logistic
supports were delayed. About 8 months required for approval of TAPP that caused further delay.
H. Evaluation of Performance of Bank and Co-financier
During the course of the project implementation, a good and effective bond of relationship has been
established between the World Bank and Petrobangla and its companies. Over the time the mutual
understanding has been strengthened and cordial working relationship has been developed between the
sides. It is expected that this relation will continue in future and World Bank is urged to continue to
extend their assistance in further development of gas sector.
Out of total credit equivalent to US$ 120.8 million for all components of the Project, only about US$
67.04 million has been disbursed by the Bank leaving a significant amount of savings, which otherwise
signifies over-estimation at the time of Project Appraisal.
All the components financed by IDA have been completed satisfactorily except Reservoir Management
and Training component. Since the consultant was engaged for 24 months with necessary approval from
IDA for Reservoir Management Study, IDA's reluctant to support the completion the project prompts to
believe that IDA failed to recognize that the Reservoir Management Study is the vital component for
Petrobangla and the Government.
In any aided project some covenants was imposed by the donor prior to or during implementation of the
project. Though some of these covenant are necessary for the benefit of the sector but some times it is
difficult to fulfill it properly because of the social, economic and political reasons prevailed in the
country. The World Bank has given assurance on mid 1997 to allocate funds from savings of the A-B
pipeline to Gas Supply to Western Zone through restructuring of GIDP with fulfilling the pre-condition,
i.e. (i) all high pressure transmission pipelines to be handed over to GTCL, and (ii) increase of gas tariff.
Accordingly the Bakhrabad-Demra pipeline was handed over to GTCL and gas price was also increased
at 15 percent with effect from December 1998. But finally restructuring of GIDP was not done by the
World Bank.
In some areas, World Bank took long time for their concurrence/approval regarding approval of bid
document, bid evaluation, appointment of consultant and contractor which affects overall implementation
of the project.
As co-financier, DFID financed SCADA and MSIP components of the Project. DFID had a catalytic role
for successful implementation of both the components. The termination of Contract following
abandonment of the works by the contractor was initiated by GTCL in accordance with the advice of
DFID and the Consultant. Repeated intervention of DFID for contractor's payments to overcome their
financial crisis could not ultimately bring meaningful conclusion with the contractor, who has abandoned
the project even after completion of about 80 per cent works. Now GTCL is moving hard for completing
the remaining works and protection of already installed equipment by engaging another contractor. In
35



this situation GTCL is working along its consultant for a solution by engaging the main Sub-contractor as
suggested by DFID for completion of the remaining works.
I. Operation Plans
Component of GIDP         Present Operational Status              Future Operational Plan
Ashuganj-Bakhrabad  The pipeline is being utilized at a partial  Full capacity utilization is dependent on
Pipeline            capacity (only to carry 20-30 MMSCFD).  construction of Rashidpur-Ashuganj Loop line,
part of which is now being constructed (Habiganj-
Ashuganj 30"x 54-km Pipeline) that will provide
scope to flow more gas by A-B Pipeline.
Twinning (GTCL)     GTCL is functioning satisfactorily. At  All other major transmission line will be
Present North-South Pipeline,       transferred to GTCL gradually after reviewing
Bakhrabad-Demra Pipeline, Elengla-  and assessing the technical and financial impact
Baghabari Pipeline over Bangabandhu  for such transfer.
Jamuna Bridge is operated by GTCL.
Drilling and Surface  The wells are producing and process  The production from the wells drilled will provide
facilities at       plant is operating satisfactorily to feed  data base to form the basis for resource
Rashidpur Gas Field  gas to North-South Pipeline built under  assessment as well as supplying gas to load
Second Gas Development Project.     centers. Condensate produced at the field is now
sold to oil marketing companies under BPC and a
fractionation plant is now being installed to
produce MS, HSD and SKO.
SCADA-              Only about 80 per cent works is      Efforts are underway to complete the work within
Telecommunication   completed and the Contractor has     next couple of months by engaging another
abandoned the project. All measures have  contractor (preferably the Sub-Contractor) as
been taken including encashment of  suggested by DFID, the co-financier.
Performance Guarantee.
Environment and      All Safety issues relating to the gas  This is a continued process and will be followed
Safety Management   sector is being looked upon by ESD of  in future as is being followed at present by
Systems (ESMS)      Petrobangla with coordinates of its OCs.  Petrobangla and its companies.
Management System    All project activities is supposed to be  The Software and the Hardware installed by the
Improvement         completed by December 2000. On       Contractor and the operating personnel are being
Program (MSIP)       completion of the project it is expected  trained, the program would be continued with
that all accounting and financial   upgradation from time to time as needed.
statement/reports will be produced in
timely and accurately for itself and in a
consolidated form for the group
companies by using computer system.
Reservoir           This component of the Project is partially  The results of the Study will be utilized and
Management Study    complete and altemate funding is now  resource management database will be created,
being searched since the closing of the  which is considered as prime important for
credit was not extended for another year.  operating gas fields.
Training Program    The whole exercise for engagement of  Alternate sources of finance will be explored for
reputed intemational training institutions  completion of the program.
could not be made meaningful because of
non-extension of credit closing.
36



Annex 7C. Borrower's Comments and Observations on Bank's ICR
These comments and observations are made on the part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
prepared by the World Bank (WB) on the Gas Infrastructure Development Project (GIDP), implemented
by Petrobangla and its companies. While examining the various sections of the ICR, it is observed that the
performance ratings assigned to different activities are based on information/analysis, not necessarily
relevant to the implementation of project components. The ICR has been organized by providing the
Principal Performance Ratings followed by discussions, information and analysis at various sections. A
consolidated statement of the stated Performance Ratings is annexed with comments, wherever
applicable, and in addition important sections' highlights are given in the subsequent paragraphs.
Original Project Objectives: Out of the three, one objective has been recorded and identified to be
important and references of which have been made to many places in the text. The said objective relates
to the implementation of the reforms to improve the enabling environment for private sector participation
in the sector. The project components do not contain any such provisions and no program/allocations
were also made except inclusion, at a later stage, a small amount for engagement of consultants for
assisting evaluation of offers of the Second Round of exploration licensing. As such references to the
non-fulfillment and/or implications for attaining success in respect of outcome of the project
implementation should be omitted.
Alleviation of Gas Supply Shortage: This was one of the major objectives of the project. In achieving
this objective, programs included (a) construction of a 58-km 30-inch transmission pipeline, (b) drilling
and completion of three wells at Rashidpur gas field, and (c) installation of a gas process plant at
Rashidpur gas field. All these three components have been implemented successfully with substantial
savings as against the cost estimates prepared during appraisal. While the implementing authorities
deserve compliment for successful completion of these components, the ICR is very critical about the
final outcome of these components. The statement ".... Rashidpur wells are not currently under
production" is not based on facts. Gas is being producing from these wells and processed at the process
plant installed under the project. WB also opined that the A-B pipeline is operating at a partial capacity.
Based on these observations, the ICR reads "In all, Bangladesh was able to overcome the gas shortage
which prevailed in the early 1990's through the rapid development of gas reserves by foreign oil
companies. As a result, the Bank-financed components of the Project, while useful in the long term, were
developed prematurely. Under the circumstances, the outcome of this component is rated unsatisfactory".
Indeed such rating is based on inadequate information. For understanding it may be noted that (a) the
presence of IOCs and commercial finds of gas in Sangu and Jalalabad prior to the stage of undertaking the
project could not be predicted for reasons of inherent uncertainties in exploration, (b) A-B pipeline
supplies gas to Chittagong at present in addition to the gas supply from Sangu, and (c) A-B pipeline will
shortly be source for supplying gas resulting from the project under reference to major power plants being
installed in Haripur and Meghnaghat areas. As such the Bank's rating needs to be corrected as
"Satisfactory" and facts should be recorded accordingly.
Improve Enabling Environment for Private Sector: As stated earlier, no provisions were included in
the project components for creating enabling environment for private sector participation. The reference
to the proposal for utilization of significant savings under the credit for pipeline construction to supply
gas to the western region on completion of Bangabandhu Jamuna Bridge and imposition of certain
conditions, at a later date, in the name of reforms seems not to be directly related to the Project
implementation. It may be mentioned that had the proposed pipeline not been constructed from the
government's own resources then supply of gas to power plants (including private sector power plant) on
the other bank of Jamuna would not be possible. In fact the Bank missed a golden opportunity of
providing assistance to a component like the gas supply to western zone through the Bangabandhu Bridge
37



which would open new areas for gas utilization especially in the private sector. As such, the statement
"Under the circumstances, and given that little progress was made in the essential areas requires for
private sector participation ...... ... is rated "Highly Unsatisfactory" is not relevant in the context of the
project scope and project implementation, which calls for appropriately re-phrasing the entire section.
Develop Institutional Capabilities: There were five activities viz. (a) Strengthening of GTCL through a
twinning program, (b) Management System Improvement Program -MSIP, (c) Environment and Safety
Management System-ESMS, (d) Local & Foreign training, and (e) Reservoir Management Assistance
program. Out of these five activities, first three have been implemented successfully. The Reservoir
Management Assistance program could not be completed because of non-extension of the credit closing
by the Bank when the consultant was fielded on approval of the WB and spent substantial man-month in
the process. Only training program could not be implemented because of the same reason of non-
extension of credit closing date although selection of training institution was finalized after travelling
through a long-way. As such, the rating for this component may be reconsidered and revised as P'artially
satisfactory' instead of rating it 'Unsatisfactory'.
Output of A-B Pipeline: As stated in (3) above that the output of the A-B pipeline deserves to be rated as
satisfactory since this pipeline is also a source for supplying gas to Titas Franchise areas including Power
Plants being installed in Haripur and Meghnaghat region under IPPs.
Output of SCADA and Telecommunication System: Since this component is still under
implementation and DFID (the financing authority) is actively working with GTCL, it appears to be
premature for rating as unsuccessful based on delay in transferring of high pressure transmission pipeline
to GTCL although major trunk-pipelines are under their control. In the meantime, Petrobangla Board has
approved the transfer of Ashuganj-Elenga high-pressure transmission pipeline to GTCL.
Drilling of Three Wells and Installation of Gas Processing Plant at Rashidpur: The statement "the
wells are not currently producing on account of pipeline constraints" is not based on facts. As explained
above (Paragraph-3), the opinion needs to be reconsidered and revised. It may be noted that the
production and processing of gas from this field had opened the scope for installation of a Condensate
fractionation plant to get MS, HSD etc.
Factor generally subject to implementing agency control: The observations made do not relate to
project execution. The general flow of skilled and unskilled manpower is a global trend. Moreover,
companies under Petrobangla do have experience of nearly four decades of drilling of wells, operations
and maintenance of gas fields. As such the statement "... since talented staff left the entity for jobs with
lOCs. This in effect, further reduced the institutional capacity of Petrobangla to deal with the contractual
arrangement the Project entails, and explains some of the shortcomings in Project execution." appears
not based on the actual position. In fact, none of the Project components suffered due to the absence of
staff as stated.
Costs and financing: Huge savings of US$ 36.9 million against the appraisal estimate of US$ 171.7
million indicates over estimation, which should not be explained as the outcome of early initiation of the
procurement process and the award of turnkey contracts through transparent ICBs. It should be the over
estimation at the appraisal stage.
Sustainability: When it is stated that "Petrobangla and its affiliates are capable of operating the pipeline
and produce/treat natural gas, so that no major difficulties should be anticipated in this respect", then the
rating of Project's sustainability as "Highly Unlikely" seems to be not well judged. The physical
infrastructure developed under the project is becoming even inadequate to meet the gas demand indeed.
Petrobangla and its companies are adequately experienced for the operation of gas wells, maintenance &
38



work-over, and operation & maintenance of process plants and pipelines. Therefore, it is not rationale to
doubt the capability for smooth operation and maintenance of the facilities built under the Project.
However, creation of enabling environment for private sector participation and strengthening financial
conditions of Petrobangla and its companies may be looked into separately and should not form the basis
for rating Project's sustainability. Moreover, these were not considered at the time of project
design/formulation/appraisal. So any cautionary signal to that effect will be encouraging for the sector as
a whole, not in an isolated manner.
Bank's Supervision mission: Fielding of missions from time to time during Project implementation is
always considered helpful and necessary. But the recommendations of supervision missions, in many vital
issues of the Project, did not yield any results as because of the missions were not considered and
accepted by the Bank. If the Bank could have paid any importance to the recommendations of supervision
missions, then two TA components, i.e. Reservoir Management and Training, would have received
Bank's consideration by way of extending the credit closing for completion of these two important
components. As such, a reference to supervision mission's suggestions and recommnendations for reforms
prior to restructuring of Project only should not have been taken into consideration in isolation. Such
approach by the IDA headquarter indicates parochial attitude of the authority concerned.
Based on the above comments and observations, it is suggested that the ICR prepared by the Bank as
presented now should be reviewed in the light of the comments prior to finalization of the same.
39



GIDP-ICR
PERFORMANCE RATING VIS-A-VIS
COMMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS OF PETROBANGLA
Rating by World           Comments and Observations
Areas considered                           Bank
shown in ICR                   by Petrobangla
1.  Quality at Entry                         Unsatisfactory        No comment
2.  Alleviate Gas Supply Shortage            Unsatisfactory
5| .'  3.  Improve Enabling Environment for Private  Highly Unsatisfactory  There was no such component in the project.
Sector                                                         As such rating does not apply (Ref. Text
s O  _                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paragraph-4)
4.  Financial Objectives and Compliance with  Showed concern        No comment
Covenants
5.  A-B Pipeline                             Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory. This pipeline is now considered
as a major source for gas supply to power
plants being installed under IPPs in Titas
- _                                                                 areas.
e    6.   SCADA Telecommunication                  Highly Unsatisfactory  This component is yet to complete. The
0                                                                        stated reasons should not be the ground to
-   _________________ __________________declare  Unsatisfactory.
c     7.  Drilling of Three Wells at Rashidpur     Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory, since these wells are producing
D    _                                                                   gas.
8.   Gas Processing Plant at Rashidpur        Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory, since process plant is now in
0S    ________________________________________                           operation.
O     9.  Technical Assistance:
9.1  Project Implementation Support    Satisfactory          No comment
9.2  Institution Building:
e                -  Assistance to GTCL             Highly Satisfactory   No comment
A)               -  Environment and Safety         Satisfactory          No comment
Management Program
-  Reservoir Management           Highly Unsatisfactory  Not agreed. Text Paragraph-5 may be seen.
-  Improvement of Group           Satisfactory          No comment
Management System (MSIP)
________  9.3  Training                        Highly Unsatisfactory  Text Paragraph-5 may be seen.
I   Sustainability:
0.
10.1  Project's Sustainability          Highly                Inadequate reasons cited cannot form the
c                                                  Unlikely              basis for such rating.
10.2  Transition arrangement            Showed                Not factual since Petrobangla & its
CO               to regular operations             concern               companies have experiences of nearly four-
decades. (Ref. Text Paragraph-l I)
I   Bank:
)     1.
11.1 I  Lending                         Unsatisfactory        No comment
11.2  Supervision                       Satisfactory          Text Paragraph- 12 may be seen.
11.3  Overall Bank Performance          Unsatisfactory        No comment
c     I   Borrower:
3    2.
o          12.1  Preparation                       Satisfactory          No comment
o          12.2  Government Implementation         Unsatisfactory        No comment
Performance
12.3  Implementation Agency             Satisfactory          No comment
12.4  Overall Borrower                  Unsatisfactory        No comment
Performance
40



Annex 7D. Status of Compliance with Covenants
Agreement       Section    Covenant    Status    Original    Revised                  Description of Covenant                           Comments
Type              Fulfill Date   Fulfill
Date
DCA             3.04(a)      5          CP        Ongoing                 Each year the Borrower to fumish to IDA the findings and  The Financial Action Plan submitted by
recommendations of an annual review of (i) Project  GOB on June 1999 was not
progress, (ii) financial performance of GTCL and SGFL,  implemented. The recent tariff increase
(iii) implementation of the gas sector's Priority Investment  of 15 percent effective from September
Program (PIP), and (iv) progress made in carrying out  2000 is not adequate to cover the losses
reforms in the sector.                              due to purchase of gas from the
International Oil Companies (lOCs).
DCA             3.04(d)      9          C         03/31/97    10/97       The Borrower to carry out comprehensive mid-term review.  Done
DCA             4.01(b)(i)   1          C         12/31/00                The Borrower to have records and accounts audited each  Audited accounts for FY00 not yet due.
4.01(b)(ii)  I                   (FYOO)                  fiscal year for all expenditures made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOE) , and the special account
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and furnish the
audit six months after end of each fiscal year along with a
separate opinion by auditors.
DCA             4.02 (a)     2          C         Ongoing                 The Borrower to ensure that the gas operating companies  The price deficit fund created for making
have sufficient internally generated funds to meet operating  payment to lOCs is not sufficient to pay
expenses and debt service requirements, maintain an  the lOCs.
adequate working capital position, and with the exception
of GTCL, self-finance a minimum of 20-30% of their
respective investment programs.
DCA             4.02 (b)     2          Soon      Ongoing                 The Borrower to review with IDA prior to the start of the  A 15% tariff increase was effective from
fiscal year the margins allowed to the gas operating  September 1, 2000 although decision on
companies for the fiscal year.                      margin of gas companies is yet to be
taken.
DCA             4.03         2          CP        Ongoing                 The Borrower to review with IDA prior to the start of the  There is a Five Year Plan for the Energy
fiscal year the gas sector's PIP and its implementation in the  Sector.
current fiscal year, as well as the implementation plan for
the three succeeding fiscal years.
DCA             4.04         2          Soon      12/31/95                The Borrower to carry out a joint review with IDA and  The final report has been submitted to
other donors of GOB's action program for strengthening the  MEMR for formal approval. GOB's
institutional and regulatory frameworks for the     formal approval is still awaited. Action
petroleum/gas sector.                               on regulatory framework is underway.
41



Agreement       Section    Covenant    Status    Original    Revised                  Description of Covenant             |             Comments
Type              Fulfill Date  Fulfill
Date     _     __                                      _
DCA             4.05         2          NC        Ongoing     -           The Borrower to carry out a program, satisfactory to IDA,  Arrears were unacceptably high and no
to clear public sector consumers' arrears for gas and  special recovery drive has been taken to
condensate supplied by the gas operating companies.  date.
Project         2.06(a)       10        C         10/01/95    05/5/96     Prepare and furnish to IDA proposals for twinning   GASCOR completed its assignment and
(GTCL)                                                                    arrangements between GTCL and established foreign gas  submitted its final report in May, 1999.
company providing for sustained technical and managerial
support from such company to GTCL over a number of
years.
Project         2.06 (b)     10         C         11/30/95    06/6/96     Enter into such arrangements with said company as shall  GASCOR contract has been
(GTCL)                                                                    have been agreed upon.                             implemented successfully.
Project         3.03          13        C         12/31/95    -           GTCL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,  All assets are insured with the State
(GTCL)                                                                    or make other provision satisfactory to IDA, insurance  General Insurance Corporation.
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
Project         4.01(b)(i)    I         CD        12/31/00                GTCL to have its records, accounts and financial statements  Audited Accounts for FY00 not yet due.
(GTCL)          4.01(b)(ii)                      (FY00)                   audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors and to
submit to IDA these audited reports within six months after
the end of each fiscal year.
Project         4.02(a)      2          NC        Ongoing                 GTCL to earn an annual return on the average current value  GTCL's ROR for FY99 is 5.4%.
(GTCL)                                                                    of GTCL's net fixed assets in operation of not less than: 4%  Provisional figures for FY2000 show an
in FY95, 6% in FY96, 6% in FY97, 7% in FY98, 8% in  ROR of 6.1%.
FY99, and 10% thereafter.
Project         4.02(b)&(c)  2          NC        Ongoing                 Before the beginning of each FY, GTCL shall, on the basis  Unless GTCL's wheeling charges are
(GTCL)                                                                    of forecasts prepared, review whether it would meet the  revised, it's financial conditions are not
requirements set forth above, in respect of such fiscal year  going to improve. GTCL also needs to
and the next following fiscal year and fumish IDA the  take special recovery drive to bring down
results of such a review upon its completion. If such review  its arrears.
shows the requirements set would not be met, promptly take
all necessary measures to meet requirements.
Project         4.03         2          NC       Ongoing                  GTCL shall maintain its accounts receivable at a level not  As of June 30, 2000, the accounts
(GTCL)                                                                    exceeding the equivalent of three months' billings.  receivable is equivalent to 4.9 months.
42



Agreement       Section     Covenant    Status   Original     Revised                  Description of Covenant                            Comments
T                Type              Fulfill Date   Fulfill
_ _   j  _         _         _     ]    _          Date
Project         4.04          2          NC       Ongoing                  GTCL shall not incur any debt, commencing FY95 if after  At the end of FY2000, this stands at
(GTCL)                                                                     the incurrance of such debt, the ratio of debt to equity shall  69:31 which improved from 74:26 of
be greater than 60 to 40.                            FY98.
Project         3.03          13         C        Ongoing                  SGFL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,  All assets are insured with the state
(SGFL)                                                                     or make other provision satisfactory to IDA, insurance  general insurance corporation.
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
Project         4.01 (b)(i)   1          CD        12/31/00                SGFL to have its records, accounts and financial statements  Audited Accounts for FY00 not yet due.
(SGFL)                                            FY00                     audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors and
fumish to IDA its annual audited reports within six months
of the end of each fiscal year.
Project         4.02(a)       2          C        Ongoing                  SGFL to eam, for each of its fixed years, commencing  SGFL's ROR for FY99 is 16.2% and
(SGFL)                                                                     FY95 an annual rate of return of not less than 15% on the  18.4% in FY2000 (based on provisional
average current value of SGFL's net fixed assets in  figures).
operation.
Project         4.02(b)(c)    2          C        Ongoing                  Before the beginning to each FY, SGFL shall, on the basis  SGFL is likely to continue to comply
(SGFL)                                                                     of forecasts prepared, review whether it would meet the  with ROR covenant in FY2001.
requirements set forth above, in respect of such fiscal year  However, its accounts receivable is
and the next following year and furnish IDA the results of  unacceptably high and special recovery
such a review upon its completion. If such review shows  drive is needed to bring down arrears.
the requirements set would not be met, promptly take all
necessary measures to meet requirements.
Project         4.03          2          NC       Ongoing                  SGFL to maintain its accounts receivable from the sale of  As of June 30, 2000, accounts receivable
(SFGL)                                                                     gas and condensates at a level not exceeding the equivalent  stands at 5.8 months of sales equivalent.
of three months' billings.
Project         4.04          2          C        Ongoing                  SGFL shall not incur any debt, commencing FY95 if after  At the end of FY 2000, the D/E ratio is
(SFGL)                                                                     the incurrence of such debt, the ratio of debt to equity shall  30:70.
be greater than 70 to 30.
Project         2.06          10         NC        10/01/95                Petrobangla to:
(Petrobangla)                                                              - implement detailed training program for Petrobangla  Training Program could not be
staff,                                             implemented due to delays in approval of
TAPP and selection of training institute.
43



Agreement       Section     Covenant    Status   Original     Revised                  Description of Covenant              1             Comments
Type              Fulfill Date   Fulfill
2.06          10         C        10/31/95                 - commence a program for the development and         With the help of Martech Int.
implementation of a group-wide environmental and   Environment Services, (USA), the
safety management system;                          program has been implemented
successfully.
2.06          10         C        10/31/95                 - implement a program for upgrading the Petrobangla  Work is at final stage of completion.
group's accounting systems and management information
systems.
Project         3.03          13         C        Ongoing                  Petrobangla shall take into account and maintain with  Petrobangla has the necessary insurance
(Petrobangla)                                                             responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to  coverage for all its major assets.
IDA, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Project         4.01(b)(i)    1          CD        12/31/00                Petrobangla to have its records and accounts and financial  Audited Accounts for FY00 not yet due.
(Petrobangla)                                     (FY00)                   statements audited for each fiscal year by independent
auditors and furnish to IDA certified copies of its annual
audited financial statements within six months after the end
of each fiscal year.
Key Covenant types:                                                                       Status:
1.      Accounts/audit                                                                    CD      Complied with after delay
2.      Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries                         NC       Not complied with
3.      Flow and utilization of project funds                                             SOON     Compliance expected in reasonably short time
4.      Counterpart funding                                                               CP       Complied with partially
5.      Management aspects of the project or executing agency                             NYD     Not yet due
6.      Environmental covenants
7.      Involuntary resettlement
8.      Indigenous people
9.      Monitoring, review and reporting
10.     Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9.
11.     Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12.     Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13.     Other
44



Annex 7E. Gas Transmission Company Limited
Income Statement
(in Tk million)
For Fiscal Year Ending June 30                    1995                      1996                       1997                      1998                       1999                   2000
Appraisal       Actual    Appraisal       Actual     Appraisal       Actual     Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal       Actual  Provisional
Operating Revenues:
Gaswheeled(bcf)                                  69           57           81           66           100           64           135           99          156          115          124
Wheeling Charges (Tk./mcf)                      6.2          6.2           6.8          6.2          7.5           6.2          8.6          6.2           9.4          6.2         6.2
Condensate wheeled (M.Lit)                                   -                           11                        36                         54                        42           90
Wheeling Charges (Tk./Litre)                                 0.50                      0.50                       0.50                      0.50                       0.50        0.50
Total Operating Revenue                     431          355           553          414          754          415         1,163          646         1,478          750         815
Operating Expenses:
Salaries & Wages                                8            3            9             7           10            9            12           20           13           27           33
Maintenance                                                  0           28             2           28            2           42            12           48            4            3
Administration                                 15           27           17            15           18           36           22            47           24           41           24
Depreciation                                  164          173          164           186          218          186          296           239          362          304          304
Other                                           2          -              2           -              2           -              3          -              3           -           -
Total Operating Expenses                      189          204          219           210          276          234          373           317          449          375          364
Operating Income                                243          150          334           204          478          181          790           328         1,029         375          451
Non-Operating Income                                           2                          4                         2                          2                        16            4
Interest Charges                                271          217          261          217           300          204          389           308          457          395          303
Foreign Exchange Losses                          49           -            50           128           57          148           100          269          120          268          283
Income beforeTax                                (77)         (65)          23          (138)         121         (169)         301          (247)         452         (272)        (131)
Provision of Additional Expenses                              -              I          -              6           -             15          -             23           -           -
Loss Carried Forward                            (52)                     (129)                      (106)
Income Tax                                                   -                          -              4           -            122          -            182           -           -
Net Income                                      (77)         (65)          22          (138)         111         (169)          164         (247)         247          (272)       (131)
Contribution to Development Fund                 28           -             35           38           47           29            67           26           83            12         149
Prior Year's Adjustments                                                                                           15                         13                        16          (3.9)
Retum on Net Fixed Assets (%)                  4.1%          2.8%         6.0%         3.9%         7.1%          3.6%         7.6%         5.5%          8.3%         5.4%        6.1%
45



Annex 7E. Gas Transmission Company Limited
Balance Sheet
(in Tk million)
For Fiscal Year Ended June 30     FY19!          1995                     1996                      1997                     1998                      1999                  2000
Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual    Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual  Provisional
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets in Use                  5,606        5,700        5,606       5,699        8,296        5,550        9,516        7,769       11,607       9,060       9,111
Less Accu. Depreciation                     236          225          399          414          617         586          912          816         1 274       1.456        l.760
Net Fixed Assets                           5,370        5,475       5,207        5,285        7,680        4,964        8,603        6,953       10,332       7,604       7,351
Capital Work-in-Progress                      375           47        2,262          942        1,080        2,180        2,101         531         1,387       2,036       2,737
Current Assets
Cash& Bank Balance                           78          295          180          417          175         271          240          299          290          294         299
Accounts Receivable (trade)                 108           69          138          111          189         116          291          145          370          290         331
Other Accounts Receivable                                184                       174                       95                       142                       316         895
Inventories                                  82           -            82            0          136         213          160          521          202          195         244
Advances &Prepayments                         2            2           11          177           15          77           30          438           24          115         360
Total Current Assets                         269          550         410          880          514          771          720        1,545          886        1,210       2,129
TOTAL ASSETS                                 6,014        6,072       7,879        7,107        9,274        7,915       11,424        9,029       12,605      10,850      12,216
Equity
GOB Equity & Grants                         2,352        2,176       2,895        2,251        3,313        2,333        3,848        2,668       4,163        3,750       4,037
Retained Earnings                           (129)        (119)        (106)        (256)           4         (420)        169          (654)        416         (910)      (1,045)
Contribution to Development Fund              28           -            63           38          110          67          176           92          259          104         254
Total Equity                                2,251        2,057        2,852       2,033        3,427        1,980        4,193        2,106       4,838        2,944       3,246
LongTermDebt                                 3,321        3,141       4,292        4,212        4,982        5,234        6,225        5,988        6,873       6,661       7,292
Current Liabilities
Bank Overdraft                                25                       300                      400                       450                       300
Accounts Payable                               3           13           18           43          25          156           49          153           41          302         838
Interest Payable                              68          862           65          820          75          545           97          553          114          713         599
Income Tax Payable                            -           -            -            -              I          -            30           -            46          -           -
Staff Profit Sharing Fund                     -           -              I          -             6          -             15           -            23          -
Current Portion of LTD                       346          -            351          -            358          -           365          229          371          229         241
Total Cufrent Liabilities                    442          875          736          863          865         701         1,007         935          895        1,244       1,677
TOTAL EQUITIES AND LIABILITIES               6,014        6,073       7,880        7,107        9,274        7,915       11,424        9,029       12,605      10,849      12,216
Current Ratio (times)                          0.6          0.6         0.6          1.0          0.6          1.1          0.7          1.7          1.0         1.0         1.3
Debt as a % of Debt & Equity                 59.6%        60.4%       60.1%        67.4%        59.2%        72.5%        59.8%        74.0%       58.7%        69.3%       69.2%
Accounts Receivable (months)                               2.3                       3.2                       3.4                       2.7                      4.6         4.9
46



Annex 7E. Gas Transmission Company Limited
Fund Flow Statement
(in Tk million)
For Fiscal Year Ending June 30     FY194           1995                     1996                       1997                      1998                       1999                   2000
Appraisal       Actual     Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal       Actual    Appraisal       Actual     Appraisal       Actual   Provisional
Sources
Internal Sources:
Op. Income                                     243          150          334           204          478          181          790           328         1,029         375          451
Depreciation                                   164          173           164          186          218          186          296           239          362          304          304
Non-Operating Income                           -              2           -              4          -              2           -              2           -            16            4
Contribution to Development Fund                28           -             35           38           47           29            67           26           S3           12          149
Intemal Cash Generation                        434          326          533           431          742          398         1,152          594         1,474         707          909
GOB Equity & Grants                            109         1,058         543            76          418           82          535           334          315          378          287
Prior Year's Adjustments                                                                                          15                         13                        16           (4)
Borrowings                                     255           84         1,268          952          975          840         1,498          999          881          673          631
Total Sources                                   799         1,468        2,344        1,459        2,135         1,335        3,185         1,941        2,669        1,774        1,824
Applications
Capital Expenditure                            365         1,021        1,811          862         1,393         983         2,140          403         1,258        1,766         701
Interest During Construction                    10            5            72           45          100          135            91           98          100           58          164
Total Investment                               375         1,026        1,883          907         1,493        1,118        2,231          501         1,358        1,824         865
Debt Service
Principal                                     -             -            346          -            351           -            358          525          365          229          229
Interest                                      271          217           261          217          300          204           389          308          457          406          713
Total Debt Service                            271           217          607          217          651           204          747           833          822          635         942
Income Tax                                     -             -            -            -              4           -            122          -            182           -
Workers' PPF                                   -             -              I          -              6           -             15          -             23
Dividend                                       -             -            -            -            -              9           -            -             -
Change in Working Capital:
Cash Less Bank Overdraft                       (4)         291           102          117           (5)        (211)           65           96           50           (35)          5
Non-Cash                                      158          (67)         (249)         220          (15)         200             6          511          234          (640)        378
Total Applications                             799         1,467        2,344        1,461        2,135         1,320        3,185         1,941        2,669        1,784       2,190
LongTermDebtServiceCoverage                      1.6          1.5          0.9          2.0           1.1          2.0          1.4           0.7          1.5          1.1          1.0
4 7



Annex 7L Sylhet Umited (SGFL)
Income Statements
(in Tk million)
For Fiscal Year ending June 30           1995                 1996                 1997                 1998                  1999              2000
Appraisal    Actual  Appraisal    Actual   Appraisal    Actual  Appraisal    Actual   Appraisal    Actual  Provisional
Average Revenue/MCF (Tk)             35.34      36.51      37.42     36.56      39.62      36.64     42.34      35.42      44.83      38.68     38.72
Average Revenue/MCF (US$)             0.88       0.91       0.91      0.89       0.93       0.86      0.94       0.79       0.94      0.81       0.77
Volume of Sales:
Gas(bcf)                              49.6       39.1       67.9      45.7       76.7       50.2      102.9      63.8      118.3        65        68
Condensate (million litre)            39.0       10.1       11.1      20.3       10.4       47.5       14.6      59.8       17.1        60        62
Gas Liquids (million litres)                               118.4       13.6     161.9        7.9     214.1       12.4      244.6        14        34
Sales Revenue:
Gas                                  1,753     1,428      2,541      1,671     3,039      1,839      4,357      2,260     5,303      2,511     2,651
Condensate/liquids                    504        288        700       449        933        564      1.297       815       1.55       811      1.072
Total Gross Revenue                 2,257     1,716      3,241      2,119     3,972      2,403      5,654      3,075     6,853      3,322     3,723
Excise:
Gas                                  1,444     1,184      2,076      1,386     2,463      1,526      3,469      1,864     4,185      2,107     2,200
Other Products                         55         38         16        49         15        150        21        182         24        111       168
Total Excise Duty                   1,498     1,222      2,092      1,435     2,478      1,676      3,489      2,045     4,209      2,218     2,369
Net Revenue                           759        494      1,149       684       1,495      727       2,165      1,030     2,644      1,104     1,354
Other Income                           20         22         20        27         20         36        20         33         20        47        49
Operating Expenses
Salaries & Wages                      33         24        37         26         40        44         44         52         49        34        60
Maintenance                           27          7        46          7         46         11        50         18         72        38        28
Administration                        40         42        44         54         48        68         53         83         59        84        95
Depreciation                         164        129       272        277        281        301       345        312        439       314       319
Other                                 13          2         14        14         15        47         17         71         19        65        65
Total Operating Expenses             277        204       413        378        431       471        509        535        637       536       567
Operating Income                      502        312       756        333      1,084       293       1,676       528      2,027       615       836
Interest Charges                      148         51       258         56        257        51        307         46        517        41        36
Losses from Foreign Exchange            3          7        57         32         56        49         85         41        141        25        35
Income Before Tax                     351        254       442        245        771        193      1,284       440      1,368       549       766
Provision of Additional Expenses       18         13        22         13         39         10        64         22         68        27        38
IncomeTax                             142         97        178        95        311        73        518        167        552       209       291
Net Income                            192        145       241        138        421        110       701        251        747       313       437
Contribution to Development Fund       19         20        28         18         34        23         50         29         61        16        -
Prior Year's Adjustments                         -                     23                  (87)                  118                  162        -
Return on Net Fixed Assets                     13.4%                 i O.G6                 7%                  14.5%                1 6.2%    18.4%
4 8



Annex 7E. Sylhet Gas Fields Limited (SGFL)
Balance Sheet
(in Tk million)
For Fiscal Year ended June 30                    1995                     1996                     1997                      1998                      1999                  2000
Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual    Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual  Provisional
Assets
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets in use                    4,633        2,952       4,633        4,574        4,986        4,866        7,212        4,855       12,733       5,720        6,913
Less: Accu. Depreciation                      305          495          537          766          777        1.114        1.082        1.352        1.481       1.613        1.931
Net Fixed Assets                             4,328        2,458       4,096        3,807        4,208        3,753        6,130        3,503       11,252       4,107        4,981
Capital Work-in-Progress                      212          517         1,405         550        3,471         556         4,606         606           38          449         151
Deferred Charges                              350           61          310          -            270          -           230           -           190          -            -
Current Assets
Cashand Bank Balances                         693          546          660          729          474         563          313          738          899          852        1,243
Accounts Receivable (trade)                    190         433          287          563          374         858          541         1,386         661        1,440        1,794
Accounts Receivable (intra group)                          (620)                      93                       72                        47                        36          42
Advances, Deposits and Prepayments             139         254          139          183          150         274          216          323          382          390         560
Stores and Spares                              20          106          114          190         226           155         307          405           77          283         396
Total Current Assets                         1,042         719         1,200       1,756        1,223        1,922        1,377        2,899        2,019       3,001        4,035
TOTAL ASSETS                                 5,932        3,754        7,010       6,114        9,172        6,231       12,342        7,008       13,498       7,557        9,168
Ecuity
GOB Equity                                   1,447        1,419        1,447       3,582        1,447        3,592        1,447        3,614        1,447       3,647        4,209
Retained Earnings                             689          591          931          691        1,351         597         2,053         771         2,800         977        1,413
Contribution to Development Fund                19          20           47           38           82           62          131          91           192         107         107
Total Equity                                 2,155        2,030        2,425       4,312        2,879        4,250        3,630        4,477        4,439       4,731        5,730
Long Term Debt                               3,350         955         4,076         898        5,628         925         7,885        1,134        8,259        1,539       2,388
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                13           12          48           22          147          200         211           141          85          126         198
Excise Duty Payable                                        348                       439                       379                       826                      632         518
Interest Payable                               37           -            65          146           64          107          77           54           129          11
Income Tax Payable                              35         386           45          275           78          348          130          337          138         378         291
Staff Profit Sharing                            18           13          22           13           39           10          64           22           68           27          38
Others                                                       9                        11                        14                        16                       20           5
Current Portion of LTD                        325           -           331          -            338          -           345                       380           92
Total Current Liabilities                     427          768          510          905          665        1,056          826        1,397         801         1,286       1,050
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                 5,931        3,753        7,011       6,114        9,172        6,231       12,342        7,007       13,498       7,557        9,168
Current Ratio (times)                          2.4          0.9          2.4          1.9         1.8          1.8          1.7          2.1          2.5         2.3          3.8
Debt as % of Debt and Equity                 60.9%        32.0%        62.7%       17.2%        66.2%        17.9%        68.5%        20.2%        65.0%       24.6%        29.4%
Accounts Receivable (months)                                3.0                      3.2                       4.3                       5.4                      5.2          5.8
49



Annex 7E. Sylhet Gas Fields Limited (SGFL)
Fund Flow Statement
(In Tk Million)
For Fiscal Year ending June 30
1995                      1996                      1997                       1998                       1999                  2000
Appraisal       Actual     Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal       Actual    Appraisal       Actual     Appraisal       Actual    Budgeted
Sources
Operating Income                                502          312          756           333        1,084          293         1,676          528         2,027         615          836
Depreciation                                    164          129          272           277          281          301          345           312          439          314          319
Contribution to Development Fund                 19           20           28            18           34           23           50            29           61           16          -
Internal Cash Generation                        685          462         1,056          628        1.398          617         2,070          868         2,527         946        1,155
GOB Equity & Grants                            1,296         -             -          2,164          -              9           -             22           -            33
Prior Year's Adjustments                                     -                           23                       (87)                       118                       162          -
Borrowings                                    3,182           23          998           115        1,817           87         2,474          242          574          406         849
Total Sources                                 5,163          485         2,055        2,930        3,215          627         4,544        1,251         3,101        1,547       2,003
Avolications
Capital Expenditure                           4,523           83         1,137        1,655        2,256          290         3,067          109          765          864        1,193
IDC                                               6                        53                        147                       251                        150
Debt Service
Principal                                       13           75          325            56          331           56          338            67          345           92          89
Interest                                       148           51          258            56          257           51          307           46           517          -            -
TotalDebtService                                161          126          583           112          587          107          645           114          862           92          89
IncomeTax                                       142           97          178            95          311           73          518           167          552          209         291
Staff Profit Sharing                             18           13           22            13           39           10           64            22           68           27          38
Contribution to National Exchequer                            20                         18                        23                         29                        16          -
Increase in Working Capital
Cash Less Bank Overdraft                        158          177          (33)          183         (185)        (166)        (162)          176          587          114         120
Non-Cash                                        156         (104)         115           718           61          180          161          460           115           99          99
Total Application                             5,163          411         2,055        2,793        3,215          517        4,545         1,077        3,101        1,421        1,831
Self Financing Ratio                                      532.8%                     -12.2%                    113.8%                     270.3%                     87.3%        81.0%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                     3.3           3.7          1.5          5.6          1.8          5.8           2.3          7.6          2.2         10.3         12.9
50



