Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2567 BD
(Third Amendment)
Third Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Jute Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 30, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2567 BD
(Third Amendment)
THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Jute Sector Adjustment Credit), dated February 25, 1994, (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into an Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement (Jute Sector Adjustment Credit), dated June 6, 1994, 
(Amending Agreement) for the
purpose of providing additional assistance in the financing of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. The last clause of Whereas (A) of the Preamble is amended to read 
as follows:
", and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof;"
Section 1.02. Paragraph (a) of Section 1.01 is amended to read as follows:
"(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";"
Section 1.03. The following paragraphs are added at the end of Section 1.01:
"(d) Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(e)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.";
(f)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; and
 
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.".
Section 1.04. The references to paragraphs 4 (A) and (B) of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement in Section 1.02 (n), and (o), respectively, are replaced 
by references to Section 2.02 (d) (A), and (d) (B), respectively.
Section 1.05. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
replacing "SDR 40,000,000" by "SDR 42,000,000" in Subsection (o); substituting "; and" 
for "." at the end of Sub-
section (p); and adding a new Subsection (q) as follows:
"(q)  'Third Amending Agreement' means the Third Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Jute Sector Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated February 25, 1994."
Section 1.06. The following subsection is added at the end of Section 1.02:
"(r) 'Deposit Account' means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) 
of this Agreement.".
Section 1.07. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
seventy-nine million four hundred ten thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
179,410,000) (the Credit), which includes an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy-five million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 175,000,000), and an additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million four hundred ten thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 2,410,000) (the Additional Financing) and a further additional amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
Page  3
2,000,000) (the Third Additional Financing)."
Section 1.08. Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and 
thereafter maintain in Bangladesh Bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the 
Credit 
Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the  Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawal shall be made out of the:
 
(A)  Category (A) Proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the 
Category A Proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the 
total amount of such commitments shall have reached: (a) the equivalent of SDR 
35,000,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the macroeconomic policy framework 
of the Borrower is consistent with the Program; (ii) with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (iii) that 
the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken; and (b) 
thereafter, the equivalent of SDR 85,000,000, unless the Association shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:  (i) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the Program; 
(ii) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
have 
been taken; and
(B)  Category B Proceeds of the Credit unless the Association shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the Program; 
(ii) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
have 
been taken.
(e)
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph (d) above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Program or that the actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall have not achieved progress or taken 
actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
(f)
After a date twelve months from the date of this Third Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made out of the proceeds of the Third Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Third Additional Financing from the 
Credit Account or any part thereof and reduce the amounts set forth in paragraph (d) 
(B) hereof by such canceled amount."
Section 1.09. A further proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"and that any commitment charge on the Third Additional Financing shall 
accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Third Amending Agreement."
Section 1.10. Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
Page  4
"Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the date of the Association's request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested.".
Section 1.11. Section 3.03 is deleted.
Section 1.12. Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment 1 to this 
Third Amending Agreement.
Section 1.13. Schedule 2 is deleted and Schedules 3, 4 and 5 are renumbered as 
Schedules 2, 3 and 4, respectively with each title modified to read:  "Actions 
Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)
A (a) (iii), 2.02 (d) A (b) (iii) and 2.02 (d) B (iii), respectively, of this 
Agreement."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Third Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Third Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Third Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Third Amending Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Third Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of effectiveness 
of this Third Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Third Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Third Amending Agreement, 
this Third Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section. If this Third Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in 
full force and effect, as if this Third Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Third Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ M. Swaleheen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
Attachment 1
"SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
 expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under a loan or another credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
SITC, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
     Group          Subgroup       Description of Items
     112               -           Alcoholic beverages
     121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                   refuse
     122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                   not containing tobacco substitutes)
     525               -           Radioactive and associated materials
     667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                   stones, unworked or worked
     718            718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                                   fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                   irradiated, for nuclear reactors
     728            728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
     897            897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                   group metals (except watches and
                                   watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                   silversmiths' wares (including set
                                   gems)
     971               -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                   ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods. For purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Page  6
