Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2720 BD
Project Agreement
(Gas Infrastructure Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GAS TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED
Dated May 24, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2720 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
        AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and GAS TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED (GTCL).
        WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eighty-three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
83,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that GTCL agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
        (B)    by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and GTCL, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to GTCL on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
        WHEREAS GTCL, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
        Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
        Section 2.01. GTCL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out its part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and operational 
safety practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its part of the Project.
        Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
        Section 2.03. GTCL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of its Project Agreement and its part of the 
Project.
        Section 2.04. GTCL shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GTCL shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
        Section 2.05. (a) GTCL shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of its part of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
        (b)    GTCL shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its part of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GTCL of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
        Section 2.06. GTCL shall:
        (a)    prepare and furnish to the Association for its approval not later than 
October 1, 1995 or such other date as the Association may otherwise agree, proposals 
for twinning arrangement between GTCL and an established foreign gas company providing 
for sustained technical and managerial support from such company to GTCL over a number 
of years; and
        (b)    thereafter enter into such arrangements with said company as shall have 
been agreed upon.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GTCL
        Section 3.01. GTCL shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and safety 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
        Section 3.02. GTCL shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and safety practices.
        Section 3.03. GTCL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
        Section 4.01. (a) GTCL shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Page  3
        (b)    GTCL shall:
               (i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
              (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, certified copies of its financial statements for such 
year as so audited and the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
             (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
        Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GTCL shall 
earn an annual return on the average current value of GTCL's net fixed assets in 
operation of not less than 4% for fiscal year 1995, 6% for fiscal years 1996 and 1997, 
7% for fiscal year 1998, 8% for fiscal year 1999, and 10% for fiscal year 2000 and 
thereafter.
        (b)    Before the beginning of each fiscal year GTCL shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by GTCL and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such 
review upon its completion.
        (c)    If any such review shows that GTCL would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for GTCL's fiscal years covered by such review, GTCL shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
        (d)    For the purposes of this Section:
               (i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing GTCL's net 
operating income for the fiscal year in question by the 
average of the current value of GTCL's net fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal 
year.
              (ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating 
revenues less total operating expenses.
             (iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
              (iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and 
provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis or other 
basis acceptable to the Association, but excluding interest 
and other charges on debt.
               (v)
The current value of GTCL's gross fixed assets in operation 
means the gross value of GTCL's fixed assets in operation, 
as valued from time to time in accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to 
the Association.
              (vi)
The term "current value of GTCL's net fixed assets in 
operation" means the gross value of GTCL's fixed assets in 
operation less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as 
valued from time to time in accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to 
the Association. 
        Section 4.03. GTCL shall maintain its accounts receivable at a level not 
Page  4
exceeding the equivalent of three months' billings.
        Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GTCL shall, 
commencing in fiscal year 1995, not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such 
debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 60 to 40.
        (b)    For the purposes of this Section:
               (i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of GTCL maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
              (ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such 
debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on the 
date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
             (iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired 
paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of GTCL not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
              (iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of 
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
        Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
        Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
GTCL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
               (i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
              (ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
        (b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify GTCL of this event.
        Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
        Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
        For the Association:
               International Development Association
Page  5
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America
               Cable address:                      Telex:
                      INDEVAS                        197688 (TRT),
                      Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA),
                                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                                      82987 (FTCC)
        For Gas Transmission Company Limited:
               Gas Transmission Company Limited
               Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Bhaban
               (15th Floor)
               8, Rajuk Avenue
               Dhaka-1000
                                                   Telex:
                                                   632213 PIU BJ
        Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of GTCL, may be 
taken or executed by the Secretary to the Board of GTCL or such other person or 
persons as GTCL shall designate in writing, and GTCL shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
        Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
                     GAS TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED
                     By /s/ K.M. Ejazul Huq
Authorized Representative
