Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2720 BD 
Project Agreement
(Gas Infrastructure Development Project)
between
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PETROBANGLA
Dated  May 24, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2720 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
        AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and Petrobangla.
        WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eighty-three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
83,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that Petrobangla agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
        (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Petrobangla, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to Petrobangla on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
        WHEREAS Petrobangla, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
        Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
        Section 2.01. Petrobangla declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out its part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
and operational safety practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its part 
of the Project.
        Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
        Section 2.03. Petrobangla shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its Project Agreement 
and its part of the Project.
        Section 2.04. Petrobangla shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Petrobangla shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
        Section 2.05. (a) Petrobangla shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of its part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
        (b)   Petrobangla shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its part of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Petrobangla of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
        Section 2.06. Petrobangla shall commence by October 1, 1995:
        (a)   the implementation of a detailed training program, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the Petrobangla group's staff;
        (b)   a program satisfactory to the Association for the development and 
implementation of a group-wide environmental and safety management system; and
        (c)   the implementation of a program satisfactory to the Association for the 
upgrading of the Petrobangla group's accounting systems and management information 
systems.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Petrobangla
        Section 3.01. Petrobangla shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, and gas development 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
        Section 3.02. Petrobangla shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and safety practices.
        Section 3.03. Petrobangla shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Financial Covenants
        Section 4.01. (a) Petrobangla shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
        (b)   Petrobangla shall:
              (i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
             (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
            (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
        Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
        Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Petrobangla thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
      (ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
        (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Petrobangla of this event.
        Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
        Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
        For the Association:
              International Development Association
              1818 H Street, N.W.
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              United States of America
              Cable address:                 Telex:
Page  4
                   INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
        For Petrobangla:
              "Petrocentre" 3 Kawran Bazar C/A.
              Dhaka-1215,
              Bangladesh
              Cable address:                 Telex:
                   PETROBANGLA               642765 HNXN BJ
        Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Petrobangla, 
may be taken or executed by the Secretary of the Board of Petrobangla or such other 
person or persons as Petrobangla shall designate in writing, and Petrobangla shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
        Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
                   PETROBANGLA
                   By /s/ K. M. Ejazul Huq
Authorized Representative
