Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2567 BD
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Jute Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 6, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2567 BD
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).  
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Jute Sector Adjustment Credit), dated February 25, 1994, (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
replacing "SDR 135,000,000" by "SDR 137,410,000" in Sub-section (n); deleting the 
"and" at the end of Subsection (n); substituting "; and" for "." at the end of 
Subsection (o); and adding a new Subsection (p) as follows:
"(p) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Jute Sector Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated February 25, 1994."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
seventy-seven million four hundred ten thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
177,410,000) (the Credit), which includes an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy-five million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 175,000,000), and an additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million four hundred ten thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 2,410,000) (the Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by: (i) replacing "SDR 35,000,000" by "SDR 37,410,000" in subparagraph A (a); 
and (ii) replacing "SDR 85,000,000" by "SDR 87,410,000 in subparagraph A (b).
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"6.  After a date twelve months from the date of this Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered 
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. 
At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit 
Account or any part thereof and reduce the amounts set forth in each of 
paragraphs 4 (A) (a) and 4 (A) (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement by such cancelled amount."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of effectiveness of 
the Development Credit Agreement, or notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, whichever is later.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Page  3
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and  effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
               By /s/ Hamayun Kabir
Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
