Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2720 BD 
Development Credit Agreement
(Gas Infrastructure Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 24, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2720 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
        AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1995, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
        WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
        (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by Gas Transmission Company 
Limited (GTCL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to GTCL part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement;
        (C)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by Sylhet Gas Fields Limited 
(SGFL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to SGFL part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement;
        (D)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by Petrobangla with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Petrobangla part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement;
        (E)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Overseas Development 
Administration (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount equivalent to $18,240,000 
(eighteen million two hundred forty thousand pounds sterling) to assist in financing 
part of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ODA Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ODA; and
Page  2
        WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL Project Agreements of 
even date herewith between the Association and Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL, 
respectively;
         NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
        Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
        Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
        (a)   "Petrobangla" means the Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation 
established under the Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation Ordinance, 1985 of 
the Borrower (Ordinance No. XXI of 1985) as amended in 1989;
        (b)   "Petrobangla Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and Petrobangla of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Petrobangla Project Agreement;
        (c)   "Petrobangla Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Petrobangla pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Petrobangla Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
        (d)   "GTCL" means Gas Transmission Company Limited, a company operating under 
the Borrower's Companies Act of 1994; 
        (e)   "GTCL Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
GTCL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the GTCL Project Agreement;
        (f)   "GTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and GTCL pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
GTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
        (g)   "SGFL" means Sylhet Gas Fields Limited, a company operating under the 
Borrower's Companies Act of 1994;
        (h)   "SGFL Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
SGFL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the SGFL Project Agreement;
        (i)   "SGFL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SGFL pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
SGFL Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
        (j)   "Gas Operating Companies" means the Bangladesh Gas Fields Company 
Limited, Sylhet Gas Fields Limited, Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution Company, 
Bakhrabad Gas Systems Limited, Jalalabad Gas Transmission and Distribution Company and 
Gas Transmission Company Limited, all operating under the Borrower's Companies Act of 
1994;
        (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
        (l)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following calendar year.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-three million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 83,400,000).
        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
        (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
        Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
        (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
        Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
        Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
        Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2005 and ending November 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2014, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
        (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
Page  4
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
        (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
        Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
        Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the respective Project Agreement all the obligations of Petrobangla, 
GTCL and SGFL therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
        (b)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit to 
Petrobangla under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Petrobangla, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association which shall include the following:
              (i)
interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at the rate of 8% 
per annum;
             (ii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of fifteen 
years, including a grace period of five years; and
            (iii)
the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by Petrobangla.
 
        (c)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit to GTCL 
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and GTCL, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which 
shall include the following:
              (i)
interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at the rate of 8% 
per annum;
             (ii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of fifteen 
years, including a grace period of five years; and
            (iii)
the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by GTCL.
 
        (d)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit to SGFL 
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SGFL, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which 
shall include the following:
              (i)
interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at the rate of 8% 
per annum;
             (ii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of fifteen 
years, including a grace period of five years; and
            (iii)
the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by SGFL.
 
        (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Petrobangla, GTCL and 
SGFL Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any 
provision thereof.
Page  5
        Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
        Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
their respective part of the Project shall be carried out by Petrobangla, GTCL and 
SGFL pursuant to Section 2.03 of the respective Project Agreement.
        Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
        (a)   annually carry out a review of (i) the progress of the Project, (ii) the 
financial performance of GTCL and SGFL, (iii) implementation of the gas sector's 
Priority Investment Program, and (iv) the Borrower's progress in carrying out further 
reforms in the sector;
        (b)   promptly after its completion, furnish to the Association the findings 
and recommendations of each such annual review;
        (c)   thereafter, implement such recommendations as the Borrower and the 
Association shall have agreed upon; and
        (d)   without limitation to the foregoing, by March 31, 1997 carry out a 
comprehensive mid-term review of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
        Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
      (ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
     (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
        (b)   The Borrower shall:
              (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
             (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
            (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
        Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as may be necessary 
on its part to ensure that the gas operating companies have sufficient internally 
Page  6
generated funds to meet operating expenses and debt service requirements, maintain an 
adequate working capital position, and with the exception of GTCL, self-finance a 
minimum of 20-30% of their respective investment programs.
        (b)     To meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall, before the start of each fiscal year, review with the Association the 
margins allowed to the gas operating companies in respect of such year.
        Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, 
jointly review with the Association the gas sector's Priority Investment Program (PIP) 
and its implementation in the current fiscal year, as well as the implementation plan 
for the three succeeding fiscal years.
        Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, carry out a joint review with the Association of the 
Borrower's action program for strengthening the institutional and regulatory 
frameworks for the petroleum/gas sector.
        Section 4.05. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out a 
program satisfactory to the Association to clear public sector consumers' arrears for 
gas and condensate supplied by the gas operating companies.
        Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as may be necessary on 
its part to enable GTCL and SGFL to comply with the provisions of Section 4.02 of 
their respective Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
        Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
        (a)      Petrobangla shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Petrobangla Project Agreement.
        (b)      GTCL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
GTCL Project Agreement.
        (c)      SGFL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
SGFL Project Agreement.
        (d)      As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Petrobangla, GTL or SGFL will be able to perform its 
obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
        (e)      The Borrower's Ordinance No. XXI of 1985 (as amended in 1989), 
establishing Petrobangla, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Petrobangla to perform 
any of its obligations under its Project Agreement.
        (f)      The Articles of Association of GTCL dated December 14, 1993, shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of GTCL to perform any of its obligations under its Project 
Agreement.
        (g)      The Articles of Association of SGFL dated April 22, 1982, shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of SGFL to perform any of its obligations under its Project 
Agreement.
        (h)      The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Petrobangla, GTCL or SGFL 
or for the suspension of its operations.
        (i)   (i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the ODA Grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the ODA Grant Agreement.
Page  7
             (ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)      any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
     (b)       any event specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)       the event specified in paragraph (i) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (i) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)      The contract for the construction of the gas pipeline under Part A.1 of 
the Project has been signed;
      (b)      the consultants for Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project have been 
appointed;
      (c)      the Petrobangla Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and Petrobangla;
      (d)      the GTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and GTCL;
      (e)      the SGFL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SGFL; and
      (f)      the ODA Grant Agreement has been signed.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)      that the Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL Project Agreements have been duly 
authorized or ratified by Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL, respectively, and are legally 
binding upon Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL in accordance with their terms; and
      (b)      that the Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL Subsidiary Loan Agreements have 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL, 
respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and Petrobangla, GTCL and SGFL 
in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary of 
the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Economic Relations Division
            Ministry of Finance
            Government of the People's Republic
              of Bangladesh
            Dhaka, Bangladesh
            Cable address:                 Telex:
               BAHIRSAMPAD                  642226 SETU BJ
               Dhaka
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
               INDEVAS                        197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                By /s/ K. M. Ejazul Huq
Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                       Credit Allocated              % of
                        (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
Page  9
(1) Supply and                                   100% of foreign
    erection works                               expenditures
    under turnkey                                and 75% of local
    contracts                                    expenditures
    under:
    (a) Part A.1          34,990,000
        of the
        Project
    (b) Part B.2         14,150,000
        of the
        Project
(2) Equipment and        10,360,000              100% of foreign
    materials                                    expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 70%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(3) Well drilling         5,050,000              100%
    and completion
    services under
    Part B.1 of the
    Project
(4) Civil works under       830,000              70% of local
    Part B.1 of the                              expenditures
    Project
(5) Consultants'         10,420,000              100%
    services and
    training
(6) Unallocated           7,600,000
         TOTAL           83,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
      (a)      the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)      the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
4,480,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (5) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1994.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, civil works, 
well drilling services and the services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (b) the services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in alleviating gas 
supply shortages, implementing sector reforms and developing the sector entities' 
Page  10
institutional capabilities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:     GTCL
1.       Construction of a 58 km, 30-inch diameter gas pipeline from Ashuganj to 
Bakhrabad.
2.       Installation of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and 
pipeline telecommunication system for the entire transmission trunkline from 
Kailashtilla to Chittagong and integration with existing facilities.
3.       Provision of emergency response equipment to GTCL.
4.       Provision of technical assistance to GTCL for: (a) the preparation of designs 
and bid documents, and assistance in bid evaluation and construction supervision for 
Part A.1 and A.2 of  the Project; and (b) the development of GTCL's institutional 
capabilities.
Part B:     SGFL
1.       Development of three production wells at Rashidpurg gas field.
2.       Construction of gas processing facilities to purify gas from the new wells.
3.       Provision of consultancy services to SGFL for the preparation of designs and 
bid documents, and assistance in bid evaluation and construction supervision for Part 
B.1 and B.2 of the Project.
Part C:     Petrobangla
         The provision of institution-building assistance to the Petrobangla group 
for:
         (a)      the establishment of an environmental and safety management system;
         (b)      the upgrading of the group's accounting systems and management 
information systems;
         (c)      the strengthening of reservoir management capability; and
         (d)      staff training in gas sector operations.
                              *      *       *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:       International Competitive Bidding
1.       Except as provided in Part E hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the 
following additional procedures:
         (a)      When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity 
period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required 
to complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the 
contract. The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding 
documents or the request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the 
bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of 
extension. Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the 
Page  11
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part E.2 (a) of this Section, the 
Association's prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid 
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any 
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
        (b)      In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, 
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, 
with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary 
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have 
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.      Construction of the gas pipeline under Part A.1 of the Project and of the gas 
processing facilities under Part B.2 of the Project may be undertaken under two 
separate turnkey contracts.
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
        In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in 
Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
        In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in 
Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part D:       Prequalification
        Bidders for the turnkey construction of the gas pipeline under Part A.1 of the 
Project, and of the gas processing facilities under Part B.2 of the Project, and for 
the drilling service under Part B.1 of the Project shall be prequalified as provided 
in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part E:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.      Drilling site preparation works up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $1,800,000 may, to the extent practicable, be grouped into bid packages 
and procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.      Equipment and materials of a specialized nature and well drilling services 
under Part B.1 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $8,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international 
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a 
list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.      Items of a proprietary nature, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $1,300,000, may be procured through direct contracting with the 
suppliers or manufacturers of such items under procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part F:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.      Review of prequalification:
        With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part C hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.      Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
        (a)      With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, and each contract for goods and well drilling and 
completion services estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
Page  12
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
        (b)      With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract together with the other information required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
        (c)      The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.      The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions 
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.      For the purposes of this Schedule:
        (a)      the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) through (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
        (b)      the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
        (c)      the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 25,000,000.
Page  13
2.      (a)      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
        (b)      Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) for an 
eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the equivalent of $500,000 
shall be made exclusively out of the Special Account. The Association may from time to 
time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the 
preceding sentence.
3.      After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
        (a)      For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
suchrequest or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
        (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
             (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
        (a)      if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
        (b)      if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
        (c)      if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
        (d)      once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
Page  14
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.      (a)      If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
        (b)      If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
        (c)      The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
        (d)      Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
