Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8305
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1878-PAN)
DECEMBER 29, 1989
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ip the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PANAMA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate
1.00 Balboa = 1.00 U.S. Dollar
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Measure__ and Equivalents
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)    = 3.8 feet
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha) = 2.471 acres
Abbreviations and Acronyms
APN       =  National Port Authority
CAJA      =  National Savings Bank
CFZ       =  Colon Free Zone
CODECO    =  Colon's Development Commission
IBJ       =  Industrial Bank of Japan
INAC      =  Nationial Cultural Tnstitute
MIPPE     =  Ministry of Planning
MIVI      =  Ministry of Housing
MOE       =  Ministry of Education
MOP       =  Ministry of Public Works



FOR OMFFCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S A.
Offic eof UOffectoerClK
opsfatmm lvahIN,fin
December 29, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Panama - Colon
Urban Development Project (Loan 1878-PAN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Panama - Colon Urban Development Project (Loan
1878-PAD)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1878-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .......................................                 i
BASIC DATA SHEET ..............................               ii
HIGHLIGHTS ....................................               iv
I.        INTRODUCTION ..................................                 1
Background ....................................                 1
II.       PROJECT ORIGIN, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .....                 2
2.1       Project Origin ................................                 2
2.2       Project Preparation ...........................                 2
2.3       Project Appraisal and Description .............                 3
III.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................                 3
3.1       Executing Agencies ............................                 3
3.2       Performance of Consultants,
Contractors and Suppliers ...................                8
IV.       BANK PERFORMANCE ..............................                 8
V.        PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS ....                 9
VI.       INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT .....                10
VII.      ECONOMIC REEVALUATION .........................                12
VIII.     CONCLUSIONS ...................................                13
TABLES
1  Free Zone Component ......................               16
2  Key Indicators ...........................               17
3  Port lmprovements Component ..............               18
4  Comparison of Appraisal Estimated ........               19
and Actual Project Costs.
ANNEX
1  Division of Executing Responsibilities ...               20
2  Comparison Between Planned and Actual ....               21
Implementation Schedule
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1878-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
*PREFACE
1.       The "Colon Urban Development Project" (Loan 1878-PAN) was approved
on November, 1980 in the sum of US$35 millions. The amount of the loan was
not fully disbursed, and a cancellation of US$7.98 millions had to be
agreed between the Bank and the Government of Panama. The Project's
execution time went very slowly forcing an extension of the Closing Date
from June, 1984 to June, 1987.
2.       This PCR was developed without the project completion report that
the borrower is supposed to submit to the Bank. Therefore, it had to be
based on regional files, supervision mission reports, information provided
by staff members involved with the project during its execution, and
completion reports presented by the executing agencies to the project's
coordinating institution (CODECO). However, some of the implementing
agencies such as the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), the Ministry of
Planning (MIPPE) and the Natural Resources Agency (RENARE) had not, up-to-
date, submitted completion reports to CODECO. These three agencies were in
charge, inter alia, of road improvements, technical assistance monitoring,
*and tourist and recreational facilities respectively. Therefore, the
report on the performance of these components had to be based on an earlier
report put out by CODECO on the progress attained in each component.
3.       This report has been reviewed by the staff who previously worked
on this project as well as the Legal Department, and their comments have
been taken into account for this final version. Also, specific comments to
this report were received by the Bank from Panama's Housing Ministry
regarditng the exact number of housing units actually built, and the
corresponding adjustments have been incorporated into the text.



- ii -
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1878-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. Key Project Data                       ApDraisal Estimate             Actual
Total Project Cost (US $ millions)              133.3            83.5
Overrun (2)                                       -                -
Loan Amount (US $ millions)                      35.0            35.0
Disbursed                                    -              27.02
Cancelled                                                    7,92
Repaid as of 6/30/89                         -               7.6
Date Physical Components Completed               12/83           6/87
Prt'portion completed by above date              100             33.0
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                    -              198.0
Internal Financial Rates of Return (2)           211               N.A.
Financial Performance                     Problem-Free           Major Problems
Institutional Performance                 Problem-Free           Major Problems
-/  Refers to the weighted average of the rates of return for seven
components.
2/  Thte full figure of total disbursement is US $27.02 million, and that
of the cancellation is US $7.98 million. The addition of these two
figures comes to US $35 million, which is the origlnal amount of the
loan.
B. Other Project Data             Original Plan                     Actual
First Mention in Files                   -                    Jan. 17, 1978
Government Application                   -                            N.A.
Negotiations                             -                   May 5-9, 1980
Board Approval                      April 1980                June 19, 1980
L an Agreement Date                      -                   August 7, 1980
;-tectiveness Date                       -                    November 6, 1980
Closing Date                        June 30, 1984             June 30, 1987
Borrower                Republic of Panama
Beneficiaries           Caja de Ahorros, Zona Libre de Colon and
Autoridad Portuaria Nacional
Loan Data:
Interest Rate                                   8.252
Term                                        13 years
Grace Period                                  4 years
Loan Amount (US $ millions)                  35.0                        35.0*
* Of which $7.98 million were subsequently cancelled.



- iii -
BASIC DATA SHEET (cant.)
C. Cumulative Loan Disbursement Data
Bank Fiscal Year      6/81    6/82    6/83    6184    6/85      6/86   6/87
Appraisal
Estimate
(USS millions)         7.0    19.3    30.1    35.0       -        -      -
Actual
(US$ millions)         0.2     1.0     5.1    10.2    13.9      20.8   27.0
Actual as 2
of estimated           2.8     5.2    16.9    29.1    40.0      59.4   77.1
U
n
D.                                   Mission Data                                          -
Mission                    Mo./Yr.      Weeks     Persons     Person-     Report
Weeks        Date
Identification:            9/78          2          6         12         10/18/78
Identification:           12/78          2          1          2         12/01/78
Preparation:               1/79
2/79        N.A.      N.A.        N.A.         N.A.
3/79         1         2           2           3/21/79
5/79        N.A.      N.A.        N.A.         N.A.
Preappraisal               8/79          1         1           1          8/31/79
Appraisal                  1/80          2        13          26           1/11/80
Supervision                8/80          1         3           3          8/13/80
Supervision               11/80          2         1           2          11/6/80
Supervision               12/80          1         3           3         12/12/80
Supervision                3/81          1         1           1          3/18/81
Supervision                6/81          0.5       3           1.5        6/03/81
Supervision                1/82          1         2           2          1/08/82
Supervision                4/82          1         2           2          4/22/82
Supervision               10/82          1         2           2         10/26/82
Supervision                4/83          1         1           1          4/29/83
Supervision               10/83          1         2           2         10/31/83
Supervision                6/84          2         3           6          6/14/84
Supervision                2/85          1         1           1          2/22/85
Supervision                6/85          1         1           1          6/18/85
Supervision               10/85          1         1           1         10/17/85
Supervision                3/86          1         1           1          3/14/86
Supervision                6/86          1         1           1          6/12/86
--------------------------------.---------------------------_------__--------__



- iv -
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1878-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       This first Bank-assisted urban project in Panama was identified :
the end of 1978 and prepared in the first quarter of 1979. The project i.s
appraised in August 1979, and a loan for US$35 million was approved in June
of 1980. The loan was signed in August of the same year.
2.       The primary project goals were to: (a) revitalize Colon as ar.
economic growth center; (b) alleviate poverty through investments which
emphasize employment generation; and (c) improve the provision of urban
services and urban management. The principal components of the project
were: (a) an urban employment program designed to create about 8,000
permanent jobs, by a 35 ha extension of the Colon Free Zone commercial area
as well as the 35 ha for a general purpose industrial estate to be used for
assembling operations and light manufacturing; (b) an urban renewal program
to create about 350 permanent jobs through the construction of a retail
mall and a bus terminal; (c) a housing program designed to increase the
low-income housing stock in Colon by about 4,000 units to be located in a
118 ha site in Puerto Escondido (300 of these units were to be located in
downtown Colon); a social services program which included construction of
community facilities in Puerto Escondido (schools, playgrounds, a health
center, a firehouse and a police station) and small loans to residents for
home expansion and improvements; (d) a regional infrastructure program
designed to improve the general efficiency of the urban and regional
services delivery system, which included four subcomponents: improvement of
the Port of Cristobal, improvement of the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway capacity,
construction of a regional vocational training center, and the construction
and restoration of turist attractions; and (e) technical assistance that
provided consulting ar.. extension services related to: regional development
programming, project monitoring and evaluation, urban transport operations
management, port and railway development and professional development. The
Government established a high level commission (CODECO --"Comision de
Desarrollo de Colon") to coordinate the project (para 3.1.1); which is
currently operating as a local development agency.
3.       Instead of the original envisaged three and a half years, the
project took seven years to complete.  Initial delays were largely due to
institutional difficulties and lack of communication between CODECO, the
coordinating agency, the National Savings Bank (CAJA), as an implementing



agency, and the Housing Ministry (MIVI), as an executing agency. A second
and more serious delay arose in the implementation of the housing component
due to the unsuitability of the site chosen (Puerto Escondido) as seen by
its low bearing capacity (para 3.1.7). Implementation by MIVI, as proposed
(para 3.1.8), was further hindered by, among other factors, fiscal
constraints.
4.       Another major physical change in the project occurred in the
employment component to be carried out by the Free Zone. The government
claimed that there was a lack of demand for sites in the Industrial Area;
therefore the plans for developing this component were cancelled (paras
3.1.3 and 3.1.4). Taking into account the cancellation of the industrial
component and the drastic reduction in the housing component, the
government of Panama and the Bank agreed, in June 1987, to cancel US$7.98
million of loan funds, reducing the total loan amount from US$35 to
US$27.02 million.
5.       An additional major change was the cancellation nf the retail mall
in downtown Colon, due to both the general economic conditions of the city,
and local resistances from the business community in the area.
6.       The project achieved only 22 percent of its employment target;
built 48.8 percent of the housing units and was implemented in about twice
as much time, at almost twice the estimated investment costs for housing
(para 8.1.3). The other components (i.e. commercial area, bus terminal,
social services, port and road improvements, vocational training center,
touristic and recreational facilities, and technical assistance) though
fully completed and currently in operation, were implemented with
substantial delays and are still facing some problems.
7.       Taking into account the main objectives of the project (i.e. to
reduce Colon's unemployment and thereby create the economic conditions to
make low-income housing more affordable), the actual results were very
poor.



PA-AMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PEOJECT (LOAN 1878-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      Background
1.1.1    Panama's comparative advantage lies in activities which make use
of the country's location, and indeed the commercial and service sectors
(international banking, transshipment, warehouses and insurance) have
accounted for much of the growth of the economy in recent decades. These
sectors constitute, aJong with export-oriented industrialization, the main
source of Pconomic growth.  The development of commercial and service
activities has contributed to a high level of urbanization. Fifty-one
percent of the total population of 1.8 million in 1979 lived in urban areas
(communities of more than 1,500 people). The population is concentrated
along the corridor bordering the Panama Canal, particularly in Panama City,
the capital, which is located on the Pacific entrance to the Canal, and to                U
- :-ch lesser extent in Colon, which is located on the Atlantic entrance.
X :'.e two cities and their environs form the transseismic Metropolitan
Region, which contains about 80% of the urban pcpulation, and is growing at
a annual rate of 3.5Z. Population growth has, however, been concentrated
in greater Panama City.
1.1.2    The heavy concentration of the urban population in Panama City and
Colon accounted for the Governmentt's; decision to give priority to the
development of the Panana City-Colon Metropolitan Region. This decision
was also dictated by .he magnitude and intensity of the region's
socioeconomic problems. These were most apparent in Colon, where economic
stagnation and a poor investment climate were, in part, a result of the
distorted spatial development pattern of the city. Manzanillo Island
(downtown Colon) was an enclave within the former Canal Zone and the City's
suburban expansion had to take place in areas beyond the jurisdiction of
the former Zone. These are at a considerable distance from the city center
and from the main sources of employment, and generated an inefficient
spatial configuration.
1.1.3    In 1979, Coloin had a populstion of 67.800.  Its population,
descended mainly from migrant Caribbean workers employed in the
construction of the Canal, had maintained cultural traditions separate from
those of the rest of Panama. Tthis distinctiveness was considered to breed
a sense of isolation accentuated by Colon's spatial configuration. About
382 of the population fell below the relative poverty threshold (family
income of US$2,205 per annum). The major sources of employment in Colon
had been the Colon Free Zone and the Port of Cristobal which account for
752 of total employment in the city.



-2-
1.1.4    Despite such initiatives by the Government as the construction of
a Free Zone and an oil refinery, Colon failed to participate in the rapid
growth of Panama. Colon's depressed state, and the related problems of
unemployment, poverty, delinquency and urban blight prompted the government
to create a program which s'iuglit to attack the causes as we'l as the
symptoms of urban poverty through a long-term, multisector approach. The
reversion to Panama of the former Canal Zone territory on the immediate
outskirts of Colon provided the opportunity to promote the integrated
development of the hitherto isolated central city and its suburban
hinterland. The Government requested the Bank's assistance in the
development of this program, which focused on two objectives.  The first
was to immediately address the needs of Colon, such as the provision of
jobs in productive activities and of housing. This formed the basis of the
proposed integrated urban development project. The second objective was to
prepare a development strategy and related policies and programs for the
Metropolitan Region as a whole, using the Colon sub-region program as a
prototype. The Colon Urban Development Project, subject of this report,
was designed to support these objectives.
II. PROJECT ORIGIN, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.1      Project Origin
2.1.1    Since 1978 the Bank assisted the Government in defining a program
which formed the basis of this project.  The specific objectives of the
program were: (i) to revitalize Colon as an economic growth center; (ii)
to alleviate poverty through investments which emphasize employment
generation; (iii) to improve the provision of urbatn services and urban
management; (iv) to develop a prototype urban development programming and
management capability for eventual use at the level of the Metropolitan
Region; and (v) to identify urban policy issues that could not be
adequately addressed at the local or subregional level and prepare further
related investments.
2.2      Project Preparation
2.2.1    Project preparation took place between September 1978 and May
1979. After some delays arising from the need to secure right of access to
project sites in the Canal Zone (the land for the project sites did not
legally revert to Panama until October 1979), the Government created a task
force consisting of all relevant sectoral agencies. MIVI was in charge of
preparing the detailed plans for a site and services components, a public
mall and bus terminal. The employment generation component was to be
prepared by the Colon Free Zone (CFZ). Both agencies had had previous
experience in these types of programs and the overall project preparation
were handled by the Planning Ministry (MIPPE). Several consultants were
employed in project preparation, specifically in the areas of urban
plannirg (i.e., housing, infrastructure, transport, land use and municipal
organization) and in the development of the Panama City Study.



2.3      Project Appraisal and Description
2.3.1    The project was appraised in December 1979 by a 13 member-mission.
an early indication of the level of complexity and ambitiousness of project
design.  The project consisted of five Inajor subprojects:
(i)   Urban Employment:  extension by 35 ha of the Colon Free Zone's
existing 57 ha duty-free commercial area, and implementation
of the first phase ('S ha) of a general pterpose industrial
estate catering primarily to as-embly operations and light
manufacturing. This component was expected to create 4,000
permanent jobs (estimated cost US$56.0 million).
(ii)   Urban Renewal:  construction of a retail mall and a bus
terminal, intended to act as catalyst in the rehabilitation of
a blighted area aljdcent to the Cristobal Port cruise-ship
terminal. (Estimated cost US$6.5 million.)
(iii)   Housing and Social Services:  urbanization of a 118-ha site
(Puerto Escondido), construction of 4,025 dwelling units
(about 300 in downtown Colon and the remainder in Puerto
Escondido), construction of community facilities in Puerto
Escondido and provision of home improvement credits.
(Estimated cost US$43.5 million.)
(iv)   Regional Infrastructure:  improvements to the Port of
Cristobal, improvements to the Colon access section of the
Panama City-Colon Highway, establishment of a regional
education center and construction of recreational facilities
to serve Colon. (Estimated cost US$25.3 million.)
(v)   Technical Assistance:  consulting and extension of services
related to: regional development program, project monitoring
and evaluation, urban transport operations management, port
and railway development and professional development.
(Estimated cost US$2.0 million.)
2.3.2    Negotiations took place in Washington during May 5-9, 1980 and a
loan amounting to US$35.0 million equivalent was approved by the Board of
Director3 on June 19, 1980. The loan amount represented 26Z of the total
project cost (US$133.0 million). 53? of the costs were to be financed by
commercial banks and the rest by the Caja de Ahorros (14?), Colon Free Zone
(62), and the National Port Authority (1Z). The project was expected to be
ccmpleted in December 1983 and the loan closing date was set to June 30,
1984.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1      Executing Agencies
3.1.1    The Government established a High Level Commission (CODECO) to
coordinate the project. The Commission operates along the lines of
regional development corporations in other countries, and is empowered to
determine the priorities of Colon and to channel resources accordingly.



-4!
The Commission is headed by an Executive Committee which is chaired by the
Vice President of the Republic, and consists of a Managing Director and of
the Ministers of Planning, the Presidency, and Housing, the Governor of the
Province of Colon, and the Managers of CAJA and the Colon Free Zone. The
Government agreed that the Commission should be retained with its original
powers during the entire implementation period of the project (Section 3.06
of the Loan Agreement).
3.1.2    Each of the implementing agencies were responsible for programming
and budgeting its respective components including design, bidding,
procurement, construction and coordination with other participating
agencies. Each agency carried out with its own staff the detailed
engineering of its component except for the Free Zone which hired
consultants to work on this task. Each of the agencies provided personnel
for staffing the facilities once they were constructed. CODECO, in
coordination with the Free Zone, which was the Borrower for the co-financed
portion of the project, and with CAJA, oversaw the sites and services
component and was to coordinate the work of the different agencies
involved. Annex 1 gives details of the executing agencies for each project
component. What follows is a discussion of the implementation of each of
those components.
(i)    Urban Employment
3.1.3    The urban employment sub-project was only partially implemented,
largely because the world-wide recession had an adverse effect on the Free
Zone. Some statistics illustrate this situation: imports, which had
increased by an average of 22? per annum between 1967 and 1981 dropped by
about 1OZ in 1982. Also, many of the companies located in the commercial
area, were carrying large inventories of unsold goods. Several companies
(18 of them) had terminated their leases, and some had gone out of
business. In addition, the government claimed that there was a lack of
demand for sites in the industrial Area; therefore, the plans for its
developments were cancelled. However, it should be noted that many efforts
were made by the Free Zone to find new alternatives to expand Colon's
exports (such as opening-up non-traditional markets, shifting the original
production emphasis, etc., and avoid this component's cancellation),
despite adverse economic circumstances. The expansion of the commercial
area, on the other hand, was carried out with only a slight delay and was
completed at the end of 1983. As planned, 36 spaces for businesses were
built and are currently in operation. Also, 53 of the originally envisaged
56 ha of open land were set up for future construction.  Table 1 provides a
break-down of the cost of this project component.
3.1.4    This component was estimated to generate 8,350 new permanent jobs
over the period of 1980-1983.  The number of jobs actually created was
1,870, which is equivalent to 22? of the original goal (Table 2).  The
actual number of jobs correspond to the expansion of the commercial area,
which was supposed to generate 3,000 new permanent jobs, or 36Z of the
total goal.



(ii)   Urban Renewal
3.1.5    This project component was also, according .o the Govermnent,
affected by the world economic recession as it was later conifirmed by a
market study that showed its lack of feasibility. As a result, only the
bus terminal subcomponent was carried out as planned. The commercial mall
subproject was cancelled.
3.1.6    The bus and passengers terminal was finished in October 1984 and
it is currently in operation. Even though construction was completed in
one year as estimated, it was not initiated until about three years after
the starting date originally expected.  The reason for this delay was that
its location was changed thiree times because of land tenure, technical,
administrative, and bureaucratic problems. Another factor that contributed
to this substantial delay was the change in location of the housing
component which was to determine where the bus terminal was to be
constructed. Even though the bus and passengers terminal has substantially
met its objectives, it appears that part of the compornent's physical
operating capacity was underestimated, and presently an expansion of the
passengers terminal is being considered. The terminal is currently used by
ten to fifteen thousand people and 339 buses serving fourteen routes.
(iii) Housing and Social Services
3.1.7    MIVI was in charge of the implementation of the Housing and Social
Services Component, and CAJA (Caja de Ahorros) was responsible for
financing and collecting mortgage payments. The projects target was to
build 4,025 housing units to be located in 118 hectares in "I"erto
Escondido". This task was supposed to be carried out in four years,
between 1980-1983. However, only 1,965 units were built between 1980-1987
which is equivalent to 48.82 of the project's goal.  This number of units
was achieved in twice as much the estimated time, and represents 542 of the
component's total cost. Several reasons explain these differences. They
are: (a) initial delays were largely due to institutional difficulties and
lack of communication between CODECO (the coordinating agency), 'Caja de
Ahorros' (the financial agency), and the Housing Ministry (the executing
agency), which were compounded by MIVI's managerial and technical
weaknesses; (b) a substantial delay caused by the unsuitability of the
original site chosen ("Puerto Escondidon), due to its land's low bearing
capacity. This led to higher per unit construction costs, and the need to
identify new sites for both housing units and social services. A new
design of the housing component and its location was agreed in 1982; (c)
regular rotation of senior officials in HIVI affected the normal flow of
communication, particularly between MIVI and the Savings Bank (CAJA),
slowing down operating performance; (d) restriction in public expenditures
which affected budgetary allocations; and (e) lack of managerial action and
weak monitoring by CODECO. In 1985, due to these delays in implementation,
the component was re-designed again, taken into account the increasing
housing unit costs, beneficiaries low ability to pay, and limitations in
land availability. As a result, the size of this component was reduced to
2,300 shelter units. However, CODECO and the Bank agreed to stop
construction when only 1,965 units were built because substantial part of
the housing units were invaded by Colon residents, which impaired the
operational and financial performance of the program (footnote 2).



- 6 -
3.1.8    In February 1982, the Government of Panama through MIVI, formally
proposed to the Bank (after abouit nine months of considering the proposal)
the relocation of a substantial part of the housing component. MIVI's
proposal argued that: a) costs would be lower in new sites than in Puerto
Escondido, and b) the proposed new sites would respond better to
beneficiaries' expressed preferences. The new proposal consisted of
increasing the number of units in the urban core from 300 to approximately
1,750 attempting to create an "urban renewal effect" (demonstration effect)
in dilapidated neighborhoods. Anothier 1,720 units were to remain in
'Puerto hscondidor, and about 525 units are to be located halfway between
the original site and the city of Arco Iris. These relocations entailed
some changes in the provision of related infrastructure, some community
facilities and the bus terminal. These changes in location did not affect
in principle the project's main objective of restoring the city of Colon as
an urban growth center. However, the Bank should make sure for a project
of similar nature that a complete soil investigation of the selected site
is available before appraisal.
3.1.9    The community facilities associated with the Housing and Social
Services Component were developed in n parallel fashion with the housing
developments. The social services actually built include the following:
Cultural Center, Children Center, Library, Open Areas, and the
reconstruction and building of the primary and secondary schools in Colon
and its suburban area as planned. It should be noted, however, that the
rehabilitation of schools in Colon was not originally part of the project;
it was a change approved during implementation. The implementation of
these facilities in general was affected by the relocation and delays of
the Housing Component.
(iv)   Regional Infrastructure
(a) Improvements to the Port of Cristobal
3.1.10   Cristobal Harbor's modernization and expansion was finished in
1984 with a delay of 273 days, and it is currently in full operation. Most
of the delays were the result of inadequate blueprints, over-specifications
in project design and ultimately the need to hire new contractors,l a fact
that caused a substantial cost overrun.2   Table 3 provides details of the
cost of the improvements as compared to appraisal estimates. Since this
subproject was implemented, it has substantially facilitated, and increased
the volume of operations. In 1983, Cristobal Harbor managed 37,000
containers and 343,663 metric tons of cargo, these volumes increased by
51.7Z and 40.5Z respectively by 1985. It managed 56,128 containers which
is equivalent to 58.3? of all the units that enter the national system of
harbors in 1985. In this sense, Cristobal Harbor is currently the most
important of all national harbors.
1/ It should be noted that the work of the original contractor had
practically to be redone.
2/ Cost overrun occurred despite the apparent economies of the new design
(carried out by a local firm) mainly due to the general delay and its
automatic effect in prices.



- 7 -
(b) Improvement of the Panama City - Colon Highway
3.1.11   This project component was completed with a delay of almost three
years due mainly to lack of budgetary appropriations caused by the
Government's austerity measures (Annex 2). Other reasons for this delay
were: (a) project design (a service provided in-house by MOP engineers)
was behind schedule; and (b) the need for a major redesign involving
private compensation to private parties by mid-term of component's
implementation, also delayed projects implementation.
(c) Regional Traininig Center
3.1.12   The regional training center (RTC) was supposed to be directly
related to the project's main target of employment generation through the
expansion of Colon's Free Zone. RTC role was to train manpower in
different industrial skills to satisfy future demands from the never-
implemented industrial park and the expansion of the Free Zone in general.
The RTC started operating in 1984 after a five year implementation period,
and consequently has not met the goal of becoming a Provincial or National
training center. Furthermore, it has not met either the objective of
training small entrepreneurs through the coordination of the regional
office of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Despite the cancellation
of the industrial park, the original design of RTC was implemented,
apparentlv without any regard to the reductions made. This substantially
explains iTC's current underutilization,3  and its apparently growing
deterioration.
(d) Recreational Facilities
3.1.13   The recreational facilities regarding the restoration of Fort San
Lorenzo and the physical infrastructure of Lake Gatun Park, were fully
finished and are currently in operation. The execution of this component
did not start as originally scheduled and its implementation was undertaken
in about twice the time than the appraisal estimate.
3.1.14   Based on the reversion to the government of Panama of the
railroad, previously under the jurisdiction of the Canal Zone, an objective
of Colon's Urban Development Project was to provide technical assistance in
training Panama's Railway staff. The original target was to train forty
members of the Railway staffs thirty-five technicians and five managers.
The objective of this component, despite some minor changes, was fully
achieved as described below. The training practice was supposed to be
conducted by the Mexican Railroad Agency, however, part of the personnel
had to be trained in Argentina for a shorter period. The actual cost of
the component (BW. 149,740) turned out to be smaller than the estimated
(b/. 185,030) due to a cut in the length of training. A total of forty-one
railroad personnel received training. Currently, thirty-nine of those
trained work for Panama Railroad Agency, and some of them have been
31 Some Bank staff directly involved with project supervision deem that -
RTC's main problem is its inconvenient location that makes the access
to this facility rather difficult.



promoted to positions of higher responsibility. As part of the component's
objectives these personnel has been disseminating their knowledge acquired
abroad within the instttution. Overall, Panama Railroad administrative and
technical capacity has improved significantly as compared to that of 1982.
3.2      Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
3.2.1    The technical performance of consultants regarding project
implementation was in general satisfactory. However, their performance in
relation to project design was far too optimistic. In the case of main
civil work contracts (particularly housing and road construction), although
major delays occurred in these components mainly due to errors in project
design and counterpart constraints, contractors and suppliers performed
fairly well. In the Port Improvements Component, however, there were
problems of over-specifications in project design that caused delays, and
ultimately the need to hire new contractors. Training of Panama Railway
staff was adequately supplied and benericial in spite of the change in the
country of training during the course of this program.
IV. BANK PERFORMANCE
4.1.1    It appears, in retrospect, that the project preparation did not
fully estimate the effective demand for sites in the industrial park.
Also, a formal international campaign to promote the proposed sites was not
fully undertaken during project preparation. In addition, it was never
clear why Colon's industrial free zone would be more attractive to foreign
investors than other free zones around the world, although changes in the
world economy were argued two years later as the main reason for the
cancellation of this component.4   Furthermore, once the industrial park
was canceled, adjustments in the project design, in relation to the
magnitude and the role that other components (directly linked to the
industrial estate) were supposed to play, were not ever made. For
instance, the implementation of the regional education center (which was
supposed to train manpower in industrial skills to be used in the proposed
park), went ahead with the logical outcome of ending up underutilized after
being completed. Several adjustments were made during project
implementation; however, they were mostly limited to solve the problems of
each "independent' component; for instance, the relocation (redesign) of
the housing component due to the unsuitability of the original site--which
apparently the Baik could have avoided, if a more careful inspection of the
proposed site had been undertaken.
4/ It is felt by some Bank's staff, closely related to project
supervision, thac the Free Zone undertook vigorous and careful actions
oriented to achieve the objective of strengthening Colon's economic
base. Also, it is deemed that the cancellation of the industrial
component was a sound and politically difficult decision to exit what
could have become a 'white elephant".



- 9 -
4.1.2    A lesson from the above experience is the greater care that must
be given during project preparation, in estimating demard, its
effectiveness, and the need to allow for a margin of error in this
estimation. Another lesson of impurtance is to allow for adjustments in
the overall project design during project supervision, particularly when
the components are so highly interrelated to one another, and one of them
is canceled. Though the high degree of integration across components was
in principle desirable it was also a risk factor that made the project more
vulnerable.
4.1.3    There is an obvious lesson to be learned from this project.  The
Bank should refrain from participating in very complex projects requiring a
high degree of institutional development, which seek to address many
objectives, for which solutions are many times elusive. A staged approach,
focusing first on few key aspects of the problem at hand, should be
preferred. In the case of this project, the employment generation and
housing components should have been given priority and resources should
have concentrated in their careful preparation. Finally, if it is decided
that a project of this magnitude is necessary, the Bank should be ready to
allocate the necessary resources for its adequate supervision; 31.5 staff-
weeks in six years seems to be quite below the minimum needed for the
supervision of a project of such size and scope that required the
participation of 13 people in its appraisal.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
5.1.1    Table 4 provides the appraisal estimated costs for each project
component and the costs actually incurred during implementation. These
costs are readily comparable only in the case of the commercial state, the
bus terminal and the regional infrastructure subprojects. As already
explained, the rest of the project components were either cancelled or
substantially reduced in size.
5.1.2    The commercial area subcomponent was implemented at a cost 12?
below appraisal estimate. User charges collected from business located in
the area cover operating expenditures and Ljbt service. However, these
charges have not been adjusted as rapidly as originally planned.
5.1.3    In the case of the bus and passenger terminal component,
implementation delays caused an increase of about 202 with respect to the
contracted cost. Prices were higher due to inflation and also because of
deterioration of part of the project's basic physical infrastructure.
However, it should be noted that the contracted total cost was lower than
the appraisal estimated cost; the difference between the estimated and
actual cost is equivalent to a drop of 16Z. Even though the component
covers its operating expenditures its revenues are fairly lower than the
amount originally estimated. This was primarily due to about 25? over-
estimation of the amount of buses actually using the terminal. However,
since the administration of the terminal is given in a temporary basis, it
appears this contractual arrangement will allow the National Transport



- 10 -
Authority (NTA) the requirement (from the current management) of
adjustments in users charges every five years as a condition to maintain
the terminal's administration. This practice, according to NTA, will
insure the component's cost-recovery. These two subcomponents on urban
develcpment were confinanced by the Industrial Bank of Japan as originally
planned.
5.1.4    According to the original financial plan, 60% and 40? of the
Housing Components' cost was to be financed by IBRD and the Government of
Panama (GOP) respectively. However, due to GOP budgetary constraints, and
the component's increasing cost, these percentages were mutually agreed to
be changed to 90? and 10? in 1986. By the time the project was completed,
in 1987, and after the cancellation of US$7.98 millions of the component
total cost, the above distribution came out to be 65.8? and 34.1?, very
close to the original target. Also, the estimated housing unit cost was
B$11,335.7 in 1982, and mostly due to inflation it became B$12,150 or about
12? higher in 1987, which limited the eligibility of some potential
beneficiaries. The current cost-recovery program for this component
implies a 642 subsidy from GOP -- i.e., only 36? of the investment will be
recovered directly from current beneficiaries. The originally planned
recovery rate was 75? taking into account that 252 would be investments in
physical infrastructure and social services. The actual investment was Bl.
23.9 millions of which 72.5? will be recovered, which is just slightly
lower than the original target of 752. This was the only component that
did not have cofinancing from the Industrial Bank of Japan.
5.1.3    All of the infrastructure improvement subprojects experienced cost
overruns ranging from about 12? to about 24Z of the appraisal estimate. In
general, these cost increases were caused by the delays in implementation
and higher than expected inflation rates. In the case of the port
improvement subcompotnent, problems in the original design contributed to
the cost increases (footnote 3).
5.1.6    Disbursements lagged substantially behind appraisal estimates due
to the geaerally slow project implementation, and were made over a six year
period -- from March 1981 to March 1987. Also, as a consequence of the
need for redesigning the project's physJcal location, particularly that of
the housing component, delays in disbursement became more severe. The loan
closing date had to be extended for two years -- from June 30, 1984 to June
30 1986. The final disbursement was made on March 12, 1987 (after the
closing date) leaving an undisbursed balance of US$7.98 million, which was
cancelled on March 31, 1987. Overall, 77% of the loan was disbursed. The
cumulative loan disbursement figures are shown in section (C) of the basic
data sheet.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.1.1    The project did not achieve its main institutional objective of
supporting the development of a prototype urban development programming and
management capability for eventual use at the Metropolitan Region level.
In fact, poor project results, stemming from unrealistic premises and an
overcomplicated scheme with very limited possibilities of success in a



- 11 -
country with serious institutional weaknesses, may discourage future worthy
integrated efforts in the area of urban development.
6.1.2    In spite of the less than expected achievements in the
institutional front, the project did contribute to some institutional
strengthening. The following paragraphs gives a brief description of those
improvements that can be attributed to the project.
*           6.1.3    In regards to the housing component, the project contributed to
strengthen MIVI's technical and operating capacity to undertake ',w-income
housing programs. Also, MIVI's staff training program was improved, in
order to meet the project's new and broader responsibilities.
6.1.4    The Cristobal Harbor component contributed to modernize and expand
operating and overall institutional capacity. Also, the National Port
Authority organized training courses for its staff at different levels, on
a regular basis. These training courses have been coordinated with the
United Nations Development Program (PNUD), and are intended to upgrade the
technical, planning, and operating performance of all national ports based
on Cristobal's experience.
6.1.5    The National Transport Authority (NTA) has had provious experience
in developing bus and passengers terminals. Thus, CODECO's role, as the
coordinating agency, was not crucial to insure this component's
implementation; rather, its role created additional obstacles for the
component's supervision. However, it should be noted that since the
overall design of Colon's Urban Development Project included several
components, this necessarily created a need for inter-institutional
coordination. Two other bus and passenger stations have been developed by
NTA drawing on the Colon experience. In general, Colon's "Bus and
Passenger Terminal" component has contributed to enhance NTA's
institutional development.
6.1.6    In regard to the Regional Training Center (RTC), CODECO organized
an "Inter-institutional Technical Committee" composed by the Education
Ministry (MINEDUC), the Labor Ministry (SENAFORP), and the Polytechnic
Institute (PI), which was jointly in charge of dealing with RTC's technical
implementation aspects, such as the design of its physical plant, workshops
and laboratories, management of ICB for procurement of RTC's equipment and
tools, design of its training courses, etc. Also, in its implementation
process Panama University joined the "Committee" in order to create the
"Sistema Nacional Polit4cnicos in which MINEDUC, SENAFORP, INAFORT, PI and
Panama University would program their own educational and training
activities making the best use of RTC's installations and equipment.
However, once RTC was fully implemented the executing agency handed over
RTC to INAFORP whlich ignored all previous inter-institutional agreements
and did not allow the use of the center by any other institution, which (in
addition to the effect of the cancellation of the industrial park) has now
contributed to perpetuate the current underutilization of RTC.
6.1.7    The technical assistance refers to consulting and extension
services. It was the smallest of all components--l.52 of project's total
cost. Apparently most of these services were carried out. However, there



- 12 -
are no completion reports from the Planning, Education and Public Works
Ministries to detail its implementation; the only information available
refers to Panama's Railway Agency. Even though this program suffered
substantial delays, it was fully implemented, and it has been useful to
Panama's Railroad system to develop its technical, administrative and
general operational capacity.
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
7.1.1    During appraisal, an analysis of the cost and benefits of the
project was performed for those sub-projects expected to generate benefits
that could be readily quantified. These included the industrial and
commercial estates, the port and road improvements, the retail mall, the
bus terminal and the low inicome housing subprojects. These analysis
yielded rates of return ranging from 13.72 for commercial estate to 492 for
the bus terminal. HIVI carried out an ex-post evaluation of the housing
component. The rest of the executing agencies did not provide an economic
reevaluation of their components and, therefore, only a qualitative
assessment of their economic merits is given in this report.
7.1.2    As already mentioned, the housing component achieved about half of
its investment goal and consequently, there was a reduction of similar
magnitude in its employment generation and in general in the component's
multiplier effect on Colon's economy. The component's total benefits have
been classified into direct and indirect benefits, and start to accrue in
the fifth year of implementation. Direct benefits are measured by tenant's
monthly payments to cover their mortgages and public utilities. Indirect
benefits derive from governmental subsidies. The total component cost is
given by the construction cost, land cots, public services, maintenance and
administrative costs, and monthly mortgage payments. The housing
component's internal rate of return, as reported by MIVI, is 11.62. Even
though it is smaller than the appraisal expected 15.72, it indicated net
positive benefits.5
7.1.3    The original investment plan of the employment component (the Free
Zone) was B/60.5 million Balboas. However, only 402 of it, B/26.0 millions
were actually invested in the development of the commercial area. Also,
because the other two sub-components, the industrial park and the retail
mall were never built, only 222 of the estimated jobs were actually
created. In additiotn, the componentts cost came out approximately 902
nigher than originally planned. Therefore, substantially less jobs were
created at a cost almost twice as high as originally planned. This
suggests that the employment component may have not been economically
viable.
5/ It should be noted, however, that the handling of the reversion of real
estate stock (in the vicinity of the project) from the Canal Zone to
Panama, had strong negative effects in the shelter component's cost
recovery, and arose equity concerns as well.



- 13 -
7.1.4    The benefits of the expansion and modernization of the Harbor's
technology have accrued to Colon's local economy, the nation's atlantic
region, and especially to the international-trade sector of Panama's
economy. Also, current economic activities of the commercial and
industrial areas of Colon's Free Zone have directly benefited from the
port's improvements, making this an economically successful component.
7.1.5    As mentioned above, the revenues of the bus terminal component
were overestimated, while current expenditures were underestimated. Due to
these differences, the rompjonent's financial internal rate of return was
only >:.83Z, significantly lower than the original estimate of 492.
However, the component did substantially meet its goals regarding
employment generation, the rationalization of the operations of the
transportation industry, and has had a strong effect on the economic growth
of retail businesses in its immediate urban area. It is difficult to say
however, to what extent this component was economically sound.
7.1.6    The Regional Educational Center (RTC) is currently under the
administration of INAFORP and provides training in various skills related
mainly to the construction industry, and in maintenance of light industrial
equipment and electrical appliances. RTC, as mentioned above, does not
provide services to other training institutions and its physical
installations and equipment are underutilized. Also, taking into account
that the industrial park was never built, it seemed reasonable to open the
possibility of using RTC's capacity to provide support to other
institutions. However, this has not been possible. Hence, under the
current conditions, if RTC's benefits could be quantified, this component
would not classify as a reasonable economic investment.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.1.1    The design of the project, mainly the role that each of its
components was supposed to play was in retrospect, too ambitious. The Bank
and the Government made crucial assumptions that never became reality.
Among them and most important, the effective demand for industrial space in
the Free Zone anticipated at appraisal was deemed as unattainable two years
after the project had started. This was explained as being the result of a
recession in the world economy. However, lack of a campaign to promote the
industrial park, and the fact that the availability of physical
infrastructure for new industry would not necessarily guarantee a demand
for these facilities, represents the most serious shortcoming in project
design.
8.1.2    As a consequence of the cancellation of the industrial park, which
is equivalent to 332 of the component investment, and 602 of the new jobs,
the project suffered a major drawback in achieving its main objective,
which was to generate employment and activate Colon's local economy. The
second most important sub-component (that had the same purpose as above)
was the expansion of the industrial area; whose construction, even though
fully completed, only met its employment target in 62Z.



_ 14 -
8.1.3    The second most important component of thte project was Housing and
Social Services. Forty eight percent of its original number of housing
units were constructed. Five main factors contributed to this
disappointing outcome: a) Inter-institutional relations between the
project's coordinating agency (CODECO), the executing agency (MIVI), and
financial the agency (CAJA) were difficult and did not flow as
expeditiously as planned; b) the executing agency was not very familiar
with the management, and technical requirements of projects of this
magnitude, and its need for technical assistance was not detected at an
early stage of project execution; c) MIVI's unexpected budgetary
constraints slowed down contractor's performance; d) there was a very
strong interest in using the reverted land from the Canal Zone, and the
location chosen for the major housing settlement did not meet the technical
requirements of soil bearing capacity, which was not realized and fully
considered until the second year of project implementation; e) a
substantial part of the housing units were invaded by homeless Colon
residents (many of them without being fully finished), which impaired the
operational and financial performance of the program, and threatened the
practicability of future low-income housing developments. The invasion of
the housing development forced CODECO and the Bank to agree on ending the
construction of additional units. The above five factors made the project
come to an end, and slowed down significantly its implementation; also, and
due to the rate of inflation, these delays affected housing unit cost.
Furthermore, additional administrative and relocation expenditures
contributed to increase the unit cost of housing.
8.1.4    Three specific conclusions follow from this component's
experience: a) it is important to limit the number of agencies involved in
the implementation of a single component; b) it is important to insure that
the lines of authority of the coordinating agency are fully consistent with
those existing, and recognized, prior to the project and; c) the Bank and
the Government could have identified the above weaknesses during the
identification and preparation stages if they had been more vigorous.
8.1.5    The sub-components under the Regional Physical Infrastructure
Component -- i.e., port improvements, road construction and recreational
facilities (Fort San Lorenzo and Gatun Lake) were all in general relatively
successful. In part their success was due to the fact that independent and
relatively small public works are in general less vulnerable to external
factors and their design and implementation can be more predictable. Also,
those executing agencies worked in a rather independent manner.  However,
an exception to these sub-components was the Regional Education Center
(REC), which is currently underutilized, since the industrial park was
never implemented, and it was supposed to demand the skilled labor that REC
was designed to train. REC's current underutilization is also due to the
unsuccessful agreement across several educational institutions (MINEDUC,
SENAFORP, INAFORP, the Politechnic Institute, and Panama University) which
was made as an attempt to support their own educational programs, taking
advantage of REC installations and equipment.



- 15 -
8.1.6     It also appears that inter-institutional coordination (of eight
agencies and eleven components) was crucial for the performance of the
project. Therefore, sinee inter-agency coordination cannot always be
easily attained, or its need cannot always be avoided, efforts should be
made to prevent the design of projects with too many components (Para.
4.1.3), overly ambitious, and therefore with a strong need for extensive
coordination across agencies which is known as inherently difficult.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 16 -
TABLE 1
COLON URBAN DEVLOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1878-PAN)
PtOJECT CONFLETION 3EPORT
nRuE ZONE CoNPoNENT - ACTUAL COST 11
(In thousands of lalboas)
Coimercial
Area                                Actual costs
PHASE I                                4,381.4
Streets                                26019.8
Treatment Plant                          303.8
Pumping Station                        1,457.8
PHASE  I AND UII                      11,907.0
Land Filing I2                         1,305.4
Land Filing I2                         1,963.1
vater Supply It and III                5,641.6
Treatment Plant                          425.6
Pumping Station                        1,992.2
Pover (Blect.)                           116.5
Telephone system                          41.4
Bldg. Safety *o Parking $g1.2
TOtAL*                           16,288.4
1/  The appraisal estlmed coat of this conpet was B$14.3 mllllon.
SOURCE: Colon's Free lone, Acomtfig Department, and US.
a 



- 17 -
TABLE 2
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COlPLETION REPOR1
KEY INDICATORS
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES                ACTUAL
COMPONENTS                  INDICES                       Target                    ATTAINED    PERCENT
1980   191   1982    1988   Total
1. mployment
Total                                      --  1000   a,650   8,700  9,860    1,970          22
Commreial Estato   No. of permanent jobs  --       00   1,500   1,000   8,000    1,870        62
Industrial Estate   No. of permanent jobs  --    600  2,000  2,600  65000          0           0
Urban Rentuel Sub. No. of permanent jobs  --       --     160    200    860 nas                n.s
project
2. Retal loll             U Completed             5     66      40      --    100        0           0
S. Bus Terminal          X Completed            --      50      50      --    100    (in 19S5)    100
4. Low Income Housing
Total                                      420  1,420  1,750    486  4,026    19B66           48.9
Puorto Escondido    Completed d,.lil9ig    850  1,190   1,760    486  8,726       870          28.4
units
Downtown Colon      Completed dwelling      70   280    --        --    800       569         189.7
units
Arco Iris */   Completed dwelling          --      --    --       --    --        626
unite
5. Home Improvements    Amount loaned,           --     --     1.6    1.6    8.0        na.         n.s.
Credits               8 millions
6. Port Improvemnts    X Completed                20    SO    --        --    100    (in 198s)   100.0
7. Road Improvemsn*-     X Completed             80    70    --         --    100    (in 19Sa)   100.0
8. Regional Educatlon    X Completed              26     76    t- __            0o0   (in 1984)    100.0
Center
9. Technical             X Disbursed              10    40      30      20    100   (in 1987)    100.0
Assistance b/
This location res Included as part of the redesign of this component.
b/ Refers to Panama's Railroad Technical Assistance.



- 18 -
LABLE 3
COO9W                            CS  O^1878-PAN)
,MS    CA  ORSm
- ~   ~     m   DRYI?   mOuS Wi 
Cg AUSOw On XA               CST
(In thouusnd  of alboa) *
Sub-Com   itmst i-4ued                        Actnal          ACTSEST
Infrastructure              ,5.527.1           6.426.2        1.16
Containers e Area            i172.S            5957.7         1.15
Poers 9 ad 10                  354.8             468.5        1.32
luid1nAs                     2.15?.S           2.571.8
Cargo                      1,767.8           2,117.3        2.19
Control                      590.0             454.5        1.16
ZquInwsut                      554.0             548.5        0.99
Supervwio                      256.5             224.5        0.87
!ecbnicsl Assistanes           256               327.5        1.58
coating" Lee                 1,747.6             "S.0         0.27
sna Co_be    ,   .5tv.I           _     ||201.4       &.LS
InTerests anit @eSsue JIf3Ia.&11
lOYAL                       33,0135           33.764.7        1.06
UU   l ns ima hat Audrity Mtd  me_pustaes for w   eport.
* Xe Sam" is  pwalmt to me U.S. DoUar.



- 14 _
TABLE 4
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison of Appraisal Estimated and Actual Project Costs
Appraisal 1/
Estimate           Actual 31    % Change
A. Urban Employment4
Commercial Estate               27.55 2/      24.12 21    -12.5
Industrial Estate               24.26 21       2.89        -88.1
Sub-Total A:                  51.81         27.01       -47.9
B. Urban Renewal4
Retail Mall                      3.89          0.18        -95.4
Bus Terminal                     1.68          1.19        -29.2
Sub-Total B:                   5.57          1.39        -75.0
C.  Housing and Social Services
Low-Income Housing              33.49         17.31        -48.3
Community Facilities             3.90          6.57        +68.5
Home Improvement Credits         3.73           -             -
Sub-Total C:                  41.12         23.88        -41.9
D. Regional Infrastructure4
Port Improvements                8.85         10.58        +19.5
Interest During Instruction      1.49          2.20        +47.7
Road Improvements                7.98          9.28        +16.3
Regional Education Center        4.73          5.87        +24.1
Recreational Facilities          0.82          0.92        +12.2
Sub-Total D:                  23.89         28.85       +20.90
E.  Technical Assistance4             2.49         0.59        -76.0
F.  Design and Supervision            8.47          -
TOTAL PROJECT COST:          133.33         81.72        -39.0
t/  Includes physical and price contingencies, and design and supervision.
2/  Includes interest during construction.
3/  There are substantial discrepancies in the final costs reported by the
coordinating agency and the executing agencies. The cost table in this
report, except for the housing component is based on data provided by
the coordinating agency.
4/ Cofinanced with the Industrial Bank of Japan.



- 20 -
ROJECT CO"NLETION RPORT
COLON  RUN DEVELOPN   PROJECT (LON 1878-PAN)
Dlvision of Ezecuting Iesnonsibilities
Pro Oct Cgionents                    Inlemnting Aitency
1.  lndustrial Estate            Colon Free Zone (CFZ)
2.  Camercial Zetate             Colon Free Zone (CPZ)
3.  Port Isprovements            National Port Authority (APN)
4.  Retail Hall                  Colon Free Zone (CFZ)
5.  Dus Terminal                 Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
6.  Low-Income Housing           Caja de Ahorrou (CA)
7.  Cumnmity facilities          Caja de Ahorros (CA)
8. lame Improvement Credits      Caja de Ahorros (CA)
9. Reglonal Education Center    Mnistry of Education (MOE)
10. load Improvemets              Mniostry of Public Works (MOP)
11. Recreation Facilitiesa
Ila.  - Lake Oatun Park             Ministry of Public Works (HOP)
llb. - Fort San Lorenao            National Cultural Inatltute (VIAC)
12.  echnlcal Assistance          Minitry of Planning (MPPE)
a



Dill  I                         ('ii I   i               I            w '  1
a                                                    _ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
. TH_
-~ ~    ~ -l-                                   -n-. 
- -H  -- -                                                               1
fmr ___l



