Document of
The World Bank   R   1 16
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2903-PAN
PANAMA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 20, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: US$
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMIENT OF PANAMA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IDAAN     -  National Water Supply and Sewerage Agency
INTEL     -  National Telecommunications Agency
IRHE      -  National Power Company
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
LIBOR     -  London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
SENAFORP  -  The National Professional Development Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTOR BACKGROUND .....................................         1
A.   Country Background ................................       1
B.   The Metropolitan Region ..... ..............              2
C.   Previous Efforts to Improve Low-Income Housing ...        5
II.   THE PROJECT CONCEPT ...................................        6
A.   Background .......    ..................... .6
B.   Design Objectives and Summary Description .........       8
C.   The Employment Strategy .....     .....................  10
D.   The Resource Mobilization Strategy ................    12
III.   DETAILED FEATURES OF THE PROJECT ........... ...........    14
A.   The Urban Employment Sub-Project         ................  14
B.   The Urban Renewal Sub-Project ....       ................    16
C.   The Housing and Social Services Sub-Project ......       17
D.   The Regional Infrastructure Sub-Project . .........    19
E.   The Technical Assistance Sub-Project ............  .     21
F.   Beneficiaries and Risks ..........................    23
IV.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS, AND
LOAN ADMINISTRATION ......      ...........................  25
A.   Cost Estimates ......    .............................   25
B.   Financing Arrangements ............ .. .............    25
C.   Cost Recovery and Affordability .................  .     27
D.   Procurement and Disbursements       ....................  29
V.   COORDINATION, ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .... .....    32
A.   Coordination, Programming, and Engineering    .......    32
B.   Organization .....................................       33
C.   Implementation Procedures - Co-financed Components       35
D.   Implementation Procedures - Bank Financed Components   36
E.   Monitoring ..............                                38
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Panama in December 1979. The mission consisted of R.C. Wildeman (Mission
Leader), E. Canessa, M. Etcheverry, G.C. Guarda, A. Sant'Anna (LCPUR),
A. Alberti, H. Jones, W. Matthey, Z. Shalizi, M. Staab, R. Vinekar (other
Bank staff), R. Palange and R. Sarly (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.  FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  ....................................  38
A.   Introduction   ...... ............. ..................  38
B.  The National Port Authority ....    ..................  39
C.  The  Colon  Free  Zone  ..............................  40
D.  The  Caja  de  Ahorros   ............. .. ...............  44
VII.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION ....     .................    45
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS MADE ...........    49
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Cost Estimates and Engineering Standards
Annex 2:  Implementation Schedule
Annex 3:  Organization Charts
Annex 4: Detailed Financial Projections
Annex 5:  Economic Data
Annex 6:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
PHOTOGRAPHS
MAPS
14676:    Panama - Administrative and Planning Divisions
14677:    Colon Sub-Region
14678:   Project Locations
14679:   Zona Libre - Commercial Area
14680:   Manzanillo Island
14681:   Puerto Escondido Housing Site



I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country Background
Geographic and Administrative Characteristics
1.01      Geographic location and spatial configuration have been Panama's
main natural resources. This is due to the importance of the interoceanic
links provided by the isthmus in different periods of Panama's history and
the dependence of the country's economy on international trade. Urban
development, in particular, has been strongly influenced by the canal and
the commercial-industrial activities it has generated in Panama City and
Colon. The waterway, which began operating in 1914, handles approximately
13,000 ocean-going vessels per year. The canal is the largest single source
of employment in Panama, providing jobs for about 17,000 people.
1.02      The country is divided into nine provinces and 66 municipalities,
which are further subdivided into 505 electoral districts. The provinces are
administrative subdivisions headed by a governor appointed by the Minister
of Government and Justice, whose main function is to serve as the operating
arm of the Central Government in the province. The administration of the
cities and towns is the joint responsibility of a mayor appointed by the
Minister of Government and Justice and a Municipal Council formed by members
of the electoral district. Most taxes, including property and local improve-
ment levies, are collected at the national level by the Ministry of Finance.
All public services such as water and sewerage, power, telecommunications, and
fire and police protection are provided by national agencies, financed either
through tariff charges or Government transfers. This explains the absence of
eiaborate local government machinery.
1.03      For planning purposes, Panama has been divided by the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Policy into four development regions: the Eastern
Region; the Western Region; the Central Region; and the Metropolitan Region,
which includes the Sub-regions of Colon and Panama City. These Regions are
shown in Map 14676.
Socio-Economic Characteristics
1.04      The 1979 population of Panama was estimated at 1.8 million, reflecting
a deceleration in the average annual population growth rate from 2.9% in the
period 1960-70 to 2.7% since 1970. About 51% of the population, or 900,000
people, live in urban areas and the remaining 49% in rural areas (communities
of less than 1500 people). The urban structure of Panama exhibits a striking
degree of primacy, with the urban population heavily concentrated in the
vicinity of Panama City; more than 68% of the urban population, or 614,000
people are concentrated in greater Panama City. Colon, the second most
important city, is located on the Atlantic Coast of the Isthmus adjacent to
the entrance to the Panama Canal. These two cities and their environs form
the trans-isthmic Metropolitan Region. The urban population in this area is
growing at an annual rate of 3.5%, somewhat higher than the national rate of
2.7%. This reflects continued rural out-migration and interregional migratory
flows.
1.05      The economy of Panama relies heavily on a diversified range of
commercial, financial and administrative functions performed by the Metro-
politan Region. These are strongly concentrated in Panama City, which is the



- 2 -
only urban center of national significance.  Its position as the national seat
of government and the principal social, educational and cultural center is
seen in the relative importance of employment in the service sector. Panama
City is also a major center for commercial and financial activities in Latin
America. This role arises from the locational advantages in domestic and
international trade and finance conferred by the Canal, reinforced by liberal
commercial and banking regulations, of duty free zones in Colon and Panama
City, and the existence of an international offshore financial community.
1.06      These advantages brought economic growth as world trade expanded
in the 1950s and 1960s, and stimulated a private construction boom in high
income apartments and office buildings, financed to a considerable extent by
international borrowing channelled through the commercial banks. Rapid
economic growth, which averaged 8% in 1959-1971, slowed in the early 1970's
and the economy has been in recession since 1975 following, inter alia, the
effect of oil price increases, the contraction of bank credit to the private
sector in real terms and the collapse of the construction boom.
B. The Metropolitan Region
Spatial Characteristics and Development Potential
1.07      The Metropolitan Region is expected to continue to play a predominant
role in the economy. In 1978, for example, economic activity was slightly
more concentrated in the provinces of Panama and Colon than in 1970 (72% vs.
68%), even though these two provinces had only half the country's population.
The share of the Metropolitan Region in the output of non-agricultural sectors
was even higher: 76% in manufacturing, 85% in construction, 95% in transport,
90% in warehousing and communications, 84% in commerce, and 95% in finance.
1.08      The increasing concentration of economic activity in the Metro-
politan Region has coincided with a growing imbalance in the spatial distri-
bution of economic activity within the Region itself. The structure of
urban economic activity and population in the 1970s reflects the dispropor-
tionate growth of Panama City in the 1950s and 1960s relative to Colon City.
In addition to these two major urban centers, two spines of economic activity
and population density have developed during the 1970s in the Trans-Isthmic
Corridor (along the Boyd-Roosevelt highway) between Panama City and Greater
Colon, and in the Pacific corridor (along the Pan American Highway) between La
Chorrera and Tocumen. Within this structure, Panama City is the transportation
hub to all other Regions, while Colon's importance derives from its gateway
role at the Atlantic entrance to the Panama Canal, and is the only urban
center of significance on the Atlantic coast of the country. However, the
spatial expansion of these cities and the development of their hinterland has
been grossly distorted by the intrusion of the former Canal Zone. The Metro-
politan Region is shown in Map 14676.
1.09      The recently concluded Canal Treaty, under which designated
areas of the present Canal Zone reverted to Panama, offers the possibility
of re-shaping existing spatial structures, notably in Panama City and Colon.
Substantial areas of these cities where urban expansion previously had been
blocked by the existence of the Zone, diverting settlement around and
beyond this physical obstacle, can now be re-integrated and their future
development established. The property that reverted to Panama in these



- 3 -
two cities includes the ports of Balboa and Cristobal, the Albrook and
France Field Airports which would be suitable for commercial-light industrial
use, and several areas of Canal Zone housing, such as Curundu Heights in
Panama City and Rainbow City in Colon. The former Canal Zone properties
have already been designated as part of the national patrimony. Hence,
urban development policy must now define the guidelines and detailed planning
proposals for these areas and determine, inter alia, land use patterns,
zoning, traffic flows and the type of land tenure regulations to be adopted.
The question of access to these new areas, whether scheduled for residential
or commercial-industrial use, also raises complex issues of welfare and dis-
tribution which have yet to be resolved.
1.10      However, it is equally obvious that detailed planning proposals
can only be established in the light of a series of prior policy decisions
at the highest level. That is, meaningful discussion of the alternative
possible uses of the areas reverting to Panama requires a comprehensive
review of the medium- and long-term growth strategies for the Metropolitan
Region and the national economy. This exercise should seek to identify
longer term dynamic comparative advantages of Panama's Metropolitan Region
and relate the exploitation of these advantages to land use and locational
priorities, particularly those that would facilitate the generation of surplus
from urban activity. The reintegration of Canal Zone areas must, therefore,
be considered initially in the context of macro-economic and sectoral policies
designed to re-vitalize the economy of Colon and reverse the decline and
stagnation of the past several years.
Transportation Network
1.11      The vehicular distance between Panama City and Colon is about 70 km.
The only road link between the two cities is the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway.
Traffic volumes on this road have increased steadily in recent years resulting
in congestion during peak periods. Travel time between these two cities is
about two hours. The volume of traffic over the road is now estimated at
about 12,000 average daily trips. About 66% of this total are automobiles,
31% are commercial trucks and the remaining 3% are buses.
1.12      In addition to regularly scheduled buses, trains provide passenger
service between Panama City and Colon, carrying an average of 2,000 passengers
a day. One scheduled freight train operates daily between the ports of
Cristobal and Balboa. Tocumen International Airport, located on the outskirts
of Panama City, is served by 25 international passenger and freight airlines.
Non-scheduled flights bringing or taking Free Zone freight get virtually
automatic landing rights, either at Tocumen or Colon's much smaller France
Field Airport. About 75% of the import and export cargo of the country is
handled by the canal ports of Cristobal and Balboa located respectively on the
Atlantic and Pacific side of the isthmus. Elsewhere in the country there are
smaller ports used primarily for the export of agricultural products and
transhipment of petroleum.
Employment and Income
1.13      Evaluation of trends in unemployment in the Metropolitan Region is
complicated by fluctuations in the size of the labor force arising from
short-run changes in the labor force participation (LFP) rate. This rate has
fallen significantly from 62-63% in the early 1970's when the level of employ-
mernt continued to expand, to 54% in March 1977, reflecting the depressed



-4-
state of the urban labor market. Moreover, the level of employment has fallen
in absolute terms since 1974. The observed rate of unemployment, although
high at 9%, probably underestimates the true magnitude of the problem, since
it does not take into account the high levels of underemployment and marginal
employment. Unofficial reports indicate that the rate may be as high as 20%.
1.14      As a broad generalization, the proportion of the urban population
living in absolute poverty is not very large. Nevertheless, a high proportion
of the residents in the Metropolitan Region fall below the Bank's relative
poverty level definition for Panama of average monthly family earnings of
US$184. An estimated 33% of all families, or 216,000 people in the Metropo-
litan Region are in the relative poverty category, which almost certainly
includes the majority of families in the congested, decaying slum tenements
and squatter settlements of Panama City and Colon. There is also evidence of
marked inequality in income distribution. For example, households at or below
the relative poverty definition receive only about 8% of the total income for
the Metropolitan Region. Roughly 10% of all households live in absolute
poverty with monthly incomes below US$75.
Access to Services
1.15      With the probable exception of small segments of the slum tenement
and squatter population, there is no evidence that severe malnutrition is
widespread nor of a chronic incidence of debilitating diseases. In fact,
there are various indications of improving conditions of public health and
sanitation over the last eight or ten years coincident with the increasing
coverage of public health facilities and public investment in water and
sewerage systems. For example, the death rate per 100,000 inhabitants from
enteritis and other diarrheic diseases, frequently associated with impure
water and aggravated by malnutrition, has declined from 38.8 to 25.6 in the
period 1971-75. Similarly, in the Metropolitan Region, over 90% of all live
births in 1975 occurred in the presence of a physician. About 95% of the
population has access to public potable water supply and 72% to public sewerage
systems.
1.16      This extensive and increasing coverage, together with the concomitant
expansion of access to public services, probably explains the decline in infant
mortality rates and increase in average life expectancy. Of course, this does
not imply that access to public services is sufficiently well distributed to
ensure that all urban groups can benefit from a minimum acceptable degree of
coverage. However, it provides convincing evidence that the issue is neither
one of an absolute lack of access or of coverage, but rather one of extending,
intensifying and improving the degree of provision. To support such an effort,
fiscal resources will have to be increased.
Low Income Housing and Inner City Slums
1.17      Two basic types of sub-standard housing can be distinguished in
both the central city and peripheral areas of Colon and Panama City; inner
city slum tenements and spontaneous squatter settlements. The majority of
slum tenements, specifically two-story wooden structures, were built before
World War I to house migrant workers employed in the construction of the
Panama Canal. Even at that time, these houses were regarded as temporary
housing by virtue of the construction materials and their design; they were
mainly single room units with communal sanitary facilities. Concentrations
of these pre-WWI tenements occur in both cities.



-5-
1.18      The inner city areas of slum tenements represent extreme cases of
urban decay, despite their frequent proximity to high value residential and
commercial property. The tenement buildings are often in an advanced state
of disrepair and their structural weaknesses are plainly visible, including
bulging outer walls temporarily buttressed by wooden supports and corrugated
iron sheeting. In some cases, notably in the Barrio Norte area of Colon,
interior walls, roofs, and even outer retaining walls have collapsed but
occupation continues in those parts of the structure which still afford
shelter. The physical deterioration is such that large numbers of tenement
buildings have been condemned by public safety authorities. Rents in these
tenements fall to zero if the building is condemned, attracting more poor
households and aggravating overcrowding.
1.19      Recent areas surveyed by the Ministry of Housing, show over-crowded
living space and congested basic sanitary facilities as a critical feature of
the inadequate housing conditions of poor families. One-room households as a
proportion of all households in the tenement areas are in excess of 75%. On
average, there are approximately eight families per toilet and nine families
per bath. More generally, the Ministry of Housing has used census data to
estimate the size of the housing deficit in terms of such criteria as the
number of families inhabiting tenements, squatter settlements, overcrowded
housing and sub-standard housing. The data show a 1977 deficit of 185,000
units for the country as a whole, including 80,000 in the Metropolitan Region.
C. Previous Efforts to Improve Low-Income Housing
Housing Construction and Finance
1.20      The Ministry of Housing is endowed with wide powers in the formula-
tion and execution of urban development programs and public housing schemes.
The Ministry has established housing ccmmissions throughout the country to
administer the rent control system which was introduced in the late 1940's.
In addition to its activities in policy formation and urban planning, the
Ministry of Housing also is heavily engaged in implementation. This dual
function is readily apparent in the housing sector, where the Ministry of
Housing establishes general policy guidelines, designs public housing projects
and undertakes their execution, either by supervising private contractors
or using its own construction equipment and personnel.
1.21      Since its creation in 1973, the Ministry of Housing has rapidly
increased its housing construction from a level of 1,200 units in 1974
to 8,000 units in 1979. Almost all efforts, however, have been directed
at housing construction--little or none at financial intermediation--with
the net result that the financial position of the Banco Hipotecario Nacional,
the credit arm of the Ministry of Housing has been severely eroded over
the last few years. The existence of rent controls tends to discourage
private initiative in the provision of low-income housing. The Government
has agreed that the impact of controls should be studied and possible changes
should be recommended (para. 3.27).
1.21      The Banco Hipotecario Nacional was established as a subordinate
agency of the Ministry of Housing to undertake the financial management of
the Ministry's activities and also promote the expansion of private housing
finance. This expansion was to be achieved by strengthening the savings and



loan system and, eventually, by creating a secondary mortgage market.
Little progress has been made in this direction, despite recent loans for
this purpose by USAID.
The Role of Women
1.23      Households in Colon are not, for the most part, organized around
nuclear, legally constituted families headed by men. Thirty-two percent of
the families in the city have women as heads of households. These women are,
for the most part, young single mothers. Although many participate in the
labor force, their rate of unemployment is significantly higher than that of
men. When employed, their earnings average 43% below male earnings. Part of
this earnings differential can be explained by the fact that women seldom
have had access to Canal and Free Zone jobs - the best paid in the city -
but, additionally, their relative lack of skills constitute a serious constraint.
Child care responsibilities is the next most important factor limiting the
earnings capacity of women heads of households. A large number of women in
Colon receive benefits from the emergency welfare program, and a disproportionate
number of them are among the very poor.
1.24      Women's access to housing in previous projects of the Ministry of
Housing was limited not only by their lack of capacity to pay but, more often,
by the institutional requirement which sets loan repayments through automatic
payroll deductions. This requirement tended to exclude a great many working
women who are either self-employed, or are domestic or informal sector workers.
As a result, practically no women heads of households have in the past,
applied for housing in Colon. Given this set of constraints an extremely
large number of women heads of households are, in practice, excluded from new
housing and employment.
II. THE PROJECT CONCEPT
A. Background
Origin
2.01      The heavy concentration of urban population in the vicinity of
Panama City and Colon on the Atlantic side of the isthmus accounts for the
decision to concentrate on the country's single, dominant Metropolitan Region.
This decision is also dictated by the view that the magnitude and intensity of
the problems firmly establish the Region as the principal focus of urban
development policies. These problems are perhaps most apparent in Colon,
where economic stagnation and poor investment climate is, in part, a result of
the distorted spatial development patterns produced by the intrusion of the
former Canal Zone, particularly the distinct enclave effect on Manzanillo
Island. As shown in Map 14677, suburban expansion has been forced into areas
beyond the jurisdiction of the former Canal Zone, which are a considerable
distance from the city center and the main sources of employment.
2.02      Despite such initiatives by the Government as the construction
of a free zone and an oil refinery, Colon failed to accompany the rapid
growth of Panama from the 1950's until the early 1970's, while the migration
of members of its business and professional classes to Panama City has



diminished the community's capacity to reverse its secular decline. The
political implications of Colon's depressed state and its objective conse-
quences in terms of unemployment, poverty, delinquency and urban blight,
allied to increasingly heated protests of official neglect and unequal treat-
ment by the Government, have lent great urgency to the formulation of programs
and projects for the city. The reversion to Panama of the former Canal Zone
territory on the immediate outskirts of Colon provides the opportunity to
promote the integrated development of the hitherto-isolated central core
and its suburban hinterland, while creating the additional employment which
is a precondition to any mitigation of the city's poverty.
The Setting
2.03      The people of Colon, descended mainly from migrant Caribbean
workers employed in the construction of the Canal, have maintained separate
ethnic and cultural traditions. This tendency has been accentuated by
the physical isolation created by the former Canal Zone. Population
densities average 294 inhabitants per hectare in central Colon and rise
sharply to 1500 in the tenement districts. The central city had 67,800 in-
habitants in 1970. It is estimated that the central city population has
declined slightly as a result of suburbanization, and that as a result of
outmigration the population of greater Colon has grown less rapidly than
the average national net rate of reproduction.
2.04      The conditions described previously in slum tenements and squatter
settlements (paras. 1.17-1.19) are accentuated in Colon. According to a 1975
estimate, 60% of all dwellings fall below acceptable structural standards,
including slum tenements (10,449), improvised housing (871) and houses in
areas inappropriate for residential purposes (279). This proportion would
rise to 80% if overcrowding were taken into account. The bulk of the housing
stock comprises slum tenement buildings in which households renting a single
room form the major tenancy group. In fact, rental housing accounts for 88%
of all dwellings in Colon. Rents in the slum tenements are low, with 45%
below US$25 per month in 1978, and poor households with monthly incomes under
US$165 devoted roughly 15% of their total expenditures to housing.
2.05      Since the immediate postwar period following the decline of defence-
related contracts in the former Canal Zone, the economy of the city has
continuously deteriorated. This is shown by the rates of unemployment, which
were 18.7% in 1950, 21.5% in 1960 and 17.4% in 1970. Current unofficial
estimates fall in the range of 25-35%. The proportion of unemployed persons
without previous employment experience has risen from 6% in 1950, to 19% in
1960 and 30% in 1970.
The Concept
2.06      In great measure the success achieved in restoring urban economic
growth and generating new sources of employment in Colon will determine the
rate at which low income groups improve their housing conditions and access
to urban services. In Colon, as in many other cities throughout the world,
attainment of a certain minimum level of income which is sufficient to
establish the household's capacity to meet mortgage repayments remains the
sine qua non for access to low income housing programs. With this in mind,
low income housing has been linked closely and explicitly with the development



-8-
of the city as an economic activity. This will be accompanied by an expansion
of, and new type investment by the Colon Free Zone (paras. 2.12-2.14), to be
financed entirely by private commercial banks (para. 2.16).
2.07      The low income groups of Colon are pre-eminently city dwellers with
an urban culture. The project concept recognizes this, and is based on the
premise that an improvement of their living conditions will be more effective
by providing a progressive development of low income housing solutions within
reasonable distance to employment under appropriate norms and standards,
including a complete range of community facilities. So that low-income
housing construction will have continuity, savings and home credit have been
institutionalized where the Government's role will be in support of, and not
in lieu of, private funding (paras. 2.17-2.21).
2.08      Explicit measures will be introduced to improve the competitive
position of women. First, the broadening of income requirements (para. 2.18)
will benefit many women previously excluded from the home mortgage market.
Second, in the implementation of the housing component, a concerted community
program will be undertaken by the Ministry of Housing to promote applications
by women. Women will also be encouraged to enroll in training programs
designed to increase their access to the new jobs created by the project.
The Regional Education Center Component (paras. 3.23-3.25) has been designed
to respond to the specific needs of women students by providing child care
facilities on the premises, by actively encouraging women to enroll, and by
providing diversity and flexibility of curricula. This, combined with the
growing employment opportunities should progressively widen the occupational
choices available to women.
2.09      It is also recognized that to reverse the secular decline of the
area and to broaden its economic base, the availability of a wider range of
urban services must be provided. The educational system and in particular
post secondary institutions, for example, play an important role in the
provision of skilled workers. Higher household incomes and greater propensity
to consume transport service means an increased demand for public transport-
ation and recreational facilities, particularly among the lower income
groups. In addition, the growing container traffic to the Free Zone makes it
important for the success of its operations that the Port of Cristobal be
better equipped for handling containers. Correspondingly, the increased
volume of traffic generated as a result of the industrial activity will place
added congestion on the roads. Thus, the project concept includes specific
components to improve the general efficiency of the urban and regional
services delivery system.
B. Design Objectives and Summary Description
2.10      The project has been designed to assist the Government develop
a public investment strategy which will promote a balanced provision of
jobs and services, while making a special effort toward poverty alleviation
and more efficient urban management. Thus, the objectives of the project are
to:
(i) coordinate the provision of housing, the attraction of
industry, and the organization of training programs giving
priority to the existing residents of Colon;



(ii) establish an appropriate institutional and policy framework
for public sector investments of this kind;
(iii)  include a co-financing arrangement with a group of private
commercial banks; and
(iv) stimulate savings for low-income housing and develop a
secondary mortgage market.
Summary Description
2.11      The proposed project will be implemented during 1980-83 and is
divided into five major sub-projects: (i) urban employment; (ii) urban
renewal; (iii) housing and social services; (iv) regional infrastructure; and
(v) technical assistance. Each sub-project is further divided into components.
With the exception of the urban renewal sub-project, all construction will
take place on land that has reverted under the Canal Treaty. Special care
has been taken in the design of the project to ensure that environmental
damage will be minimized. The location of each component, except Fort San
Lorenzo, is shown on Map 14678, and is consistent with the general land use
plan approved by the Government for the area. Implementation will be carried
out in phases during the 1980-83 period. Each of the components is detailed
in Chapter III. All costs are inclusive of physical and price contingencies.
(a) The Urban Employment Sub-project - costing US$56.0 million is
designed to create about 8,000 permanent jobs at an average cost
of about US$7,000 per job by constructing facilities for free zone
operations. The poverty impact of these jobs is high, since most of
them are expected to be filled by workers from the low income groups.
The sub-project will comprise two components:
(i)  a commercial estate - consisting of an extension to the
Free Zone's existing duty-free commercial area, including
land development and related infrastructure; and
(ii) an industrial estate - consisting of a general purpose
industrial estate catering primarily to assembly
operations and manufacturing, including land develop-
ment, related infrastructure, and the construction of
several standard factory buildings.
(b) The Urban Renewal Sub-Project - costing US$6.5 million is designed
to create about 350 permanent jobs and to act as a catalyst in the
rehabilitation of a blighted area adjacent to the Cristobal Port
cruise ship terminal in Central Colon. This initiative is intended
to stimulate a favorable investment climate for private sector entre-
preneurs to undertake complementary urban renewal projects within
the same area. The sub-project will comprise two components:
(i)  a retail mall - consisting of the construction of a
retail center in downtown Colon and the provision of
complementary facilities aimed at the tourist trade; and
(ii) a bus terminal - consisting of the demolition and
removal of some condemned tenement buildings which will
be replaced by a new bus terminal near the site of the
proposed retail mall;



- 10 -
(c)  The Housing and Social Services Sub-Project - costing US$43.5 million
is designed to increase the low-income housing stock in Colon and to
provide a range of shelter options within a reasonable distance of
employment under appropriate norms and standards, including urban
services and community facilities. The sub-project will comprise
three components:
(i)  low income housing - consisting of a 161 ha site to be
urbanized in three separate phases over four years, including
the construction of 3,725 houses at three different service
levels as well as the construction of about 300 low income
apartment units in downtown Colon.
(ii) community facilities - consisting of a complete range of
neighborhood facilities including schools, playgrounds,
a health center, a firehouse and a police station; and
(iii) home improvement credits - to provide small loans to residents
of the project area for home expansion and improvements.
(d)  The Regional Infrastructure Sub-Project - costing US$25.3 million is
designed to improve the general efficiency of the urban and regional
services delivery system and will comprise four components, each of
which has direct linkages to the other components:
(i)  port improvements - consisting of an extension to the existing
container handling facility of the Port of Cristobal;
(ii) road improvements - consisting of capacity improvements to two
sections of the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway between Colon and its
suburb of Cativa;
(iii) a regional education center - to provide vocational training
facilities aimed primarily at Free Zone requirements in a
single complex of multiple services sharing such common
facilities as classrooms, laboratories and workshops; and
(iv) recreational facilities - consisting of the construction of
a nature park to be located on the shore of Lake Gatun, and
the restoration of a historical tourist attraction located
at the mouth of the River Chagres, on the Atlantic side of
the Panama Canal;
(e) The Technical Assistance Sub-project - costing US$2 million will
provide consulting and extension services related to program develop-
ment, project monitoring and evaluation, urban transport operations
management, port operations and professional development.
C. The Employment Strategy
2.12      The employment strategy is quite innovative in that it tackles the
fundamental challenge of creating a significant number of new jobs during the
1980-84 period.



- 11 -
This will be accomplished in two ways: (i) through the construction industry;
and (ii) through prime job creating activities of the Free Zone and tourist
services.
Impact of Construction
2.13      The project will entail significant construction expenditures for
earth moving, sewerage and stormwater drainage, and the construction of roads,
factory buildings, housing and community facilities. The construction expendi-
tures are expected to generate about 3,000 direct full-time jobs over a
four-year period, which will be replaced by permanent jobs once the first
phase of the Free Zone expansion has been completed.
The Colon Free Zone
2.14      The project's principal impact on urban employment will be the
creation of an estimated 8,000 permanent jobs in the Free Zone (a full
discussion of the Free Zone is contained in Chapter VI). To achieve
this, an active campaign to attract business to the Free Zone is being
undertaken. This effcrt includes:
(i) Marketing and Promotion. A key component is the research effort
aimed at identifying the kinds of industries which are likely
to be attracted to Panama. This work will be supported through the
technical assistance sub-project. An extensive marketing and
promotion effort, including a continuous advertising campaign, will
be part of the follow-up efforts. A particularly important part of
the marketing activity is the emphasis on building close working
relationships with the offshore banking community and the private
industrial community in general.
(ii) Creation of a Land Inventory. Under the recently concluded Canal
Treaty, about 500 hectares of additional land have been made
available to the Free Zone for industrial expansion. Control
of this land is a major strength of the Free Zone's industrial
promotion plan. Interested industrialists will be offered
sites with outline planning permission at a fixed price, and
the delays usually associated with land purchase should be
eliminated. Controlling this inventory of land, which borders on
the site of a future container port, means that the Free Zone can
conserve the area for suitable industry and ensure that it is
not developed for other purposes.
(iii) Advance Provision of Factory Buildings. Provision of custom-
built warehouses and large factory buildings is increasingly
important in competing for overseas industry. Part of the
expansion strategy entails identifying the mix of industrial
sites and warehouse structures that will be required to meet
the employment targets. Whenever possible, the supply of sites
and structures will lead demand so that the needs of the
industrialists for space expansion can be met quickly.
(iv) Provision of Executive Housing. The availability of houses at
competitive prices and the assurance that mortgage finance will
be available are also valuable incentives in promoting the
establishment of new industries. The Free Zone has invested



- 12 -
US$1.5 million in this area in the past and will continue to ensure
that suitable houses are available for industry executives, most of
whom will be brought in by parent companies from outside the
country. Although this function is part of the Free Zone promotion
package, it is expected that it will be implemented by private
housing developers, so that no provision has been made for future
investment by the Free Zone.
(v) Manpower Training. The industrial expansion strategy will ensure
that a complete range of training opportunities is available in
Colon and, in particular, ensure that skill-training programs
match the needs of the new industries. The Free Zone is in an
extremely strong position to convey knowledge about future patterns
of industrial development to the network of agencies responsible for
manpower training. Frequent surveys will be undertaken to monitor
the training needs of the industrialists.
(vi) Risk Capital. The commercial banking system is expected to
continue to provide short, medium and long-term risk finance to
larger businesses. Fixed assets and working capital financing
will be available to smaller entrepreneurs through the Banco
Nacional de Panama, the repository of Government Funds, or the
Corporacion Financiera Nacional, a Government-owned agency
created to finance smaller scale entrepreneurs. It will not be
necessary, therefore, for the Free Zone to make special arrange-
ments to supply industry with working capital.
D. The Resource Mobilization Strategy
Introduction
2.15      The resource mobilization strategy is a second innovative feature
of the project. Two categories of finance distinguish this strategy:
(i) Industrial Finance, and (ii) Housing Finance.
Industrial Finance
2.16      The economic development strategy requires the ready availability of
capital, either in the form of direct borrowings or lease back arrangements to
finance expansion and modernization schemes. In line with this need and the
objective of increasing the multiplier effect of resource transfers in Bank-
financed projects, the industrial finance strategy includes a co-financing
arrangement with a Japanese banking institution. This will be the first
application of such an arrangement in the urban sector in Latin America. This
arrangement is particularly well suited for Free Zone type operations. First,
they are commercial, self-liquidating, real estate investments; second, the
space will be leased to internationally well-known companies; and third, the
Colon Free Zone, which will be the borrower, has a history of profitability
making it quite attractive to commercial banks.
Housing Finance
2.17      Breaking with past tradition in the low-income housing sector in
Panama, the proposed project will establish a clear separation between
housing finance and housing construction. The low-income housing and



-13 -
community facilities sub-projects will be implemented by the Ministry of
Housing, but the financial intermediary will be the Caja de Ahorros, a
Government owned savings and loan association which operates as a private
bank. The purpose of this arrangement is to decentralize the responsibility
for low-income housing from one institution, to increase the role of
financial intermediation, and to develop an institutional framework capable
of attracting private sector capital. This will be the first Bank-financed
initiative of this nature in Latin America.
2.18      Until recently, the Caja's focus was concentrated almost exclusively
on moderate income housing, but has now begun tailoring its programs to the
lower income groups, working with both private contractors and Government
agencies. Credit conditions have been geared to the limited capacity to pay of
the low income groups. The minimum income requirement has, for example, been
broadened to include the earnings of all family members living within the
same household, and would include earnings from both the formal and informal
sectors, as well as transfer payments. Where there is a conventional family
unit, joint tenancy is the normal policy. Where the household is headed by
a female, however, title registration is required to be in her name, thus
protecting her right of eminent domain while at the same time increasing
family stability.
2.19      Aggressive solicitation of savings is a hallmark of the Caja de
Ahorros. In fact, over 90% of its capital is derived from savings. The Caja
requires that each new borrower open a savings account equivalent to one
month's mortgage payment. The Caja de Ahorros intends to extend this program
to the lower income groups. A major objective of the project, therefore,
will be to channel private savings from all income levels into low-income
housing. Because of its efficient administration, the Caja de Ahorros has
always been profitable, and it has been able to maintain tight control over a
fairly decentralized operation. The Caja de Ahorros has acquired a great
deal of experience with conventional housing programs, providing both interim
construction financing and mortgage underwriting. The institution has a
management contract with the Citibank for collection of about US$20 million
in mortgages, and is also handling a loan contract between Immobilaria de
Panama and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, which provided US$2 million
in mortgage financing for a housing project.
2.20      The Caja de Ahorros also has contingency line-of-credit contracts
with various local and foreign banking institutions up to US$10 million.
It has not utilized any of these lines of credit, and a key strategy of the
project will be to take advantage of them to stimulate a secondary mortgage
market in home mortgages. The secondary market would not, however, engage
in direct lending on mortgages or bear the risk of the burden of servicing
mortgages. The advantages of such a strategy are that it would:
(i) provide additional funds to the Caja de Ahorros while stimulating
private sector participation in the low-income housing sector;
(ii) create an effective way of channeling private savings into
low-income residential construction; and
(iii)  increase the multiplier effect of the project and hence the
scope for replicability on a large scale basis by reducing
dependence on the fiscal resources of the Government.



- 14 -
2.21      The Caja de Ahorros primarily uses a variable interest mortgage
instrument for making loans. Under this system, mortgages are amortized on
a 15-25 year basis. Normally, interest rates are adjusted every 5 years.
More recently they have been adjusted annually. This assures that over
time interest rates charged to the ultimate beneficiary will be positive
in real terms. The mortgagor has the option of renewing or paying off the
mortgage and refinancing elsewhere, but that is not much of an option since
the interest rate elsewhere is likely to be as high or higher.
III. DETAILED FEATURES OF THE PROJECT
A. The Urban Employment Sub-Prolect
Introduction
3.01      The Free Zone expansion would be adjacent to a 13-ha site already
being developed across Manzanilln Bay from the original commercial park.
During 1978, a total of 22,000 m  of factory and warehouse spa ce in seven
structures were completed in this location. Another 43,000 m will be
completed in 1980. The current construction program, including land fill,
roads, utility infrastructure and buildings represents an investment of US$8.8
million. Building densities average 65% of urbanized land, which is somewhat
higher than the 40-50% generally specified for development of this kind.
3.02      More than 100 firms have applied for additional space in the expan-
sion area (some of them presently cramped for lack of space in the 2existing
Free Zone), representing an unsatisfied demand for about 125,000 m of leased
building space, or the equivalent of about 20 ha of urbanized land. Other
firms have applied for about 10 ha of land on which owner-financed buildings
will be erected, raising the required amount of urbanized land to about 30 ha.
3.03      The demand for commercial and industrial facilities will be met
through the development of two separate parcels of land in the expansion
area, one as an extension of the Free Zone's duty-free commercial area and
the second as a general purpose industrial estate catering primarily to
assembly operations and manufacturing. The commercial area comprises 123 ha
of land extending east from Manzanillo Bay to the France Field Airport, and
bounded on the south by the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway. The industrial site
comprises 250 ha east of the airport, also bounded on the south by the same
highway.
The Commercial Component
3.04      This component, whose estimated cost is US$29.6 million (including
interest during construction of US$6.2 million) is physically an extension of
the 13-ha site currently under development (para 3.01), and will be occupied
primarily by duty-free warehouse and commercial operations similar to those
already established in the Free Zone. The component will consist of 35 ha to
be fully urbanized and will be carried out in two phases of 13 ha and 22 ha
respectively. An additional 13 ha will be filled and levelled. The new
leasable are2 will be about 69%, or 24 ha of urbanized land at a cost of    2
US$105 per m , and 9 ha of filled and levelled land at a cost of US$48 per m



- 15 -
All buildings will be owner financed and constructed. The remaining 75 ha
will be urbanized in subsequent phases. Map 14679 shows the detailed site
plan. A marketing forecast prepared by the Free Zone indicates that this
schedule will provide expansion facilities in accordance with projected
demand. About 3,000 additional permanent jobs are expected to be created
(para. 3.08).
3.05      Specifically, the component will consist of:
(i)  about 840,000 m  of land fill trucked from the industrial site to
be graded and compacted in six-inch layers elevating the commercial
site by an average of one meter above the present level, or as
required to make it suitable for buildings;
(ii) paved internal roads, parking lots for trucks, buses and auto-
mobiles, and a grade level junction with the existing Randolph
Road;
(iii) on-site water distribution and sewerage facilities;
(iv) storm water drainage canals; and
(v) on-site power, telephone, and telex facilities.
The Industrial Component
3.06      This component will support investments of US$26.4 million (including
interest during construction of US$5.6 million). Of the 250 ha earmarked for
assembly and manufacturing operations, 58 ha of this land will be levelled,
while an additional 70 ha will be cleared of vegetation (the cost of which has
been charged to the commercial area). Land development and building construction
will be carried out in phases during the project implementation period. Of the
58 ha that will be levelled, 35 ha will be full! urbanized.  The leasable area will
be about 69%, or 24 ha2at a cost of US$65 per m . About 5 ha will be occupied
initially by 13-4090 m buildings built by the Free Zone for rental at a cost of
about US$243 per m , and the remaining 30 ha will be leased as urbanized land to
firms constructing their own buildings. The buildings will be steel frame shells
with a concrete floor and a light metal roof. Free Zone estimates, which are
based on a feasibility study prepared by an independent consulting firm, show that
this implementation schedule will provide facilities in accordance with the antici-
pated demand. About 5,000 additional permanent jobs are expected to be created
(para 3.08).
3.07      Specifically, the component will consist of:
(i) levelling and grading of four hills as needed to make the area
suitable for buildings;
(ii) paved internal roads, parking lots for trucks, buses and
automobiles, and a grade level junction with the Boyd-
Roosevelt Highway;
(iii) on-site water distribution and sewerage facilities;



- 16 -
(iv) storm water drainage canals; and
(v) on-site power, telephone, and telex facilities.
Cost per Job
3.08      The investment cost per job, excluding interest during construction,
is about US$5500 in prices of 1982. This is comparable to other similar
investments in the Caribbean Area with an investment cost per job estimated at
US$5000 in prices of 1982. A total cost per job figure including the invest-
ment by firms cannot be estimated with any accuracy since many of the client
firms have not been identified. Based on experience in other Bank-assisted
projects in Latin America, an estimate of about US$15,000 of total investment
per direct job is reasonable. It should be noted, however, that much of this
cost represents the investment of incremental foreign capital with no oppor-
tunity cost to Panama.
B. The Urban Renewal Sub-Project
The Retail Mall Component
3.09      The creation of a retail mall consists of the commercial and
touristic development of several selected blocks in central Colon.
It includes the construction of an enclosed shopping area, the restoration
of the adjacent area and the creation of additional tourist facilities.
The mall will be located on the waterfront at the convergence point of
sea and land transportation thus providing optimal accessibility to tourists.
The design of this component is consistent with the local historical and
cultural environment, maximizing the utilization of existing facilities
and preserving the unique character of the existing buildings. Furthermore,
the mall has been designed in such a way as to develop strategically
located urban renewal growth poles to set the stage for future expansion.
3.10      The major objective of the mall is to attract tourism to Colon.
It will bring in cruiseship passengers and other travellers in transit, as
well as high-income tourists from South and Central America taking advantage
of duty-free shopping. In addition to providing a variety of sales outlets
and tourist facilities to serve these visitors, the creation of the mall
will lead to the involvement of the local business community and of the Free
Zone in the development of Manzanillo Island. This, combined with the oppor-
tunities brought about by the increased activity and attractiveness of the
mall, would help to stimulate further urban renovation of the island.
3.11      The estimated cost of this component is US$4.6 million.  Specifi-
cally, the component will consist of the construction of:
(i)  a three-story building with a total area of about 5,700 m2
including central air conditioning, four passenger
elevators and a cargo lift;
(ii)  a 4,000 m  paved automobile parking lot;
(iii)  the restoration of streets surrounding the mall building and the
provision of roofed street crossings, lamp posts and landscaping.



The Bus Terminal Component
3.12      This component, whose total estimated cost is US$1.9 million, will
comprise the first stage of a 9roposed two-stage bus depot covering a total
area of approximately 11,000 m . The bus terminal will provide 8 operating
bays to consolidate local and inter-city bus travel. The volume of existing
bus movement into and out of the city averages 432 vehicles each way per day.
This represents about 58% of the total daily vehicle trips of all travellers
to Colon. As a result of the proposed project, demand by the end of 1985 is
expected to increase by 56% or a total of 674 vehicles each way. Specifically,
the sub-project will consist of the construction of:
(i)  a two-story building containing 3,300 m  of floor space for
administration and ticket offices, shops and waiting rooms; and
(ii)  a 6,000 m  paved bus parking lot.
C. The Housing and Social Services Sub-Project
Introduction
3.13      The low-income housing site, where most of the residential develop-
ment will take place, has been named Puerto Escondido. Formerly part of the
Canal Zone, it consists of 161 ha of land extending south from the Boyd-
Roosevelt Highway, bounded on the east by Hardmon Road, and on the south and
west by the existing residential areas of Gulick Heights and Margarita. Its
topography is rugged, with level differences of up to 50 m and slopes of up
to 40%. However, these difficulties are offset by positive features; the site
is within 3 km of the downtown and industrial areas, adjoins the Boyd-Roosevelt
Highway, and is accessible to existing utility infrastructure. The next closest
suitable site is located in Cativa, about 12 km from the downtown area. It was
agreed during negotiations that the availability of this land will be a condition
of disbursement for this sub-project.
3.14      Residential development will take place in three phases of 31 ha,
46 ha, and 41 ha respectively over four years, or a total of 118 ha during the
implementation period. The remaining 43 ha will be developed in subsequent
phases. Land use has been designated at 38% for residential housing, 3% for
commercial facilities, 20% for community facilities, 21% for circulation, and
18% as unusable. Gross densities will be in the order of 170 people per
hectare. This is acceptable given the topography and environmental conditions
of the area. The development has been based on a general site plan shown as
Map 14681. Limited residential development will also take place in Central
Colon. Phase 1 of the general site plan for Puerto Escondido has already
been agreed with the Bank. It was agreed during negotiations that no disburse-
ment on account of expenditures in phases 2 and 3 or for residential development
in Central Colon will be made until a detailed plan of each phase showing works
to be performed, housing options provided, schedule of implementation, and esti-
mated costs has been agreed with the Bank.



- 18 -
The Low Income Housing Component
3.15      This component will support investments of US$29.5 million (net of
US$6.2 million in infrastructure costs allocated to the community facilities)
Residential development will take place in two locations; Puerto Escondido and
Central Colon. Puerto Escondido will consist of the construction of 3,725
units in 3 phases of 1,174 units, 1,526 units, and 1,025 units respectively,
serving a population of 20,000 people. Each phase will include piped water,
sewerage, surface drains and electricity. Three shelter options at different
service levels, all with domestic water and sewerage connections will be
be offered (see paras 4.06-4.11 for discussion on affordability). About 300
apartment units will be provided on Manzanillo Island, serving a population of
1,500 people.
3.16      Specifically the component will consist of:
Puerto Escondido
(i) levelling and grading as needed to make the area suitable for
houses;
(ii)  paved internal roads and footpaths;
(iii) on-site electricity, water distribution and sewerage facilities;
(iv)  stormwater drainage canals;
(v)  3,725 dwelling units, of which 60% or 2,235 units will be
25 m  expandable core houses and sell f2r an average price of
US$5,593; 21% or 790 units will be 36 m expandable one
bedroom houses which will sell for an averape price of
US$7,620, and 19% or 700 units will be 40 m two bedroom
houses which will sell for an average price of US$8,256; and
Central Colon
(vi) 4 75-unit apartment blocks at a cost of about US$350,000 each.
The Community Facilities Component
3.17      This component, whose estimated cost is US$11.0 million (including
US$6.2 million of infrastructure costs), will support investments for the
construction of a complete range of community facilities. Specifically, this
component will consist of the construction of:
(i)  four schools including the purchase of equipment;
(ii)  a public library, a cultural center, a health center,
a fire station and a police station;
(iii) a baseball field, a football field and three basketball
courts; and
(iv)  several small parks and playgrounds.
The Home-Improvement Credits Component
3.18      This component, whose estimated cost is US$3.0 million, will pro-
vide small credits to residents of the project area for home expansion and



- 19 -
improvements. The availability of credit will be publicized. These credits
will carry interest at 12% per annum, will be repayable in up to 17 years, and
will finance up to 90% of the total cost.
D. The Regional Infrastructure Sub-Project
Introduction
3.19      The sub-project is aimed at improving the general level of regional
efficiency (para. 2.09), and includes the following components to deal with
these requirements.
The Port Improvements Component
3.20      This component, whose estimated cost is US$10.8 million, will improve
the capacity and efficiency of the existing container handling facilities at
the Port of Cristobal. Specifically, this component will consist of:
(i) the demolition of a transit shed and freight house to provide
additional apron space on two piers;
(ii)  8 ha of paved yard for container storage;
(iii) a control tower and security fence;
(iv)  a 4,500 m  container consolidation shed;
(v)  a 1,400 m  shop for the repair and maintenance of mobile
equipment;
(vi)  the purchase of container handling equipment, including transfer/
stacking units, chassis, dollies, forklifts, spotting and towing
tractors; and
(vii) the purchase of computer and communications equipment for
monitoring container operations.
The Road Improvements Component
3.21      This component, whose estimated cost is US$8.6 million, will increase
the capacity of the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway between central Colon and its
suburb of Cativa, through road widening, one way traffic controls, and prin-
cipal junction improvements. Specifically, this component will consist of:
(i) widening 6.25 km length of the Boyd Roosevelt Highway
to convert it into a 4-lane divided highway, including
the widening of 3 bridges (standards are summarized in
Annex 1);
(ii)  strengthening and widening 2.9 km of Randolph Road
between the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway and the Bolivar
Highway and strengthening the latter as far as
Manzanillo Island;



- 20 -
(iii) improvements to ten road junctions; and
(iv) supervision of the works including logistic support.
Recreational Facilities Component
3.22      This component, whose estimated cost is US$1.0 million, will
support investments for (a) the creation of Gatun Lake Park, a 20 ha fresh
water facility (the first such facility to be located on former Canal Zone
lands) with a capacity of 150 people at a time; and (b) the restoration of
Fort San Lorenzo, established in 1575 at the mouth of the Chagres River
and now a tourist attraction for the area. Specifically, this component
consists of the construction of:
(i) 2.5 km of paved access road and a parking lot for 30 vehicles;
(ii)  a floating platform and a deck for small boats;
(iii)  a 300 m2 administration building at Gatun Lake Park; and
(iv)  a small museum, strengthening and repairing of walls, removal
of vegetation, and dehumidifying of vaults at Fort San Lorenzo.
Regional Education Center Component
3.23      This component, whose estimated cost is US$4.9 million, will consoli-
date the activities of three educational levels: (i) the Instituto Politecnico,
responsible for post secondary education; (ii) the Ministry of Education
responsible for secondary technical education; and (iii) the Servicio Nacional
de Formacion Profesional (SENAFORP) responsible for all basic skills level
training. The component has been designed to ensure access of the Colonenses
to the range of job opportunities generated by the project. First, it will
provide training at the skilled and semi-skilled levels as well as training at
the supervisory and technical levels; second, a job placement center will be
provided by the center; and third, a community outreach promotion program will
be organized to stimulate involvement of the unemployed and to facilitate the
training of women.
3.24      Technical assistance will be provided to reinforce the implementing
capacity of the agencies, while their curricula will include:
(i) the SENAFORP program - to train about 350 new workers per year for
existing workers in the same trades, to upgrade about 160 workers
in the commerce and service sectors, and to provide in-plant
training courses varying between 80 and 800 hours;
(ii)  the Ministry of Education program - to provide three-year
technical courses in six specialities of industry and construc-
tion for about 200 students per year;
(iii)  the Instituto Politecnico program - to provide professional
level education in seven specialities for construction,
industry, computer programming, and systems analysis for
about 94 graduates per year, of which about 20% will continue
to the post-graduate level; and



- 21 -
(iv) the intermediate management training program - to provide inter-
mediate management training courses administered by the
Ministry of Commerce to about 100 entrepreneurs per year in
appropriate subject matters.
3.25      It was agreed during negotiations that acquiring a suitable building
site will be a condition of disbursement for the component.  Specifically, this
component will consist of the:
(i) construction or rehabilitation of a building for 15 workshops,
11 laboratories, 26 classrooms, a library, a day care center,
and a cafeteria; and
(ii) purchase and installation of equipment and training aids.
E. The Technical Assistance Sub-Project
Introduction
3.26      This sub-project, whose estimated cost is US$2.0 million, will support
components for consulting and extension services related to program development,
project monitoring and evaluation, transport management, and professional
upgrading.
Program Development Component
3.27      This component, whose estimated cost is US$300,000 will provide
about 36 man-months of consulting services to assist the Ministry of Planning
in developing a prototype program for the Metropolitan Region as a whole.
Specifically, the component will consist of:
(i)  a study of the supply of available land and the demand for that
land by activity and location, including the urbanization cost
and the required zoning and development controls, and the system
of rent control;
(ii)  a study to identify the need for complementary and follow-up
public and private investments in other sectors; and
(iv) a study of urban finance which will emphasize resource
mobilization.
Management Information Component
3.28      This component, whose estimated cost is US$160,000, will provide
19 man-months of consulting services to the High Level Commission to develop
a management information system. Specifically, the component will establish:
(i) targets to be developed in conjunction with the participating
agencies;
(ii) a minimum number of new data streams; and



- 22 -
(iii) a standard computerized reporting system based on the utiliza-
tion of existing data streams collected by the participating
agencies.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Component
3.29      This component, whose estimated cost is US$240,000, will provide
to the Ministry of Planning about 34 man-months of consulting services to
develop a project monitoring and evaluation system. Specifically, this
component will:
(i)  develop targets and measures of their achievement;
(ii)  design and carry out baseline data, follow-up and project
completion surveys in the Colon subregion; and
(iii) prepare the report format for summarizing and analyzing
the results of the surveys.
Transportation Component
3.30      This component, whose estimated cost is US$500,000, will provide
72 man-months of consulting services to the Government in implementing
procedures for urban transport management, including traffic planning and
public transport programming, and operational support to the Ministry of
Public Works. Specifically, this component will consist of studies to:
(i) improve the administrative, financial, and operating procedures;
(ii)  improve traffic management;
(iii) strengthen operating maintenance and vehicle service procedures;
(iv)  develop trend analysis and improvements to terminal operations; and
(v)  establish a public information system.
Port Component
3.31      This component, whose estimated cost is US$300,000, will provide
about 14 man-months of consulting services to the Port Authority to evaluate the
existing railway facilities for purposes of identifying railway transport require-
ments across the Panama Isthmus, and an additional 24 man-months of consulting
services to undertake an organizational study of the Port Authority.
Regional Education Center Component
3.32      This component, whose estimated cost is US$500,000, will provide:
(i)  about 40 fellowships at a total cost of US$234,000 to upgrade
teaching skills for staff employed at the regional education
center;
(ii)  about 20 man-months of consulting services at a cost of US$70,000
to the Ministry of Commerce to support curricula development for
the intermediate management training program, and about 15 fellow-
ships at a cost of US$50,000 to upgrade teaching skills; and



- 23 -
(iii) about 12 man-months of consulting services at a cost of US$146,000
to establish a monitoring system for the 3 institutions.
F. Beneficiaries and Risks
Beneficiaries
3.33      The high unemployment rate and poverty in Colon, mean that job
creation and increasing incomes are integral to any attempt at extending
urban services to the poor, including the provision of housing. Thus, the
central objective of this integrated urban project is the balanced provision
of both productive jobs and services. Most of the beneficiaries are expected
to be existing residents of Colon.
3.34      It is expected that during the construction phase of the project
3,000 construction related jobs will be generated (para. 2.13). By the end
of the implementation period, about 8,000 permanent jobs are expected to be
created. The proximity of Panama City suggests that some of the new
jobs will be filled by commuters. However, since the bulk of the jobs
generated will not pay wages at levels that can support the cost of daily
commuting, it is unlikely that there will be a significant expansion in the
number of daily commuters. Inmigration to the Colon sub-region of lower
paid rural workers and of the unemployed in Panama City is more likely. As
such the project will also benefit other parts of the Metropolitan Region.
It is not possible, however, to estimate the extent of net inmigration
into the sub-region since net outmigration was the dominant feature of
the sub-region throughout the 1970s. Hence, despite the potential for
increased commuting and net inmigration, it is estimated that more than
half of the new employment opportunities will go to the existing residents of
Colon, primarily to the poor and unemployed. In order to ensure the longer
term comparative advantage and employment of Colonenses, the regional training
center component has been designed to include special outreach and job placement
features for the existing poor and unemployed in the Colon sub-region, parti-
cularly to the tenement population on Manzanillo Island.
3.35      The residential sites to be provided by the project will be based on
capacity to pay, and will benefit about 21,500 people, many of whom will be the
same beneficiaries described in para. 3.34. Costs have been kept down, so that
80% of the units will be affordable by households in the 15-40th percentiles of
the income distribution scale (paras. 4.06-4.10). In addition, home improvement
credits will be provided to enable the beneficiaries to improve and expand their
houses, especially for additional rooms to rent to those in the lower income
brackets who cannot afford to own a house. Thus, the residential component is
expected to have a major impact on reducing some of the manifestations of urban
poverty, particularly through the relocation of the tenement population of
Manzanillo Island. However, by redirecting residential growth in a controlled
manner to areas adjacent to the location of new jobs, and releasing land in the
central city from uneconomic uses the project also benefits a larger segment of
the population of the Colon sub-region.



- 24 -
3.36      Private developers on Manzanillo Island will benefit from these
arrangements since publicly financed incentives and programs will have been in-
strumental in releasing their land for redevelopment. The economic revitaliza-
tion of the city will likely result in substantial increases in land values.
It was agreed during negotiations that to recover the public cost of this
benefit to private developers, property values in the city of Colon, which
have been frozen for several years, will be revised for purposes of levying
real estate taxes not later than one year after completion of the project.
Risks
3.37      The uniquely comprehensive and innovative nature of the proposed
project in the Panamanian context carries the risks inherent to any new
program involving a number of implementing agencies, and an executive unit
that is relatively inexperienced (para. 5.01-5.03). The fact that the project
intervention is designed to reverse past trends (such as economic decline,
outmigration of the population, etc.) also makes it difficult to anticipate
the most likely response to each component or to estimate the cost effective-
ness of the intervention mixes. For example, the response to jobs created can
vary from a reduction of net out-migration and a major impact on local unemploy-
ment and the releasing of central city land for more productive use, to a
substantial increase in net in-migration that could reduce the rate at which
central city land is released and local unemployment reduced. There is reason
to believe, however, that the former scenario is more likely to occur in
the first few years of the life of the project by which time the technical
assistance to be provided under the project will have contributed to the
establishment of an institutional capability to respond to a changed scenario.
3.38      There are also risks associated with the expansion of the Free
Zone. In particular, the level of Free Zone activities is sensitive to the
economic policies of the countries and multinational corporations served by
the Free Zone. To the extent that the Free Zone functions with limited
forward and backward linkages to the local economy the multiplier effects
of fluctuations in the level of Free Zone activity are small. Hence, the
benefits arising from foreign trade-oriented investments that accrue to the
local economy are likely to be limited to the direct labor input into these
enclave type activities. This risk increases in the case of the footloose
manufacturing activities that the Free Zone will try to attract to its indus-
trial sites. The wage rates in Colon are competitive with those in Panama
City and the Free Zones in Mexico; however, they are higher than the wages
paid in neighboring Central American countries, Barbados, and Colombia.
3.39      The positive factors making the above set of risks acceptable are:
(i) the relative political stability of the country which makes it attractive
to foreign companies; (ii) the strong comparative and locational advantages
conferred by the presence of the Canal; (iii) the absence of exchange controls
and the freedom for repatriation of profits; (iv) the presence of a large
off-shore banking community; (v) an attractive incentive program (para 6.08);
and (vi) the presence of sunk infrastructure costs as a result of the rever-
sion of the former Canal Zone lands which can be exploited at modest incre-
mental costs.



- 25 -
IV. COST ESTLMATES, FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS AND LOAN ADMINISTRATION
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$133 million, of
which US$63 million or 47% represents the foreign exchange component. Base
cost estimates are expressed in prices of December 1979 and are based on
feasibility studies for the industrial component and preliminary designs for
all other components. A physical contingency of upto 15% on base costs was
allowed on all components except land, housing improvement credits and techni-
cal assistance. Base costs exclude taxes. A total price contingency of 22%
was included for expected price inflation of 14% in 1980 and 1981, and 10%
thereafter on all local and foreign cost items except home improvement credits
and technical assistance, but including physical contingencies. The project
contains about 140 man-months of consulting services to assist in the prepara-
tion of engineering drawings, specifications and construction supervision,
and 231 man-months for the technical assistance component. The average esti-
mated cost of these services in prices of December 1979 is US$8,000 per man-
month including travel and subsistence. The cost estimates are shown in Annex 1.
B. Financing Arrangements
The Financing Plan
4.02      The financing arrangements include a commitment from the Industrial
Bank of Japan to syndicate, under prevailing market terms and conditions, a
series of co-financing loans up to a total of US$70 million or its equivalent
in Japanese Yen, for which it will charge a commitment fee. The borrower will
be the Colon Free Zone. The initial loan under the syndication will be for
US$15 million in Eurodollars over eight years including five years of grace,
and will carry an annual interest rate of 1-1/4% over LIBOR. The Industrial
Bank of Japan expects to be able to compensate for the shorter maturities on
this loan with longer maturities in subsequent loans. The initial loan will
be sufficient to finance the investment program for the first year (para. 4.20).
The remaining US$55 million will be syndicated by the Industrial Bank of Japan
as required by the Colon Free Zone. Although there is no firm undertaking as
to the currency composition of the remaining US$55 million, it is likely that
it will be offered in Yen subject to the same market conditions as the initial
loan. In addition to the commitment to syndicate the loans, the Industrial
Bank of Japan will undertake to exercise its best efforts to obtain overall
terms which would result in a final maturity of approximately 15 years.
4.03      The co-financing loans will be disbursed against all project compon-
ents except low-income housing, community facilities and home improvement
credits. The loans will thus finance about 53% of total project costs. The
proceeds of the loans will be provided in quarterly tranches over a four year
period, will be available in advance of the actual construction of the works, and
will be channelled through the Banco Nacional de Panama. Procurement will be
in accordance with Bank guidelines. The detailed implementation procedures are
outlined in Chapter 5. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan
would be that the Zona Libre has obtained the initial loan from the Industrial



- 26 -
Bank of Japan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and that the
Bank has been notified that all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement
under the loan agreement with the Industrial Bank of Japan have been met.
4.04       A Bank loan of US$35 million equivalent is proposed.  The loan
will be made to the Republic of Panama, and will be for a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, and has been assumed to bear interest at
8-1/4% per annum. The on-lending arrangements and the implementation pro-
cedures are outlined in paras 5.14 to 5.20. The Government will assume the
foreign exchange risk of the proposed loan, which will finance about 26% of
total project costs.   Of the remaining US$28 million or 21% of total project
costs, US$19 million will be financed from the internal resources of the Caja
de Ahorros, while US$8 million and US$1 million respectively, will be financed
from the internal resources of the Colon Free Zone and the National Port
Authority. The financing plan is shown in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1 COLON URBAN DEVELOIMENT PROJECT
FINANCING PLAI (UJ$ MILLION 
Fin=ancing T,,7r.-In_
I  CAJA         7_
CO-     FREE      Dr A-       PORT
COMPONENT                 TOTAL IBRI Z  7r;IANC    ZO,IE| %   KUFzOS %   AU' I '
Urban Employment
Comnmrcial Estate         29.6    o  25.7 87  3.9   14 ___                     .
Industrial Estate         26.4 22.9 87  3.;  114
2____  -- --  w7  17.         14 -_
Urban Rcnewal
Retail  Mall               4.6    ----  --  3.9    86    0.7  14  ----   --   ----
Bus Terminal               1.  I              n _--.___-
6.5 1.11    4.2  0. 7- --
Housing and Social Services
Low-Income Housing        29.5 17.7 60 - -                __   11.8  4c  ----  --
Cormunity Facilities      11.0  6.6 60           _      __        4C
Home Improvement Credits    3.0 ---- --                       3.0 100   _     _
Ea 24.3 56  ___  -   =             _ 1.2  44
Regional Infrastructure
Port Improvements         10.8 ---- --  9.8 90 ---   --  ----  --  1.0   10
Road Improvement           8.6  5.2 60  3.4 ho ---
Regional Educttion Center   4.9  2.9 60  2.0 40 __.          ---   --  ----
Recreational Facilities:
Fort San Lorenzo          0.5  0.3 60  0.2 40 ---
Gatun Lake                0.5  --- __        00        --  ---   --  ---  -
25.3  o.4 33 15.9 63  _ -1.o    4
Technical Assistance        2.0  1.2 T0  0.8 70 __- -- -- __  __ --
Total Capital Requirements 133.3 35.0 26 70.0 53 8.1    6  19.2  14  1.o    1



- 27 -
C. Cost Recovery and Affordability
Cost Recovery
4.05       Cost recovery measures have been developed based on the following
objectives (a) investments in commercial activities will be fully recovered
through rental charges or tariffs; and (b) except for a portion of the urbaniza-
tion costs, investments in low income housing, community facilities, and home
improvement credits will be fully recovered. As a result, it is estimated
that 77% of total project costs will be recovered, either from the bene-
ficiaries or the general revenues of the commercial enterprises. Investments
in community facilities totalling US$11 million and certain items of urban
infrastructure of the housing component (street paving, sewage treatment,
and a major drainage canal), totalling US$3.3 million, together with certain
investments in regional infrastructure and technical assistance sub-projects
totalling US$16.7 million account for the remaining 24%, are viewed as benefit-
ting the Colon Sub-Region as a whole, and will be treated as a transfer of
resources not recovered from the project beneficiaries. Table 4.2 summarizes
the cost recovery provisions of the project.
Table 4.2  COLON URBAN DEVELOEPM1NT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF COST RECOVERY (US MILLION'
COST RECOVERY
CCMPONENT       TOTAL RENTAL TARIFFS  MORTGAGE  GOVERMENT
CHARGES     PAINENTS   TRANSFERS
Urban EmBloyment
Commercial Estate  29.6 29.6  __    _       __
Industrial Estate  26.4 2k  _
5s6.o  __  __   __ 
Urban Renewal
Retail MaU.:      4.6 4.6  __       __      __
Bus Terminal      1.9 1.9   __      __      __
Housing and Social Services
Low-Income Housing  29.5  --   __    26.2    3.3
Community Facilities   11.0  __   __  _    11.0
Home Improvement Credits  3.0   _  3.0    _
43.5     __       29.2    14.3
Regional Infrastructure
Port Improvements  10.8  __   10.8    __    __
Road Improvements  8.6  _    __     __      8.6
Regional Education Center 4.9       _        4.9
Recreational Facilities:
Fort San Lorenzo  0.5   _-  __    __       0.5
Gatun Lake       -5 __                     0.5
25.3                      14.5
jtechnical Assistance  2.0   __  __           2.0
ITotal Capital Requirementa 133.3 52.5  10.8    29.2    30.8
Percentage        100  47    8       22       23



- 28 -
Affordability
4.06      A high proportion of the residents in the tenement and slum areas
of Colon meet the Bank's urban poverty identification definition, which in
the case of Colon is average family earnings of less than US$2,205 per annum.
Nevertheless, residents of these areas are not uniformly poor. Some tenement
buildings for example, may contain exceedingly poor families, while others,
across the street, in the same neighborhood are somewhat better off. This
mixing tends to mute the income differences between the middle class and the
very poor.
4.07      In designing the shelter options which will be made available in the
low income housing site, every effort was made to create an environment which
would retain the informal networks of support and preserve the spirit of
the neighborhood, avoid income stratification, and encourage middle income
and poor families to live in fairly close proximity. Therefore, assurances
were obtained during loan negotiations that at least 60% of the shelter
options will be for families whose income falls in the bottom four deciles,
while the remaining 40% of the shelter options, will be, at the discretion of
the Caja de Ahorros and Ministry of Housing, for families whose income falls
between the fourth and sixth deciles.
4.08      Although data from the early 1970's and casual empiricism amply
reveal the marked incidence of poverty in Colon, there is, nevertheless,
a lack of recent individual and household income data. Surveys undertaken
in 1972 provide the most reliable information on income and consumption
in the city. This information formed the baseline survey, adjusted for esti-
mated income growth during the 1973-79 period, which was used to compute the
1980 average monthly family income by decile shown in Table 4.3 below.
Estimates of average family monthly income by decile during the 1981-84
period were prepared by the appraisal mission and take into consideration
changes in the labor force participation rate, and a general shift upward
in average incomes as a result of the project.
Table 4.3: AVERAGE MONTHLY FAMILY INCOME BY DECILE
US$ per month
1982
% of Income   Affordable
Decile       1980     1981      1982     1983      1984  for Housing      Payment
0-10          62       68        74       80        86     10              7
11-20         177      196       241      210       281     25             60
21-30         235      260       283      306       330     25             71
31-40        292       323       352      380       410     25             88
41-50         341      377       411      444       480      25           103
51-60        403       445       485      524       566     25            121
61-70         465      514       560      605       653     30            163
71-80        561       620       676      730       788     30            169
81-90         705      779       849      917       990     30            212
91-100     1,553    1,716    1,870    2,020    2,183        30            468
4.09      In calculating affordability, the Caja de Ahorros has traditionally
operated on the premise that 25% of family income will be devoted to housing.
The appraisal mission, however, related housing expenditure to household
income more selectively for the purpose of judging affordability. For the



- 29 -
lowest 10% of families, it was felt that 10% of household income allocated
to housing was a realistic figure; this proportion will increase to 25%
for succeeding deciles.
4.10      The resulting comnparisons of costs and capacity to pay are shown
in Table 4.4. Costs include design, supervision, physical, and price contin-
gencies. For purpose of affordability, the percentage decile reached is based
on estimated 1982 incomes. Title will be in the form of a 99 year lease. The
monthly payment assumes a 10% down payment, with the house financed over 17
years at 12% interest, with land and urbanization costs financed over 25 years
at 12% interest.
Table 4.4: COMPARISONS OF COSTS AND CAPACITY TO PAY
(In Mid-1982 Prices and Incomes)
Size     Size of          Esti-    Month-   Per-        % of
of  2    Ho2se           mated    ly Pay-  centile   Opt-
Housing Options   Lot (m )   (m )    Cost   Demand    ment    Reached   ions
Apartment Unit        -        25.2    5,300      300      53      11-20       7
Basic Dwelling
Row House           96       25.2    5,470   1,300       57      11-20      33
Basic Dwelling
Side x Side        120       25.2    5,765      935     58       11-20      23
One Bedroom
Row House          108       36.0    7,575      590      78      31-40      15
One Bedroom
Side x Side        135       36.0    7,755      200      79      31-40       5
Two Bedroom
Side x Side        135       39.6    8,385      700     81       31-40      17
--        --       --    4,025      --         --     100
4.11      All housing options have been designed to standards which are
affordable to the final beneficiaries, are fully replicable, and in fact
follow existing Ministry of Housing practise. The special features of housing
finance described in Chapter II, ensure a high probability of a continuing
line of credit from the private sector and domestic savings to finance similar
housing projects in the future.
D. Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement
4.12      Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials valued at
US$250,000 or more and totalling about US$1.5 million will be awarded through
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Contracts under US$250,000, totalling about US$2.5 million, open also
to foreign contractors, will be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. For bid evaluation purposes,



- 30 -
under international competitive bidding, a margin of 15% or the value of the
applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, will be allowed for materials
and equipment manufactured in Panama.
4.13      Contracts for civil works valued at US$2.0 million or more, other
than for the housing and social services sub-project where the figure will be
US$1 million, will be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil works contracts under US$2.0 million,
other than for the housing and social services subproject, where the figure
will be US$1 million, will be awarded through local competitive bidding open
also to foreign contractors, using procurement procedures aceptable to the
Bank. Because of the large number of competent local contractors, it is
expected that all such contracts will be won by local bidders. Exceptions
are outlined in paras. 4.15 to 4.17.
4.14      All civil works contracts valued at US$800,000 or more and equipment
and goods contracts valued at US$250,000 or more will be subject to the prior
review of procurement documentation. These represent about 40% of the contracts
and will result in a coverage of about 80% of the total estimated value of
contracts. The balance of contracts will be subject to post review after
contract signature on a selective basis.
4.15      Local procurement procedures are covered by the Panamanian Fiscal
Code which requires that all contracts above US$5,000 in value be subject to
competitive bidding. However, with a view to expediting housing construction,
the Minister of Housing has been granted by the Government, on a year-to-year
basis, exemption from the requirements of the code, and has been permitted to
contract directly for housing construction without inviting competitive bids.
Under the procedure that has been established, selected contractors are invited
to construct groups of 100 houses at a unit price predetermined by the Ministry
on the basis of an analysis of current market prices. As a result, the Ministry
considers that housing costs have been kept down and construction speeded up.
This procedure has also enabled a large number of local contractors to partici-
pate, and has had the grudging acceptance of the Panamanian Chamber of
Construction--the local association of building contractors. The resulting
prices appear reasonable.
4.16      For site preparation, the practice has been for the Ministry of
Housing to hire equipment from plant owners at an hourly rate fixed by the
Ministry on the basis of actual operating costs. This has given the Ministry
flexibility in the use of equipment to meet peak demands, has tended to keep
costs down, and has also permitted the work to be spread amongst a large
number of plant operators. Since the Ministry also carries out works by
force account, this practice can be regarded as an extension of the Ministry's
own force account operations without an increase in capital investment.
4.17      The total cost of the housing construction is estimated at approx-
imately US$18 million, of which about US$5 million will be spent in the first
phase of construction, and about US$6.5 million in each of the two subsequent
phases. The cost of site preparation for all three phases of the housing
component will be about US$4.0 million (approximately US$1.3 million per
phase). While the practice of direct contracting without competitive bidding



- 31 -
is not the preferred procurement procedure, it would be indefensible if Bank
insistence on competitive bidding were to lead to higher prices. Therefore,
agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(i) for the construction of houses, the Ministry of Housing would
initially call for competitive bids, but if it is subsequently
demonstrated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank that this will
lead to inefficiency and higher costs, the Ministry would be
permitted to revert to its present practice of direct contracting;
and
(ii) for site preparation, the direct hire of equipment by the Colon Free
Zone, and by the Ministry of Housing for those works for which
retroactive financing is proposed, would be recognized as acceptable
to the Bank; the direct hire of equipment for subsequent works would
also be recognized if it is shown, satisfactorily to the Bank, to be
more economical and efficient than by competitive bidding and
admeasurement contracts.
Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan will be fully documented.
The proceeds of the loan will finance the following items on all components
except the industrial and commercial estates, the retail mall, the ports
improvements, and the Gatun Lake Recreation Park.
(a) 60% of total expenditures for all materials, equipment, civil
works, and consulting services and salaries for support staff; and
(b) 60% of total expenditure for technical assistance.
4.19      Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$1.8 million
is recommended for expenditures incurred from December 1, 1979 for (a) hiring
of consultants, (b) site preparation, and (c) construction of infrastructure
works.
4.20      The schedule of estimated disbursements is shown below.  The
closing date will be June 30, 1984.



- 32 -
In US$ Millions
IBRD      % of      Co-financing   % of
Quarter ending              Cumulative   Total       Cumulative    Total
September 30, 1980              1.1         3            1.4           2
December 31, 1980               2.5         7            5.9           8
March 31, 1981                  4.9        14           10.4          15
June 30, 1981                   7.0        20           15.0          21
September 30, 1981              9.5        27           24.3          35
December 31, 1981              12.6        36           31.0          44
March 31, 1982                 15.8        45           38.6          55
June 30, 1982                  19.3        55           43.3          62
September 30, 1982             22.8        65           48.0          68
December 31, 1982              25.6        73           52.6          75
March 31, 1983                 28.0        80           57.2          82
June 30, 1983                  30.1        86           61.9          88
September 30, 1983             36.5        90           64.6          92
December 31, 1983              31.3        91           67.0          96
March 31, 1984                 34.0        97           70.0         100
June 30, 1984                  35.0       100              -           -
V. COORDINATION. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Coordination, Programming and Engineering
5.01      The integrated approach to urban development in Panama has evolved
from both the declared policy of the Government to adopt a comprehensive
strategy, and from the combined impact of sub-projects when concentrated on a
single purpose. In order to carry out this policy and to achieve rapid,
consistent and comprehensive development, the Government has established a
special High Level Commission to co-ordinate the project at the general
planning level, at the strategic development level, and at the implementation
level. The Commission's role is essentially one of co-ordination and liaison
between the various implementing agencies.
5.02      Created by Presidential Decree No. 144 of December 13, 1979, the
Commission operates much along the lines of regional development corpora-
tions in other countries, and has broad powers to channel resources and
determine the priorities of Colon. The Commission is headed by an Executive
Committee, which is chaired by the Vice-President of the Republic, and con-
sists of the Minister of Planning, the Minister of the Presidency, the Minister
of Housing, the Governor of the Province of Colon, and each of the Managers of
the Caja de Ahorros and the Colon Free Zone, as well as the Managing Director
of the Commission.
5.03      Having its own expertise in technical management, contract
supervision and monitoring and evaluation, the Commission employs six pro-
fessionals from different disciplines. A monitoring and evaluation officer
to be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan will also be appointed.



- 33 -
Apart from coordinating and phasing the various implementation activi-
ties, the Commission will, in the case of the Bank-financed components,
be responsible for approving the disbursement requests from the implementing
agencies prior to payment by the Caja de Ahorros. In the case of the co-
financed sub-projects, the Commission will be responsible for administratively
approving disbursement requests from the Free Zone and Port Authority prior
to release of the funds by the Banco Nacional.
5.04      The Free Zone, the Caja de Ahorros and the Ministry of Housing have
already established project management units to be responsible for the sub-
projects under their command. In keeping with Government policy of using
existing institutions, these management units, working together with the
Commission, form the basic structure responsible for carrying out the project
(see paras. 5.12 and 5.19 for detailed implementation procedures). The other
agencies are also equally important to the success of the project, but play a
more specialized role. These arrangements should provide satisfactory coor-
dination and administration of the project. Assurances were obtained during
loan negotiations that the Commission will be maintained with its present
powers during the implementation period of the project.
5.05      Detailed engineering and construction supervision for the industrial,
commercial and retail mall components will be performed by independent consul-
tants; all other detailed engineering will be provided by the appropriate
sector agencies. Detailed engineering has been completed for earthworks and
structures for the industrial and commercial components, while the remaining
detailed engineering for infrastructure will be completed by June 30, 1980.
Detailed engineering has also been completed for the port, road improvements
and the first phase of the Puerto Escondido housing component. The balance of
the detailed engineering for phases two and three, which will be completed
by September 30, 1980 and September 30, 1981 respectively, will form part of
the detailed site plan referred to in para. 3.14.
B. Organization
The Implementing Agencies
5.06      The project will be implemented as shown in Annex 2 during the
1980-83 period. Each of the implementing agencies has had previous experience
with similar programs in the past, and will be responsible for all of the
requisite programming and budgeting of their respective sub-projects, includ-
ing the design, bidding, procurement, construction, as well as the project
related co-ordination of other participating agencies, such as those respon-
sible for urban infrastructure, education, health and public works. In all
cases, each of the participating agencies will provide the necessary personnel
for staffing the facilities once they have been constructed. Agency responsi-
bility for project execution is shown below.



- 34 -
Borrowers                                    Implementing Agency
Colon Free Zone
Industrial Estate                               Colon Free Zone (CFZ)
Commercial Estate                               Colon Free Zone (CFZ)
Port Improvements                               National Port Authority (APN)
Retail Mall                                     Colon Free Zone (CFZ)
Republic of Panama
Bus Terminal                                    Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
Low-Income Housing                              Caja de Ahorros (CA)
Community Facilities                            Caja de Ahorros (CA)
Home Improvement Credits                        Caja de Ahorros (CA)
Regional Education Center                       Ministry of Education (MOE)
Road Improvements                               Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
Recreation Facilities:
-  Lake Gatun Park                           Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
-  Fort San Lorenzo                          National Cultural Institute (INAC)
Technical Assistance                            Ministry of Planning (MIPPE)
Organization and Management
5.07      Of the seven implementing agencies, the Colon Free Zone, the Caja
de Ahorros, and the Ministry of Housing, will be collectively responsible for
more than 76% of the total cost of the project. The organization structure
of each of these agencies, is therefore, briefly described in the succeeding
paragraphs. The other four agencies, which account for the remaining 24% of
the investment program, are all Government entities.
The Colon Free Zone
5.08      The Free Zone is governed by a ten-person Board of Directors, with
one person each appointed by the Ministry of the Presidency and the Ministry
of Finance, while six members including the manager are drawn from the
business community at large. The Minister of Commerce is the Chairman of
the Board. Activities are organized in four functional areas--planning
and programming, engineering and design, administration, and business pro-
motion--all of which report to the general manager. The engineering and
design area has recently been strengthened by the appointment of a project
manager and additional technical staff. The Free Zone is audited annually
by the Office of the Contraloria General de la Republica (Auditor General).
The organization structure of the Free Zone is shown in Annex 3.
Caja de Ahorros
5.09      Established in 1934 by Executive Decree No. 54, the Caja de Ahorros
is the oldest savings and loan association in the country. Governed by a five
person Board of Directors appointed by the President of the Republic, the Caja
de Ahorros has broad powers for offering a full range of banking services.



- 35 -
The Caja de Ahorros does not engage in housing construction. In addition to
its central office in Panama City, which is responsible for its policy forma-
tion, project design, and construction procedures, the Caja de Ahorros operates
25 regional offices located in departments throughout the country. Four of
the regional offices are located in Colon. Employing a total staff of about
600 people, 430 work in offices throughout the Metropolitan Region, and of
these, 50 work closely with housing finance and housing design activities.
The Caja de Ahorros is organized into 17 functional divisions and three
geographic management units. The organizational chart is shown in Annex 3.
The Caja de Ahorros is audited annually by Arauz, Hermida and Pazmino, an
independent firm of public accountants acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were
obtained during loan negotiations that independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank will be maintained.
Ministry of Housing
5.10      The Ministry of Housing was established in January 1973 by Executive
Decree No. 9, superseding the former Institute of Housing and Urban Affairs.
The Ministry operates eight branches, four of which are in Panama City, and
one each in Colon, David, Chitre and Santiago. Of the total staff of about
2,400 people, 920 are considered permanent, while the balance of 1,480 are on
contract. The professional staff includes 56 architects and 20 engineers.
The Ministry is organized into four major operating divisions--administration,
urban development, programming and budgeting, and construction--all reporting
directly to the Minister of Housing.
5.11      The Ministry's implementation capacity is such that it frequently
undertakes urban infrastructure projects such as roads, surface drainage,
water supply, sewerage and electricity. In such cases, design specifications
are submitted to the relative sector agency such as the National Water and
Sewerage Agency (IDAAN), and the Ministry of Public Works.  On completion,
these projects are inspected by the agency concerned, which subsequently
assumes responsibility for operation and maintenance. The Ministry also
undertakes the construction of general public works, health clinics and
schools in its public housing project areas.  These resources endow the
Ministry with great flexibility of action and place it in an excellent posi-
tion to participate effectively in integrated urban development projects.
C.  Implementation Procedures - Co-financed Components
Industrial, Commercial and Retail Mall Components
5.12      In the design and construction of drainage works and roads, close
liaison with the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) will be maintained. Follow-
ing standard practice, the design specifications for the water and sewerage
networks will be subject to the final approval of IDAAN, the national
water supply and sewerage agency, although the Free Zone will be responsible
for their construction. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations
that the Colon Free Zone will prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later
than June 30, 1981, a proposal satisfactory to the Bank for sewage collection
and disposal prepared in consultation with IDAAN. The electricity and tele-
communications networks will be constructed and installed by the national



- 36 -
agencies responsible for each sector, IRHE and INTEL, which will obtain the
funds as required from the Free Zone. Upon completion, the Free Zone will
own and operate all of the facilities except the utility infrastructure,
which will be transferred to the appropriate sector agency for operation
and maintenance. While the Free Zone will not receive payment for these
assets, it will recover the costs through rental charges for the facilities.
Ports Improvement Component
5.13      The Free Zone, which will be the borrower, will onlend the appro-
priate amount to the Port Authority. The loan will be under the same terms
and conditions as those given by the Industrial Bank of Japan to the Free
Zone. The repayment obligations arising from this loan will exceed the limits
stipulated under Loan Agreement 1114-PAN, Section 5.06, between the Bank and
the Port Authority for the execution of the Vacamonte Fishing Port Project.
According to this agreement, the Port Authority is not permitted to incur
further debt, without prior Bank approval, unless net revenues for the pre-
ceding twelve months were not less than 1.4 times the maximum debt service
in any future year. In fact the Port Authority's net revenues for 1979,
about US$2.6 million, were well below the maximum projected debt service
including this borrowing (over US$4.7 million). However, the Port Authority's
earnings are expected to increase substantially during the next few years as a
result of the fishing port at Vacamonte and the reversion of the Canal Zone
ports of Balboa and Cristobal (para 6.03). Preliminary data provided by the
Port Authority indicates that net revenues during 1980 will exceed the US$6.6
million required to comply with this covenant. It is proposed, therefore,
that the Bank approve the proposed borrowing.
D. Implementation Procedures - Bank Financed Components
On-lending Arrangements - Housing and Community Facilities Components
5.14      The financial intermediary and administrator for the housing and
community facilities components will be the Caja de Ahorros. The Government
will on-lend to the Caja de Ahorros the appropriate portion of the Bank Loan
(60% of expenditures for the foregoing components) while the Caja de Ahorros
will finance from its own resources the remaining 40%. The expenditures will
be segregated to show separately the cost of houses, community facilities and
urbanization of land. Upon completion, the community facilities and urbanized
land will be transferred by the Caja de Ahorros to the Government, which will
cancel the appropriate portion of the Bank loan (60% of expenditures) and
reimburse the Caja de Ahorros for the remaining 40% under the same terms and
conditions as the Caja de Ahorros obtained the funds. The houses will be sold
by the Caja de Ahorros, which will underwrite and service the mortgage port-
folio (see paras 5.16 and 5.17). Final signature of an agreement between the
Government and the Caja de Ahorros covering their respective obligations, will
be a condition of disbursement for the housing and social services sub-project.
Physical Implementation - Housing and Community Facilities Components
5.15      Although the financial intermediary and administrator for the housing
and community facilities components will be the Caja de Ahorros, assurances



- 37 -
were obtained during negotiations that unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the
physical implementation, including the design, procurement and construction will
be carried out by the Ministry of Housing. Consistent with existing practice,
the Ministry will use the same procedures for infrastructure as outlined in
para. 5.12. The design and cost estimates, however, will be subject to the
final approval of the Caja de Ahorros. A memorandum of understanding between
the Caja de Ahorros and the Ministry of Housing has already been entered into.
As part of this understanding, the Caja de Ahorros will, in addition to the
construction supervision provided by the Ministry of Housing, maintain its own
inspector at the job site. The inspector will recommend for payment on behalf
of the Caja de Ahorros all progress payments made to the Ministry. The original
procurement and disbursement documents will be held by the Ministry, but copies
will be sent to the Caja de Ahorros. Assurances were also obtained during loan
negotiations that the Caja de Ahorros will prepare and furnish to the Bank, not
later than June 30, 1981, a proposal satisfactory to the Bank for sewage
collection and disposal prepared in consultation with IDAAN.
5.16      The delivery mechanism for the housing units will be in keeping with
national policy, so that beneficiary selection criteria will be established
by the Ministry of Housing. Loans for the purchase of houses (excluding
urbanization costs) will be administered through one of the offices of the
Caja de Ahorros using its normal criteria which are acceptable. Loans will
be denominated in Balboas, which are at unity with the US dollar, and will
bear interest at 12% per annum, adjustable not later than every 5 years on the
basis of the institution's average cost of funds (para. 6.21), will be amortized
over 17 years, and will finance up to 100% of the cost of the house. All
documentation for these loans will be retained by the Caja de Ahorros, which
will reserve the right to repurchase any house within the first five years of
occupancy should the existing owner choose to sell. The purpose of this policy
is to minimize pressure on land speculation. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that any change in the foregoing lending terms will be subject
to agreement with the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that the Ministry
of Housing will implement a site allocation system satisfactory to the Bank.
5.17      Urbanization costs allocated to the housing site (para. 4.05) will be
recovered from the home owner in the form of a valorization tax amortized over
25 years at an ieterest rate of 12% per annum. Raw land will be valued at
about US$4 per m and will be recovered from the home owner as a rental charge
under the same terms and conditions as the valorization tax. Assurances were
obtained during loan negotiations that the Government will apply these cost
recovery policies.
5.18      The increase in the wholesale price index averaged 7.1% in 1977,
5.5% in 1978 and about 18.0% in 1979. This increase is expected to average 14%
in 1980 and 1981 reducing to 10% thereafter. It is unlikely, therefore, that
the onlending rate of 12% per annum (para. 5.16) charged by the Caja de Ahorros
will be positive during the early stages of the project. However, the rate of
inflation is expected to decline in 1982, the period when the bulk of the
mortgages are expected to be written and when the onlending rate is expected to
turn positive in real terms. In addition, the Caja de Ahorros is the largest
single domestic mortgage institution in the country, and the onlending rate of
12% per annum is consistent with other similar types of lending (para. 6.20).



- 38 -
Other Sub-Projects
5.19      The appropriate sector agencies as shown in para. 5.06 will be
responsible for the implementation of the bus terminal, regional education
center, road improvements, recreational facilities and technical assistance
components. These components will be jointly financed by the Bank and the
Industrial Bank of Japan (para 4.04). The Free Zone, which will be the
borrower for the Industrial Bank of Japan, will onlend the appropriate amount
to the Government. With the exception of the bus terminal, each of the
implementing agencies will be responsible for the operation and maintenance
of their respective facilities. Upon completion, the bus terminal will be
transferred to the Transport Directorate of the Ministry of Justice and
Government for operation and maintenance.
E. Monitoring
5.20      To ensure that information essential to project execution is pro-
vided, monitoring of the project components will be undertaken. Responsibility
will rest with the respective implementing agencies (para. 5.05), but the
Commission will co-ordinate all of these monitoring activities and the informa-
tion generated will be used by the Ministry of Planning for designing similar
projects in the future. Quarterly reports will be prepared on the basis of
records systematically kept of key indicators of progress toward project goals.
The format of such reports were discussed at negotiations. Themes to be
treated in the reports, which will be submitted to the Bank, include: (i) the
pace of construction; (ii) types of industries using the industrial facilities
and the number and type of jobs created; (iii) housing loans and repayment
experience; (iv) employment characteristics of the beneficiaries; (v) impact
of community participation; (vi) appropriateness of service standards and
tenure arrangements; (vii) turnover of area residents; (viii) development
trends in the downtown area of Colon; and (ix) demand and payments for rental
accommodations. Annexes 2 and 4 contain the estimated values for indicators
that were discussed during negotiations, as well as key dates for project
implementation. Agreement on these figures was recorded. Commitments and
disbursements under each loan category will be reviewed at the halfway point,
in addition to normal monitoring, to gauge the overall effectiveness of these
programs in reaching the intended beneficiaries.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
6.01      The two main implementing agencies for the project--the Colon Free
Zone and the Caja de Ahorros are commercial, profit making enterprises.  Of
the total project costs, about 78% would have a direct impact on the financial
position of these agencies; a full financial analysis has therefore been done
for both of them. While the project has been broadened to include other in-
vestments related to raising the general level of urban services, these compon-
ents account for about 14% of total project costs while the port improvements
component, which accounts for the remining 8%, would be implemented by the



- 39 -
National Port Authority, also a profit making enterprise. Since these
components present no significant risks to the implementing agencies involved,
their financial position has not been analysed in this report. However, since
the Port Authority is a profit making enterprise, its financial position is
briefly described below.
B. The National Port Authority
6.02      Since its creation, in 1974, the Port Authority has been a profit-
able institution handling steadily increasing traffic and receiving rapidly
expanding revenues. Total revenues, which were US$0.5 million in 1975,
increased by 140% to US$1.3 million in 1978 and are expected to have in-
creased substantially in 1979 (figures are not yet available but are ex-
pected to be over US$10 million). The dramatic 1979 increase arises
because, during the year, the port facilities at Vacamonte were opened
and the Port Authority assumed responsibility for the ports at Balboa and
Cristobal which had been previously operated by the Panama Canal Company.
6.03      Under the terms of the agreement with the Bank for Loan 1114-PAN
(Section 5.05), the Port Authority is required to earn a profit at each of
the ports that it operates. Total profit earned has increased from US$88,000
in 1975 to US$246,000 in 1978 and is expected to have exceeded US$1.0 million
in 1979. The main uncertainty affecting the future profitability of the Port
Authority arises from the Canal Ports at Balboa and Cristobal. Because of
the accounting policies used by the Panama Canal Authority, it has not been
possible to determine whether tariffs cover their full operating costs. The
Port Authority is currently receiving UNDP financed assistance from technical
experts who are working on improving the Port Authority's financial data
systems. This work, which should be completed in mid-1980, will indicate to
what extent tariff adjustments are required in order to ensure the profit-
ability of the ports. In view of the foregoing loan covenant and the signi-
ficant amount of revenue generated (estimated at over US$30 million per
year), the Port Authority will no doubt implement suitable tariff revisions
in due course.
6.04      The economic justification of the port container handling component
of the proposed project raises a more specific issue with regard to tariffs
that is not covered by the tariff covenant discussed in para 6.03. The
benefits of this component accrue directly to the shipping companies which are
foreign owned. While some of the savings may be passed on to Panamanians in
the form of lower import prices and/or higher export prices, the Port Authority
would have to raise tariffs on container services at Cristobal if the port
component is to yield an acceptable economic rate of return. This action
should be feasible in view of the substantial savings accruing to the shipping
companies. Therefore, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Port Authority will implement, within one year after completion of the
works, a tariff system for container services at Cristobal to ensure that the
revenue so earned would be at least sufficient to yield a satisfactory economic
rate of return on the proposed investment in container facilities.



- 40 -
C. The Colon Free Zone
General Overview
6.05      The Free Zone generates most of its business through real
estate rentals. Although the Free Zone was established in 1948, it was
not until 1952 that it opened for business with 10 companies on a modest
six hectares of land. By the end of 1979, the Free Zone had fully developed
44 hectares of land, 70% of which was covered by warehouse type buildings
and display offices. The facilities are fully contracted to 350 individual
companies with almost 250 others using the service of Free Zone based redis-
tribution agents. The Free Zone now employs just over 5,000 workers.
6.06      Goods arrive by ship that dock at the adjoining port of Cristobal,
and leave either by ship from the same port or by air from Tocumen Airport
near Panama City. The main exporters to the zone are Japan, the United States,
Taiwan and Britain. The main buyers are Brazil, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru,
Colombia and Mexico. Many of the trading companies, especially those dealing
in electronic components, cameras, watches, perfumes and recording equipment
sell to other free port areas of Latin America: San Andres Island in Colombia,
Manaus in Brazil, Aruba, Curacao, and Panama City. In the past, space limita-
tions in Colon have been one of the Colon Free Zone's constraints for growth.
Sector Strategy
6.07      In addition to a major expansion of its existing activities for the
1980-84 period, the Free Zone Industrial Program also includes the expansion
of its range of activities for the manufacture and export processing sectors.
The principal target sectors from which projects will be sought are: (i) elec-
tronics and computers; (ii) mechanical engineering, including industrial
machinery, valves and compressors; (iii) selected areas of the textile industry;
(iv) consumer products including sports, leisure equipment and photographic
equipment; and (v) health care products, intermediate and related chemical
products. These sectors, while providing some jobs in the short-term, are
principally directed at the long-term development of Colon, and will bear
fruit in the mid 1980's when physical works commencing now can be expected to
mature. By the end of 1986, more than 8,000 new jobs are expected to be created.
The first phase of the program is included as part of the proposed project.
Incentives
6.08      The program is aimed at attracting a share of the internationally
mobile investment by means of an incentive package, which is summarized as
follows:
(i) External operations are taxed in accordance with graduated
rates at 2.5% on the first US$50,000 to 8.5% on taxable
income in excess of US$100,000. Internal operations are taxed
at rates which start at 20% for the first US$30,000 to 50% on
taxable income in excess of US$500,000;
(ii) depending on the number of Panamanian employees working for
a company in the zone and on the basis of its taxable income,
tax credits ranging from 0.5 to 1% to 1.5% are allowed; and



- 41 -
(iii) companies established after January 1, 1976 are granted a 95%
tax rebate for the first five years if 80% of their revenues are
from external operations and they engage a minimum of 30
Panamanian employees.
6.09      In addition to the above incentives, there are others, such as:
(a) dividends paid on profits obtained from external operations and from
direct sales are not subject to a dividend tax; (b) royalties paid to compa-
nies established abroad are not taxable; (c) merchandise stored in, or leaving
the zone for foreign countries is exempt from taxes, assessments and fees of
all kinds; and (d) total exemption from any other type of national or municipal
tax providing the assets are located within the zone.
Past Finances
6.10      As shown in Annex 4, the Free Zone is financially strong, having as
of December 31, 1979, US$22 million in total assets. Of this amount, about
77% or US$17.0 million was in the form of paid in capital and retained
earnings, 18% or $4.0 million was in the form of long-term debt, and 4% or
US$1.0 million was in the form of short-term debt. In the past, investments
in land and buildings were mostly financed on a cash basis from net earnings.
This accounts for the relatively small amount of long-term debt outstanding.
As shown by the current ratio, which has averaged 2.0 over the last two years,
the liquidity position of the Free Zone is quite strong. A current ratio of
about 1.2 for this type of enterprise is generally considered the norm for
adequate short-term liquidity.
Rental Revenues and Tariff Structure
6.11      Rental revenues, which account for about 84% of total revenues,
are earned in the following manner:
(i)  an individual company may build its own warehouse or plant
on a serviced lot rented from the Free Zone. Under this
arrangement, the building standards are established by the
Free Zone. The building must be kept open during regular
Free Zone working hours, and the utilities must be paid by
the company. The monthly land rental tariff as of January 1,
1?80 was US$0.40 per m in the existing area and US$0.30 per
m in the expansion area. Rental contracts range from one
to 20 years;
(ii)   an individual company or firm acting as a representative
for various clients may rent the exclusive use of all or
part of a building from the Free Zone for a period of one
to five years, renewable. With Free Zone permission, tenants
may adapt this space to their own needs for warehouses,
showrooms and offices. The monthly buigding rental tariff
as of January 1, 180 was US$2.00 per m in the existing
area and US$1.50 m in the expansion area;
(iii) companies or individuals may rent space in public warehouses owned
and operated by the Free Zone. The rental tariff as of January 1,
1980 was US$3.00 per month per 40 cubic feet or metric ton.



- 42 -
6.12      Additional revenues are also generated by providing storage, repacking
and reshipping services in Free Zone owned public warehouses, as well as customs
and declaration services, insurance brokerage services, consular certifications,
and trash collection. These charges are adjusted periodically to take into
account the increased operating costs associated with such services.
6.13      The following summarizes the number of square meters of rental space
and the average tariff for land and buildings at the end of 1979 and 1984 respec-
tively; the period in which the new facilities are expected to be completed.
1979                           1984
2       Contracts          2      Contracts
Description               m      Existing    New      m      Existing   New
Land      - Existing Area   134,428    0.19    0.40  156,028    0.50          0.61
Land      - Expansion Area    6,002    0.21    0.30  213,823    0.45          0.46
Buildings - Existing Area   164,235    1.57    2.00  164,634    3.00          3.07
Buildings - Expansion Area   18,571    1.37    1.50  165,571    2.79          3.07
6.14      Present forecasts indicate that the Free Zone will require tariff
increases of about 9% per year to generate sufficient revenues to cover debt
service requirements, working capital needs, and the contributions needed to
finance new works. Present tariffs are low when compared to other Free Zones
in the Latin America. The net effect of the tariff increases would be to
gradually raise tariffs to a level about equal to what other free zones are
charging. Assurances were obtained that the Free Zone (i) will implement
no later than September 30, 1980 and maintain thereafter tariffs which will
generate revenues at least equal to the sum of all operating expenses including
maintenance and administration (but excluding depreciation and other non-cash
operating charges), working capital requirements, payments of interest and
other charges on debt, repayment of principal, all taxes or payments in lieu
of taxes, all cash dividends and other distributions of retained earnings,
and all capital expenditures not covered by long-term financing; and (ii)
will earn a reasonable return in real terms on the value of its facilities,
taking into account the value of the land on which such facilities are located
and the level of tariffs charged in other Free Zones of the Caribbean Area for
use of such facilities.
Financing Plan
6.15      Looking ahead, the capital requirements of the Free Zone during
the 1980-83 period total US$93.2 million. This amount includes the proposed
industrial estate sub-project of US$20.8 million, the commercial estate sub-
project of US$23.4 million, the commercial mall sub-project at US$4.6 million,
interest during construction of US$11.8 million, completion of works already
in process of US$8.6 million, other investments of US$4.3 million, an increase
in working capital of US$2.2 million, a loan to the Central Government of
US$7.7 million and a loan to the National Port Authority of US$9.8 million.
About 13% of the requirements would be financed from net internally generated
funds, 2% from prepaid rents, 10% from existing commercial loans, and 75% from
the proposed loan provided by the Industrial Bank of Japan.
6.16      The following table summarizes the cost of the sub-projects, the
additional funds required during the period of execution, and the sources of
funds:



- 43 -
Table 6.1: THE COLON FREE ZONE
Financing Plan 1980-83
(In US$ Millions)
Application of Funds                                 Cost                 _
Proposed Project                                60.6                 65
Completion of Work in Process                    8.6                  9
Other Investments                                4.3                  5
Working Capital Requirements                     2.2                   2
Loan to Central Government                       7.7                   8
Loan to National Port Authority                  9.8                  11
Total Application of Funds                93.2                 100
Source of Funds
Funds Provided by Operations                    18.4                 20
Less Debt Service                                6.8                  7
Net Internally Generated Funds                  11.6                  13
Prepaid Rents                                    2.6                  2
Other Loans                                      9.0                  10
Proposed Loan-Industrial Bank of Japan:
Initial loan                               15.0                 15
Future loans                               55.0                 59
Total Source of Funds                      93.2                100
6.17      To protect the financing plan and the Free Zone's future financial
viability, assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that, during
the period of implementation of the proposed project, except with the agreement
of the Bank, the Free Zone will not undertake any investments in excess of
US$1 million per year over those contained in the agreed investment program,
which consists of the proposed project of US$60.6 million, completion of
works in process of US$8.6 million, and other investments of US$4.3 million.
Assurance were also obtained during negotiations that the Free Zone will take
all measures to obtain the additional US$55 million in co-financing under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and not later than March 1, 1981 and
thereafter by March I in each year until the project has been completed,
furnish to the Bank information on the estimated amounts of financing it
requires during the following two years and on the terms and conditions in
which such financing will be available to the Free Zone.
Future Finances
6.18      On the basis of the proposed tariffs, and the increase in available
rental space, revenues should almost triple, from US$4.5 million in 1979 to
US$13.4 million in 1983. The operating ratio before interest and depreciation
would remain at about 60% throughout the period, which is considered accept-
able. As shown in Annex 4, the current ratio and debt/equity ratio would be
satisfactory throughout the period.



- 44 -
D.  The Caja de Ahorros
Financial Structure
6.19      As shown in Annex 4, the Caja de Ahorros is quite large, having, as
of December 31, 1979, US$152 million in total resources.  Of this amount, about
93% or US$141 million is in the form of savings deposits, 6% or US$10 million
in the form of reserves and equity, and the remaining 1% or US$1 million in
the form of liabilities. Savings deposits are divided into three main cate-
gories: (i) passbook savings, which account for about 50% of the total,
pay interest at the rate of 5 1/2% per annum (this may be increased to 7
1/2%); (ii) 3 month certificates of deposit, which account for about 40% of
the total, pay interest at the prevailing market rate (currently about 14%-16%);
and (iii) 10 year bonds, which account for the remaining 10%, pay interest at
the rate of 10% per annum. The interest paid on savings accounts can be
adjusted as required, since the Caja de Ahorros uses a variable interest
mortgage (para. 2.21). Thus, the risk of disintermediation is quite low. The
Caja de Ahorros is extremely liquid, maintaining on average, about US$30
million in free funds at any given time. This is the equivalent of about 25%
of total deposits, which is considered more than adequate to meet overall
requirements.
Mortgage Lending and Interest Rate Policies
6.20       The Caja de Ahorros can finance mortgages up to 80% of the assessed
value for commercial properties and up to 100% for residential properties.
Mortgage rates for residential properties are divided into three categories:
(i) loans of US$10,000 and under pay interest at 12% per annum plus a fee of
1% per annum (usually waived for lower income groups); (ii) loans from
US$10,001 to US$16,000 pay interest at 12% per annum plus a fee of 1%-2% per
annum; and (iii) loans of US$16,000 and over pay 12% plus a fee of 3%-4% per
annum. Due to its effective management, the portfolio shows only 1.3% in
arrears of 90 days or more. There is a risk that the delinquency will rise
with the increasing size of the low-income mortgage portfolio.
6.21      As part of the policy of the Caja de Ahorros to maintain at all
times a sound financial position, the rates of interest which it charges on
lending operations, are on the average, two percentage points higher than its
average cost of capital. This policy, including the following method used for
computation, was confirmed to the Bank:
(i)  Average cost of capital is computed by dividing the sum of all
interest, commissions, and other charges paid or payable on debt
in any given year by the average of all debt payable, including
deposits and other forms of investors savings, at the beginning
and end of such year; and
(ii)  Average rate of interest on lending operations is computed by
dividing the sum of all interest, commissions, and other charges
received or receivable in any given year by the average of all
loans receivable at the beginning and end of such year.
Future Finances
6.21       Looking forward, the financing requirements of the Caja de Ahorros
during the 1980-83 period are estimated at US$256 million. This amount
includes an outlay of US$44 million for the proposed project, other lending



- 45 -
operations of US$194 million, liquidity requirements of US$11 million and
other investments of US$7 million. About 55% of requirements would be financed
from repayments of principal, 31% from depositor's savings and 14% from
borrowings. Table 6.2 summarizes the financing requirements, the funds
required during the period of execution, and the sources of funds.
6.22      The proposed Bank financed component is quite small relative to
the Caja de Ahorros' overall investment program, representing about 17% of
total expenditures during the 1980-83 period.  It is, therefore, unlikely
that any change in the Caja de Ahorros' financial position would significantly
alter the implementation of the project. Conversely, it is unlikely that the
project would significantly alter the financial position of the Caja de
Ahorros. The Caja de Ahorros' overall operating performance is expected to
be strong throughout the period.
Table 6.2: CAJA DE AHORROS
Financing Plan 1980-83
(In US$ Millions)
Application of Funds                                        Cost            %
Loan Disbursements:
Existing Programs                                       193.6         76
Bank Financed Project                                    43.5         17
Total Loan Disbursements                                  237.1         93
Increase in Liquidity Requirements                         11.6          4
Other                                                       7.3          3
Total Application of Funds                        256.0        100
Source of Funds
Loan Collections                                          140.1         55
Customers Savings Deposits                                 78.8         31
Borrowings                                                 36.5         14
Other                                                       0.6          -
Total Source of Funds                             256.0        100
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION
Introduction
7.01      The project is Panama's first attempt to confront urban development
problems via an integrated project, involving the interaction of various sectors
and the coordination of private and public entities. The government has con-
cluded that only within such an integrated context can the continued secular
decline characteristic of Colon be reversed and economic growth resumed. The
components of this project have been designed to work together and ensure
that the generated benefits accrue to the depressed sub-region of Colon.



- 46 -
7.02      The principal economic factor contributing to the timeliness of the
project is the availability of new land for the expansion of commercial, indus-
trial and residential activities as a consequence of the recently enacted Canal
Treaty. This offers an excellent opportunity to attend to the situation in
Colon by reorienting growth in a planned way, both spatially and sectorally, by
providing as well as stimulating, possibilities for productive employment, and
by increasing the stock of housing and the availability of other urban services.
Summary Analysis
7.03      Analysis of the cost and benefits of the project has been performed
for those sub-projects which generate benefits that are readily quantified.
These include the industrial and Commercial Estates, the Port and Road Improve-
ments, the Retail Mall, the Bus Terminal and the Low Income Housing Sub-
Projects. The estimates of the economic rates of return are based on constant
1979 prices. Efficiency prices have been used for labor and foreign exchange.
7.04      The nominal wage-rate for unskilled labor in Colon is $9.48 per day.
The shadow wage-rate used for the purposes of this analysis is $3.50 per day.
This is based on the opportunity cost of rural in-migrants and as such over-
states the opportunity cost of using unemployed workers. However, since the
objectives of the project include both economic growth through increased savings
and improved income distribution through the expansion of employment, the
above opportunity cost has been used in lieu of an alternate shadow wage-rate.
7.05      Panama's currency is the dollar, hence the nominal exchange rate is
unity. The presence of tariffs and quotas, however, suggests that a shadow
exchange rate exists between domestic and international prices. To convert
domestic prices to border prices, a conversion factor of .06, 1/ based on
the 1974 to 1976 average ratio of total revenues from imports, was used. 2/
7.06      Transfer payments, which do not represent direct claims to the
resources of the country, such as interest, depreciation allowances, taxes and
subsidies, are all excluded from the cost streams. Costs borne by foreign parti-
cipants are also excluded, as are the benefits accruing to them. Physical contin-
gencies are included for all capital costs, as they represent part of the expected
value of the costs, but price contingencies are excluded. Although the land
for the Free Zone and residential expansion has been provided to the project
at no financial cost, it represents a resource cost to the economy and has been
included in the cost streams. The benefit streams are based on cost savings
and rental values directly arising from the various components of the project.
7.07      Rates of return have also been calculated for the Port, Highway
Improvements, the Bus Terminal, and the Retail Mall components, which represent
US$25 million or one fifth of project costs. Their quantified benefits are
based on tariff yields (Port and Retail Mall), cost savings (Road), and time
savings (Bus Terminal).
7.08      Benefits have not been quantified for five sub-projects:  Community
Facilities, Home Improvement Credits, Regional Education Center, Recreational
1/   Contraloria General de la Republica, Panama en Cifras, 1974-1976.
2/   Due to the relative importance of non-tariff protections in Panama, in
particular the imposition of quantitative restrictions and price controls,
this method may underestimate the actual difference between border prices
and domestic prices.



- 47 -
Facilities, and Technical Assistance, which account for the remaining 13% of
project costs. Their qualitative justification is provided below.
7.09      Due to space limitations, a summary of the economic analysis is
provided for the Free Zone expansion and Low Income Housing components only.
Together they account for $80 million, or two-thirds of project costs.
Expansion of the Free Zone
7.10      The provision of industrial facilities and the preparation of land
for commercial use is expected to generate a wide range of economic benefits
to the country and the Colon sub-region, associated primarily with the attrac-
tion of investment by foreign exporting firms and industries. It is expected
that this induced investment will stimulate regional economic growth in Colon
and contribute to alleviating the economic imbalances that exist within the
Metropolitan Region.
7.11      In the calculation of economic rates of return, land has been assumed
to have an opportunity cost of US$4 per square meter. Other costs included in
the calculation are urbanization costs, building construction, and annual operat-
ing costs.
7.12      Benefits of the Free Zone expansion have been limited to the revenues
generated by the rental of industrial buildings and the lease of industrial and
commercial sites. The resulting rate of return, based on the above assumptions
and on sensitivity tests for 15% over- and under-estimation of cost and bene-
fits, are summarized below.
Internal Rate       Range Resulting from
Component                of Return         Sensitivity Analysis
Commercial Estate              13.7                  8.7 to 11.1
Industrial Estate              30.1                 21.7 to 32.9
7.13      It should be noted, however, that due to the relatively high level of
unemployment and underdevelopment existing in the sub-region and the magnitude
of the expected foreign investment, the major impact of the expansion of the
Free Zone is associated with the generation of employment and not just the
receipt of rental income. At full development and occupancy of the projected
first phase of the Free Zone expansion, by 1985 estimated employment would
be approximately 8,000 permanent jobs. Assuming that the opportunity cost
to Panama of the induced investment is zero, since none of this employment
would be created and none of the wages would be generated without the expan-
sion of the Free Zone in Colon, net benefits should include the net output
resulting from the induced employment in addition to the direct rental revenues
generated. However, of the net output generated in the Free Zone, labor income
is the only significant return to the Panamanian economy. Therefore, wages
rather than the net export value of the output has been used as an alternate
proxy measure of the benefits to the economy of the Free Zone expansion. Rates
of return calculations based on the inclusion of these benefits are more than
50% higher than the rates of return excluding them.



- 48 -
Housing and Social Services
7.14      The provision of housing and social services at the periphery of the
city center represents a significant effort in easing the conditions of urban
decay in the center of Colon. This component will help to relieve the inten-
sive overcrowding characteristic of the city and to reduce the occupancy of
unsafe tenement buildings that have been condemned by the municipality. More-
over, as the Free Zone components of the project are implemented and as
economic conditions begin to improve, the population of Colon is expected to
increase. In particular, persons previously employed in Colon but living in
Panama City would be attracted to Colon by the improved living conditions, and
migrants would be attracted from other areas in response to the employment
opportunities. Thus, this component also helps to redirect this new growth
away from the overcrowded city center to a more viable growth area.
7.15      In calculating the economic rate of return from the residential
component, all economic costs are included: land, administration, design
and engineering, infrastructure, house construction, physical contingencies
and maintenance. Although the land has no financial cost, it is assumed to
have an economic cost equal to the cost foregone by its use in this project.
Based on the high cost of urbanizing this land and on the market value of
serviced land in the surrounding area, the cost is estimated to be US$4 per
square meter. Annual maintenance costs are estimated at 3% of capital costs.
Taxes, interest and price contingencies are excluded from the costs.
7.16      The costs of schools, clinics, parks and other community facilities
and benefits, which represent about 15% of the total cost of the residential
components, have been excluded from the analysis because of the difficulty
of quantifying their benefits. The facilities will be provided on a least-
cost basis in accordance with minimal national urban standards.
7.17      The benefits to be derived from the housing are based on the imputed
rental income. This value is based on the current market rental values in
urban and suburban Colon of units similar to those to be provided in this
project. Because of the peculiar conditions of Colon, as evidenced by the
high incidence of condemned buildings that have zero rental value, by the
scarcity of housing, particularly of non-deteriorated housing and by the lack
of individual rental housing units, the information collected in the Colon
area is combined with data on rents from similar areas in Panama City. The
resulting rental values for individual houses range from US$30 per month for
a single room house to US$190 for a two-bedroom house. Rents were slightly
lower for comparable apartments, ranging from US$28 per month for a one-
bedroom unit to US$175 for a two-bedroom unit.
7.18      Based on the above assumptions and estimates, the internal rate of
return is 15.7%. Assuming a 15% over- and under-estimation of benefits and
costs, the resulting rate is at least 12.8%.
7.19      The rates of return for the individual sub-projects and the combined
weighted average is summarized in Table 7.1. The weighted average economic
rate of return for these components, which represent 87% of the project costs
is about 21%.



- 49 -
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Sensitivity Analysis
Economic            Costs             Benefits
Component                  Rate of Return    + 15%    + 25%    - 15%         - 25%
30.1 1/        25.7      23.3     25.1       21.7
1.   Industrial Estate          55.7 2/        48.7      44.9      47.5       42.1
13.7 1/        11.1      9.7      10.7        8.7
2.   Commercial Estate          54.3 2/        47.7      43.9      46.5       41.1
3.   Port Improvements          14.1            11.2      9.5      12.5       11.3
4.   Road Improvements          39.7            34.7     32.1      34.0       30.2
5.   Retail Mall                23.3            19.7     17.7      19.1       16.1
6.   Low Income Housing         15.7            13.1     11.7      12.7       11.2
7.   Bus Terminal               49.0           43.5      40.5      42.7       38.3
Weighted Average         21.0           17.3      16.0      17.4      14.9
1/   Benefits include only direct revenues from the rental of sites.
2/   Benefits includes revenues and wages as a proxy for net output from
induced investments with no opportunity cost to Panama.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMhENDATIONS MADE
8.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  property values will be revised (para. 3.36);
(b)  at least 60% of the shelter options will be for families whose
income falls in the bottom four deciles, while 40% will be
for families whose income falls between the fourth and six
deciles (para. 4.07);
(c)  procurement will be in accordance with competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank, unless it is subsequently
demonstrated that this will lead to inefficiency and higher
prices (para. 4.17);
(d)  the High Level Commission will be maintained during the imple-
mentation period of the project (para. 5.04);
(e)  the Caja will continue with independent auditors (para 5.09);
(f)  the Caja will designate the Ministry of Housing to implement the
Housing and Community facilities components (para. 5.15);



- 50 -
(g) the Colon Free Zone and the Caja de Ahorros will prepare not
later than June 30, 1981 a proposal for sewage collection and
disposal in consultation with IDAAN (paras. 5.12 and 5.15);
(h) the Ministry of Housing will implement a site allocation system
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.16);
(i) any change in lending criteria or credit terms will be subject
to agreement between the Caja and the Bank (para. 5.16);
(j) a valorization tax will recover land value and urbanization
costs (para. 5.17);
(k) the Port Authority will implement tariff increases sufficient to
yield a satisfactory economic rate of return on the proposed
investments (para. 6.04);
(1) the Free Zone would implement tariff increases and earn a rea-
sonable return in real terms on the value of its facilities
(para. 6.14);
(m)  the Free Zone would agree to a ceiling on investments (para. 6.17);
and
(n) the Free Zone would obtain cofinancing and inform the Bank on its
terms and conditions of future loans from the Industrial Bank of
Japan (para. 6.17).
8.02      The following special condition of effectiveness has been specified:
(a) that the Bank has been notified that the Free Zone has obtained
the initial loan from the Industrial Bank of Japan and that all
conditions under the loan agreement have been met (para. 4.03).
8.03      The following special conditions of disbursement have been specified:
(a) the availability of land for the Puerto Escondido housing site and
downtown Colon (para. 3.13);
(b) a site plan will be prepared (para. 3.14);
(c) the Ministry of Education would acquire a suitable building
site (para. 3.25); and
(d) final agreement between the Government and the Caja de Ahorros
(para. 5.14).
8.04      With the assurance and conditions indicated above, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35 million equivalent.
May 20, 1980



ANNEX 1
- 51 -                                Page 1
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProAject Cost Estimates Summary
us$ millions                % Foreign
Local       Foreign        Total        Exchange
A. Urban Employment
Commercial Estate                  4.16        10.19         14.35           71
Industrial Estate                   7.33        5.31         12.64           42
Interest During Construction        6.58        5.22         11.80           44
Subtotal A                     18.07        20.72         38.79           53
B. Urban Renewal
Retail Mall                         1.70        1.13          2.83           40
Bus Terminal                        0.75        0.47          1.22           40
Subtotal B                      2.45         1.60          4.05           40
C.. Housing and Social Services
Low-Income Housing                14.61         9.74         24.35           40
Community Facilities               1.99         0.85          2.84           30
Home Improvement Credits            2.10        0.90          3.00           30
Subtotal C                     18.70        11.49         30.19           38
D. Regional Infrastructure
Port Improvements                   2.44        3.99          6.43           60
Interest During Construction        o.46        0.74          1.20           62
2.90        473           7.63           62
Road Improvements                  2.32         3.48          5.80           60
Regional Education Center           1.37        2.o6          3.43           60
Recreational Facilities:
Fort San Lorenzo                 0.21         0.09          0.30           30
Gatun Lake                       0.21         0.09          0.30           30
Subtotal D                      7.01        10.45         17.46           58
E. Technical Assistance                  1.00         1.00          2.00          50
F. Design and Supervision                5.45        1.36          6.81           20
Base Costs (Subtotal A-F)      52.68        46.62        99.30            47
Physical Contingencies               5.20        4.6o          9.80           47
Price Contingencies                12.89        11.34         24.23           47
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      70.77       62.56        133.33           47



-52-                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 2
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(In USS Thoousods)
Engineer- ns                                                Phys.ial                                  Prite
D-reot Cost               MOwO,S       3FverliVt              e   Co.t V.Ai,o _nt                  Sub-Total        koUflt       7.       Tot1l
Commercial Estate
E.rth-orks                                                 7,700.00       4.0    308.00         6.0    462.00         8,470.00       15.0  1,270.50      9,740.50        2,839.07       29.1   12,579.57
Infrtsrct-t-re                                             6,650.00       4.0    266.00        6.0    399.00          7,315.00      15.0  1,097.25       8,412.25        2,451.93       29.1   10,864.18
Int.-eat D-ing C-n.t-uctlon                                6,200.00       _20000 _                                                                       6,200.00 _  _  6,002.00
Tot.l Comeri       Ett                                      20,550.00        4.0    574.00        6.0    861.00        21, 985.00      15.0  2,367.75    245,52.75         5,291.00       22.9   29,643.75
Industriol Estate
Feosibility Sttudy                                           :40.01                                                     240.20         -                    240.00            -           -        240.00
oInfras t-'t-re                                            5,900.00       4.0    236 00         6.0    354.00         6,490.00      15.0    973.50       7,463.50        2,302.50       30.8    9,766.00
Btildin8e                                                 68500.00        4.0    260.00         6.0    390.00         7,150.00       15.0  1,072.50      8,222.50        2,536.50       30.8   10,759.00
Int.e-et Dortog Con-tro.otin                               5 60000         -                   _-.      -             5,600.00              _            5,600.00             - _               5, E 00.00
Total I,d-str il                                            18,240.00        5.9    496.00        5.9    744.00        19,480.00       14.7  2,046.00      21,526.00       48039.00       23.7   26.365.00
Retail Mail
Mall Co.str.ut.lo                                          1,722.00       4.0      68.88        6.0    103.32         1,894.20      15.0    284.13       2,178.33           579.27      26.6    2,757.60
SiteR inort-low                                               86.00       4.0       3.44       6.0        5.06           94.60      15.0      14.19         108.79           28.93      26.6       107.72
Other B.ildi,ng                                              357.00       4.0      14.28        6.0     21.42           392.70      15,0      58.91         455.60          120.09      26.6       571.70
Malt Eqoipoent                                               668.00       4.0      26.72        6.0     40.08           734.80       15.0    110.22         845.02         224.71       26.6    1,069.73
Total Retail MRll                                            2,833.00       4.0    113.32         6.0    169.98         3,116.30       15.0    467.45       3,583.75          953.00      26.6    4,536.75
b.u  Te-minal                                                1,215.00       3.8      46.00        6.0     71.60         1,332.60      14.5    192.94       1 525.54          362.77      23.7    1.888.31
Low-Intone ROCIouen,
Infrastructure
Earth-orke                                                 2,553.00       4.0    102.12         4.0    102.12         2,757.24      25.0    689.31       3,446.55           773.58      22.4    4,220.13
Water Distributio-                                           962.00       4.0      38.48        4.0      38.48        1,038.96      12.0    124.68        1,163.64          261.18      22.4    1,424.82
Etreoset L'ag tine                                         2,860450       4.0      93 80       4 0      93 80         2,532 60      12 0    303.91       2,836.51          636.66       22.4    3,473.17
Otroet Drainege                             1,~~~~~~~~~876.00  40   750.04      4.0      70.04         2,026.08      12.0    243.13       2,269.21          009.33      22.4    2,778.04
olol  DraInage                                               238.00       4.0       9.52        4.0       9.52          257.04      20.0       51.41        308.45          69.23       22.4       377.68
streete and Alleys                                           750.00       4.0      30.00       4.0      30.00           810.00      20.0    162 00         972.00          218.17      22.4    1,190.17
Street P0050s                                              1,326.00       4.0      53.04       4.0      53.04         1,432.08      20.0    286.42       1,718.50          305.72      22.4    2,104.22
Erv.ron.ental Cooserva-tio                                   298.00       4.0      11.92       4.0       11.92          321.84      20.0      64.37         386.21          86.69       22.4'     472.90
Sewage Tr-tt.e.t Poot  7                                     500.00       4.0      20.00       4.0       50.00          540.00      20.0    108.00         648.00          145.44      22.4        793.44
BildiI,848.00    4.0    433.92         4.0    433.92        11,715,84       17.4  2.033.23    13,749.07         3,086.00       22.4   16,835.07
OEutiinge UnIt.                                             13,500.00        4.0    040.00        4.0    540.00        14,580.00        2.0     291.60    14,871.60         4,208.56     28.3    19.080.16
Community F-otitles                                          2,837.00       4.0    113.           6.0    170.22         3,120.70      10,0    312.07       3.432.77        1,305.92      38.0    4.738.69
Home I-.rove.ent Credits                                     3,000.00        _- _                 _           _         3,000.00                            3 C0000              _          _     3.000.00
Port leeroneenete
Storage Yard                                               2,26.                   103.00      6.0      16074         2,839.74 L0      o      283 97      3,123.71         734.07       23.5    3,857.78
Sot-digs .                                                 2,678.00       4.0      107.02       6.0    16.10          2,952.10      10.0    295.21        3,25.7.3         7631         23.5   .4,010.43
Btilding.                                                  1,180.00       4.0      47.20       6.0      70.80         1,298.00      10.0    129.80       1,427.00          341.13      23.5    1 I6A 3
Interest DOwing Constr-cton                               1,200.00         -         -          _         -           1,200.00 o               -         1,200.00             -         -       1,210.00
Total For t Ip-ens.. e                                       7 ,634.00        .0        2        7.20    7              8,289.84      1 08.09 81,998.82                                          10,837.14
Re   mrovernente
CatRl'IRAi.dolp   - Stru1turns                             5,450.00        -         -          8.0    116.00         1,566.00       15.0    234.90       1,800.90         350.00       19.4    2,150.90
C.ti-a/Randolph - Roadwo-ks                                2,800.00        -         -         8.0    224.00          3,024.00      15.0    453.60       3,477.60          675.86      19.4    4,153.46
Randolph - Colon Loop                                      1,550.00                             8.0    124.00         1,674.00       15.0    251.10       1,925.10         374.14       19.4    2,299.24
Totel Rood Improvemeots                                      5,800.00              -              8.0    464.00         6,264.00       15.0    939.60       7,203.60       1,400.00       19.4    8,603.60
Regional Edunotlto  Center
Ter4nttal TraIning Center                                  3,326.00       4.0    133.04         6.0    199.16         3,658.60       10.0    365.86      4,024.46          776.65       19.3    4,801.11
Snail B.eioess Training Center                               100.00       4.0       4.00        6.0       6.00          110.00       10.0     11.00         121.00           23.35     19.3        144.35
Total Regional Edc.titon Center                              3,426.00        4.0    137.04        6.0    205.56         3,768.60       10.0    376.86       4.145.46          800.00      19.3    4,945.46
Ronreoti.oal FaCilities
Fort San Lorsoso                                             300.00       2.0       6.00        5.0      15.00          321.00       10.0      32.10        353.10           75.00      21.2       428.10
GatZ n Lake                                                  300.00        2.0       6.00       5.0      15.00          321.00       10.0      32.10        353.10           75.00      21.2       428.10
Total Reoreational Facilitlos                                  600.00        2.0      12.00       5.0      30.00          642.00       10.0      64.20        706.20          150.00      21.2       856.20
Te-hotnal Aesist-ane                                         2.000.00        -          -         _             _       2.000.00           -       _        2,000.00             -         -       2,000.00
TOTAL COSTS                                                 92,483.00        2.9  2,722.96    4_4  4 1688 92           99  94 88        9_8  9 800 88   109,95 56         24,224 07       22,2  L}a3  0L.
I/ Sobjeot to opp-ov-l by the Benk of IDAA.t' overall sewege treon-ent end dieposal plan ior
the Colon Atee



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
PANAMA                                               Page 3
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL AREAS
Design Standards, Land Use and Unit Costs
A     STANDARDS
Commercial Area                       Industrial Area
Water distribution networks
Pipes                                         4" to 12" dia PVC                      4" to 12" dia PVC
Basis of design flow                          20 persons per ha                      200 persons per ha
80 gphd                               310 lpcd
Minimum residual pressure                     40            p.s.i.                   40            p.s.i.
Sewerage
Pipes                                         6" to 21" concrete                     6" to 21" dia. concrete
(18" dia and over reinforced)         (18" dia and over reinforced)
Basis of design flow                          (minimum) 80% of water                 80% of water consumption
consumption
Sewage Treatment                                    Package treatment plants providing secondary
treatment, including aeration and chlorination,
under consideration, subject to approval by the Bank
of IDAAN's overall sewage treatment and disposal plans
for the Colon Area.
Effluent discharge by
gravity to                                    Folk River                            Coco Solo River
Roads
Lane width                                    3.50 m, 3.0 m                          3.75 m
Paving                                       concrete                               concrete
Flood Protection
Existing water courses                       N/A                                   To remain largely
undisturbed
Minimum formation level                                                            + 10.0 m (the observed
flood plain elevation)
Storm Drainage
Design storm frequency                       5 years                                5 years
On-site collection                          18" to 84" dia reinforced               18" to 84" dia reinforced
concrete                               concrete pipes



- 54 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 4
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial and Industrial Areas
Land Use Summary
B. LAND USE
Coco Solito
1. Commercial Area                                              initial
future
Phase 2   Phase 3   Expansion        Total   (%)
Gross useable area (ha)           13         22          13            48
Urbanized area (ha)               13         22           -            35    (100)
Leasable area (ha)                  9        15           _            24    ( 69)
2. Industrial Area
Phase 1   Phase 2   Phase 3          Total   (
a) Area to be levelled (ha)               5         23          30           58
b) Additional area to be cleared
of vegetation (ha)                    43         17          10           70
c) Gross useable area (ha)               48         40          40          128    (100)
ci) Percentage of leaseable area
to remain in seminatural
condition                 (b)-(c)    90          43          25           55
e) Urbanized area                        35           -          -           35
f) No. of Lot Spaces                      20        20          15            55



- 55 -                                    ANNEX 1
Page F
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Puerto Escondido Housing Site
DESIGN STANDARDS, LAND USE AND UNIT COSTS
I. INFRASTRUCTURE
A. STANDARDS
Water Distribution Networks
Pipes                                   3" to 10" dia PVC
Basis of design flow                    80 gphd
System pressures:                       50 to 70 p.s.i.
Minimum residual pressure:              15 p.s.i.
Sewerage
Pipes:                                  6" to 24" dia concrete
(18" dia and over, reinforced
with rubber gasket joints)
Design Velocities:                      2 to 3 feet per second                1/
Basis of design flow:                   56 gphd (70% of water consumption) -
Sewage Treatment (Plant under Study)
Design criteria:                                                   Suspended
BOD5- 20                 Solids
Strength of sewage received                 200 mg/l               200 mg/l
Strength of treated effluent                30 mg/l                30 mg/l
Percentage removal                          85%                    85%
Plant to include:                           Bar screens, primary settling, aeration
secondary settling, chlorination, digestion
and vacuum filtration of the primary sludge
Sludge disposal:                            No plans yet made
Effluent disposal:                          Gravity flow to Folk River estuary
Roads
Widths:                                 Paved Width                R.O.W.
Footways                              1.20 m                     5.0 m
Pedestrian streets                    2.60 m                     7.0 m
Local streets                         2 x 3.0 m lanes            12.0 m
2 x 1.1 m sidewalks
Secondary streets                     2 x 3.75 m lanes           15.0 m
2 x 1.2 m sidewalks
Principal streets                     2 x 3.75 m lanes           20.0 m
2 x 1.2 m sidewalks
Paving:                                     Concrete over selected basecourse material
Storm drainage
Design storm frequency:                  5 years
On site Collection:                     Open channels, about 50% concrete lined,
remainder grass or earth lined. Concrete
pipes (18" to 84" dia) at street crossings.
1/ This is low--should be 90%



- 56 -                                     ANNEX 1
Page 6
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Puerto Escondido Housing Site
Land Use Summary
Phase I     Phase II      Phase III      Total
Heotares    Hectares       Hectares      Hectares
Total Project Area                         30.52         46.16         41.10         117.78
Less Unuseable Area                         2.25          9.26          9.52          21.03
Streets and Parking                    8.93          9.56          5.66          24.15
19.34        27.34         25.92          72.60
Developed as Follows:
Residential                           15.29         17.16         12.52          44.97
Commercial                             0.29          3.59          0.13           4.01
Community Facilities                   1.63          2.08         11.71          15.42
Sports Facilities                      0.07          3.79          0.10           3.96
Parks and Landscaping                  2.o6          0.72          1.46           4.24
19.34        27.34         25.92          72.60
Road Design Standards
Widening of Boyd-       Strengthening & Widening
Roosevelt Highway          Randolph-Colon Road
Design speed                             80kph                   65kph (urban)
Max. grade                                5%                           3%
Pavemiient: - addition              (2-lane)  7.30m             (1-lane) 2. o-
- overlay                      None                  Existing pavement
Siioulders - paved                 2 @ 1.40m = 2.80m           1@   1.40 m = 1.40 m
Cross-slope: - pavement                 1.5%o                         1.5%
- shoulders                2.0%                         None
SuDerelevation                       7.0% (max)                      n/a
Interseetions                         At grade                     At grade
Bridge: loading (AASHTO-USA)          HS-20-44                       None
Deck width - curb to curb               7.848m                        None
- out to out                8.584m
1/ Only the two-lane section will be widened; existing three-lane will only
require strengthening.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Impleffentation Schedule
Year                      lH~9SD                                        1981                                          582                                         1983
Qurnr         1          2           3          4          t           2          3          4           1          2          3           4                      2          3          4
cOmercrHt A,ea
P-hr                                 .......              leelel
S-wage Thetmet Plant                           ..... I
Phe. 11
tntrstttctore                                                                                                         _I_  
tdiurial Ata
PE55. I 
--,uworts                          *              ,:a       -
_n       Bs=cur                                                        _- A 
Retail Malt
Bu.ding C..n...tu.fl4...  ........
Are  Rertab,lHaeon 
Otht F-11tit-es
BusT er"in"
S.sigrt &I 9,dOnErg                                Ba   |       ||
Site Clearant_
Build.n  Cots=utro_
HrstoricOl Monuments
Hous,eoatd SocblatSo,vtes                                                                                                        
Ph.a 1:
EanhwotksB|                                        _         _
Water O,sttjrluptt*rsnz                                    _
Sawerge                           *CCC*CCC         W        _       _
Streets                            C.|Z                   _ 
El-triclty
H-usitConst-ctio-                                        r              _
CPmrnrroity Facilities            "XCC@|5_     - 
Hormn  Impo-emant Crdts__
Phase II:
Water Disttb.utot                                          .....
S-erle                                                   ........I                                           _         
Storm Dr-maip oa.._._
Elecer,c,tv                                               
Housing Corsn.rctiOfl" S                                                  =w       _            _ 
Commurird Fatil,tiw                                                                       .........I
Horns ltrpr    ent Cred___
Ph.. III
E-nhw-rk1---Z .....                                                                                                              ,-_ 
rDstetobge     -                                                                                      ........        el
S-._ra                                                                                               '|W8e              "WW                 _ 
St-                                                                                                   ..ests.
Storm  Otroamg                                                                                         ----el
ElenrO-ty                                                                                                                                                            El
CPrtrrunhY Fecilorele                                                                                            aa"|                  h  
Home l--ro -roon   Ctdits
Port tnpros.orens       - 
Storae Yr d.....  .........
Hoiteings                         Slll    @@|@1 A'g                s             
Rooed tmprooenrents                                              
Boyd-Oooew.elt S.etior             ..... .... 'A
RenHolPS-CHIoo LoPPP.|   |W                              @|sAI    A'A'
Rgeknral EdHoetron Canter            ***@"       .          . ee    A'A' Xg" ;  
Rsslewrond Paoilrties                                            
Gnun Lake                         ............  
Tecttnicol Asrstanet|o
Progtrrt Oeoelopmnrrrerr_t_
MarregemOrret Iflorrntwt rt
Project Momretprmg                                        0              _        __                                            _          _               
UrMen Pranaportetror                                                                        t -        _
Porteand Rlilwans Studiesll--    
Edocation                                              l          l           t                    
Imp leme  tat to
rA',rA'-sA' 0.4dm0
.--------    tn                                                                                                                                                   Woltd Betrk-2t550



PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring Indices
TARGET
1980     1981      1982      1983       Total
1. Employment
Commercial Estate                  No. of permanent jobs            --        500    1,500    1,000         3,000
Industrial Estate                  No. of permanent jobs            --        500    2,000    2,500         5,000
Urban Renewal Sub-project          No. of permanent jobs            --        --        150       200         350
2.  Retail Mall                          % Completed                         5        55       40       --          100
3.  Bus Terminal                         % Completed                       --         50       50       --          100
4. Low Income Housing
Puerto Escondido                   Completed dwelling units          350    1,190    1,750        435       3,725
Downtown Colon                     Completed dwelling units           70      230       --        --         300
5.  Home Improvements Credits            Amount loaned, $ millions         --       --        1.5       1.5         3.0
6.  Port Improvements                    % Completed                        20        80      --        --          100
7.  Road Improvements                    % Completed                        30        70      --        --          100
8.  Regional Education Center            % Completed                        25        75      --        __          100
9.  Technical Assistance                 % Disbursed                        10        40       30        20         100   
oq M4
(D   LN



REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LA ZONA LIBRE DE COLON (THE COLON FREE ZONE)
ORGANIZATION CHART - 1980
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
LAUDITOR GENERAL        . ......
MANAGER
ASSI STANA MANAGER
COORDINATING 
I CONRMITTEE   IVI
PHYSICAL~~~~~ COMMERCIALOR 
PLANNIN ANDPROGRAMMING
DIRECTOR                               IDIRECTOR F ADMINISTRATION
|AECONDPROGRAML MING | |EVALUAT(ON  |k;<|         21 WAREHOUSING                I       SERVICE    |   AND ARCH IVES | |ADMINISTRATION !     CU PRESITY
L
DI RECTOR OF                                                              IETRO 
EXPANSION  L                                                       COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES|1
S11~~~~~[ :RCRMNG |I E3 IAMNSRTO Rt                                            [4[N G         COMRILUBLIC RELATIONS
F3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
JO                                                                                                                 (D  >:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LA CAJA DE AHORROS
ORGANIZATION CHART -1980
I INTERNAL. |  -IO|AL.LEGL-
IiI                                                                    J
|-    ~~~~~~~~~~~~.ENPRA |ANRGGROAAL MASARAT                                                                   |
MONEYEPAA                 CA IDNFORA      O      EN NERN AGA TLERNTOA |ULI |GIIYAV    SYSTEM |-                                                                          SA
ORYGIEVES  OSIY  REAl ESATE  ERNEF-| TANYSUSTMIN CA NYROLLER AN STTSTC   AR CTHITRE    AFA|                                     LEA         CERONCEPC     MONTO|-
R|SMGELT| |77ERA                               LAGSTA8LMANSR |                     | MLENERCD 
S. FRANCISCO   |S NIVERSIDADS-                  MONAGRILLO| }
-|RIG A8AJO  | |CHORRERA  F5 SNIG 
COLON    |   COLON CONTRALFHPNNM 
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S || ASEDVaEDA -w  a 21488
I  COLON   I
ZO2NA Cl18E |                                                                                                                                                         J>
(D>
rDtzI



61
MNEX 4
LDIIA 111R' DI 10N
I.-lid-d II- t
T                                                -1                984             1985         Mt,             1987
R
153              IM              -141                                    88I             37            1313            1,704             2,01H        2.306           2.519          21
ml               200               135                  2oO              333             363               M3               393               158          383             433
99              171              560                   5 72             loa             830             tl 20              3
--;7    121                       -71-2                                T_ 2p              2.1
7.1                                                                                                        L7                                                               I 5
_2               z                                              -17&o1                        ... ... ..
h.
411              411            t,415        6,115                                                  n    -    11-di,. 2
7:4
0  7                                                                                                                                                    -d 10%
In 31                                 11:n17                             I:_                               36,049       37,193           ':dno                  f,
4                                                                                                                          037                                         0
1,391            1,347                                  3,               311            11               M'wo              43,i73           41,04       1.,i4d
17I             119                71,                  oi'k               ..                                                                                              ?48
15          2,115
520           L2L                                   13,131            66           31,394             7,-              1,131             2:?Du'       2 : 30105      3 : I'M'
1-7 -5 2-0    20 663    7H4                             777nT                            7rT6T            7 =1              gr                   M            -               -r7F    dC--                                                        -1 .id
L- - i-d                                                                                                                                                                                            91    7r,7r  tuT
2.                                                    47                                                              hffi                818
I6,665                                                                  'T                                                                                                                          I.-       n$70 All,..
2kE   _"                                                                                         kw
T-1                                                                                                                                           t14                                                                                                T... .1.
2il,011                                                 7d 16R          94.39          111,48D            IQ                                                                              .1 IzB.     Ik%  o7.5% 1  980, 5,5%
-                 ikffi                                   -             -               -                 -                "I ,Iq  -.n?  114-5i7                               1981, 11.3% il 198Z -d 1983, -d 10% lh---) --g-
IIB              172               2 r                  300              33G             11               4n,t                              481           532             5H5                                               4
d.b, d- ilhi,                               542               3                4p                  348               348        :iE             ::E
65D    -715 5-                                      -64                 C73                                          ::jg                                                                  T.-,.f                  1-.             f-qhl, i6l
fl- il              f LIB.R    11",
-i"   Lf                                     332              413                                                   I,-             1,742             2,492            2,992            3,392         3,812           4,292              _d            f
bi                                                           2               17              T                     1-              782                              782               782                 2          782             782
334    -4 20                                                          -2--74-                                                                                             7-4    Ij/.
I,
I--- T-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                         d
-   B-k. it/                                       -                 -                                  5"5o            43,,OD          5,6oo           7G,ooo            0.300            4,Z40        60,9,0          57                                    ..... .   Ilo  1,    .  ,,.                    j
'Ih-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .280                               -ff lh                        f- g
1,151            2,930             3.943                                       7                                          44;              + IF3
"  44g    A'64'
I , 75 7         2,93D             3,93                                464L7    49                      #4'q'-1'                                 _1
542                                 4B                  14B              348                                             3,906                        !g                 ,
3,891               7.797                                                              "'691                                                                 . .....                               by                  f 91
.LI W-ki 9 -Pi.l
- 1,11,d IV    1,1                                    8,514            E,5L4              8749                3,741            8,749           8,149            8, 749            e,10             8,149         8,749           8,749
8,172                                1 11               414
7   _,2                                                               'I 42187
T.-I tibiliU.. -d b,-,
EINGS MLRITAIII
21111            2,11-1            1,311                5,487            I'-                                               10,264           11 342         12,308         13,4 70
'71              3"                4                    681            1,055           1,691            I'll,            a,712               ,10         4,504          I'll,
-                -                                                      -               -                                  441              444            444            M
430              523               M8                   704
-6 M77   8-15ff
1,1                         2-1                           1411           1,141             1.1,44               1,q14             1,177                           2,349            2,51             2.,785         3,030          1,8197
d                                         4              1
57                    5                                               650                no               m              oc             5o
it                                    16,               2,7                  141              114             318               354              Ili              411            1             137
244              1 1               '41                   4,                              5 69              6-               .1                              864            9 9
fl                                        i13                                38                I" 59            1,293           1,170               n.             5,04             4,977          4,831          4,393
3M               153                   561              78,                                             2.DE9             La"
+176                            3
I
1              E                                                                      ill                                            11'
2=7                                                      1-:7
1,255            I 13                  2 ;490          'I R'14'
T,                                                                                                                                       i,131             6,638            1 47                                              27
too              loo               'no               1,0oo             "'200           1,400            1,6oo            1,60G             "800          2,ooo          21
M                213               537                                                                                                                                     2oo
240              24D             240              14o              30D              3oo            4DD              vo
n i-                                                                                           P-42   11=4                                         -4,77    rT6-1  9-4 9                                           -_6827
lwE.l T n-I
- -,:!"-d.                                                               2,454                 3,8D2            4,972           6,'l            ),4I'           11,726            13,095        14,507         15,989
--Q,--, 't-                                                              313               707                1 _141                                                                                                          _2 711
1,464                                 7  , _
1,747                                                                  I-M             41'   -1 '71 1 'M'  TeMN7  174
216              "I                   ",59            1,29           1,170            1,)16            5,.,             1,977,         4,831          4,393
I t4 Irl                                    4B             348             348                                                 90'
1,,                                     =7             -I -,WI    rl-518                                       -
45,                                                                                   44 1     M.
.-ki, cVitl                                                            - 444                32D                   41o             40o             40D               400              4no              400            400            'Do
4I  1 11 I               p;11   -9 _-117
I,              1 1;3  49    FU
2 2 3            6-1 z                               TR
-               235                                    -               -                -
n-                                                                 I1                                      310             600             350              150                                40             5oo           4
11              .111                   4oo              ..             -                -
Z,614            i,ooo                     ooo
I
-                11:1oo          25,4oo          13,3oo           13,2oo
L-d-           fl                                    21               16                                                                                       7W
9,1                                                                                                                      :Eft  :3:tff  =1 k,
467
3M               116
45
1.3                 6'            060            5,901
I- -                              P-k                                                                   1,703             :,9                                 o                            1,012           2,288          3,6D,
R- il .11                                                                                                       250               92            2"             5,$ 9
700          2,500
-R-                                                             2,288          3,67
1,8"                 IT, 6-04        20,311          14 92.
-d q.jp--
13          j.,                      310              0             43o               4oO             4 0             4oo              4()            4
o1h.                                                                                     06                      .0             60,0            Ill              910              7am             7oo              70             7
In                na
77--  -Q1T7






ANNEX 4
Page 2
Zona Libre de Colon
Monitoring Indices
Operating Data                                             1977       1978        1979         1980        1981        1982         1983        1984         1985        1986         1987
Building Rentals:
M2 Warehouse-Central Colon                             168,520   168,520    164,235       164,634      164,634    164,634    164,634        164,634    164,634    164,634        164,634
Average Monthly Tariff                                    1.29       1.32        1.57         2.04        2.28        2.51         2.75        3.00        3.37         3.67        4.00
Actual Monthly Tariff                                     1.50       2.00        2.00         2.18        2.37        2.59         2.82        3.07        3.35         3.66        4.00
M2 Office - Central Colon                                 -          -           -            -          3,900       3,900        3,900       3,900       3,900        3,900       3,900
Average Monthly Tariff  (= actual)                        -                                   -           8.50        8.50         8.50       10.00        10.00       10.00       12.00
M2 Warehouse - France Field Commercial                   7,292    11,073       18,571      63,571       63,571      63,571     115,571      115,571     115,571      115,571     115,571
Average Monthly Tariff                                    1.14       1.27        1.37         1.91        2.07        2.31         2.57        2.79         3.04        3.31         3.61
Actual Monthly Tariff                                     1.25       1.50        1.50         2.18        2.37        2.59         2.82        3.07         3.35        3.66        4.00
M2 Retail Space - Downtown Mall                           -          -           -            -           -           -           3,700       3,700       3,700        3,700       3,700
Average Monthly Tariff (= actual)                         -          -           -            -           -           -            8.50       10.00        10.00       10.00        12.00      O
Land Rentals:
M2 Land - Central Colon                                119,573   132,298      134,428     134,428      156,028     156,028      156,028    156,028      156,028      156,028    156,028
Average Monthly Tariff                                    0.14       0.17        0.19         0.29        0.34        0.37         0.42        0.45        0.50         0.57         0.60
Actual Mlonthlv Tariff                                    0.30       0.30        0.40         0.44        0.48        0.52         0.56        0.61        0.66         0.70         0.75
ME Land - France Fie d Commercial                        6,002      6,002       6,002      73,823      123,823    173,823    223,823    313,823         313,823    313,823       313,823
Average Monthly Tariff                                    0.19       0.21        0.21        0.29         0.3?        0.35         0.38        0.41        0.45         0.50        0.55
Actual Monthly Tariff                                     0.30       0.30        0.30        0.38         0.36        0.38         0.42        0.46        0.50         0.54        0.60
M2 Land - France Field Industrial                         -          -           -            -         50,000      TVO,000    150,000   240,000        240,000    240,000       240,000
Average Monthly Tariff (-actual)                          -          -           -            -           -           0.38         0.42        0.46        0.50         0.54         0.60
Financial Data
Working Capital Ratio                                    10.6        2.3          2.0         4.3         5.8          5.8         7.0         7.8          8.0         8.1          8.1
Equity to Total Capital                                   0.9        0.8         0.8          0.4         0.3         0.3          0.3         0.3         0.3          0.4          0.4
Debt Service Ratio                                        1.5        0.9         3.9          2.1         2.1         3.1          3.2         1.1          1.2         1.4          1.5
Operating Ratio                                           2.8        1.9         2.2          2.2         2.4         2.7          3.4         3.7          3.8         3.8          3.7
Average Fixed Assets in Operation (Ustmillions)          15.7       15.7         16.6        24.7        28.2         40.5        69.1         76.1        82.3        82.9         84.9
Net Earnings Before Interest and Grants                  1.9         1.5         2.1         3.2          4.2         5.2         7.7          9.7        ll.l         12.4        13.9
Rate of Return (%)                                       12.1        9.6        12.7        l3.0         i4.9        12.8        11.1         12.7        13.5         13.2        14.7






ANI.EX 
-6  -                                                                  Page 3
CAIA DE AH11RROS   !
Co. clid;...v Fa,--ci,,l RLsW zo
Actual                             Forecast
2977  198       19)79      1980       199!       398?       18-3
BALANCE SHFET-
Assets
Cask and Due from Banks  b/                  31,464    23,547    27,281    31,350    34,381         36,431    38,930                a/  Caja do Ahlurrs it  a Panama Government autononoos mortg.age
Investmcents   c     li                         437         537       419        470        400        470        550                   bank, goversed by Its own organic law and regulated by
mortgages   a'                               87,213    99,998   108,030    118,200   :37,800   160,900   188,380                        Decree Law No.  23  of July 2, 1970.
Loans  e/                                     7,170      73467      7 930      8,200      8,500      8,830      9,130
Construction Loans                            1,429      2,237      2,800      9,200    14,900    23,500       19,300              b/  li.i-iuu liquidity requires 257. of savings depositsg
lank Premises and Equipment  2f/              2,192       2,585     2,700      2,975      3,325      3,725      4,175                   excluding money market instruments, as cash an hand.
AccumulaLed Interust and OLher Assets         2,886      1,718      3,281      3,731      4,900      7,276      9,748               c/  I-etents are recorded at cost and comprise bonds
Total Assets                                   132a191    138,084   1523381   174126   204,206   241,104   '7D1213                       of the Gov-rity-dt of P-aama, earning interest at 6/1,
~~~= ~~ ~==-=- ~ -- ~L ~~==:~===   --- ---  ~ith maturity dates up to tO ye.ar  fmo. date of
Liabilities and Capital                                                                                                                   auquiitiin,  and Pas-no Treasury motes at 37, per annum
Current Liabilities                              294        483       431        300        450        750        900                   with short-term maturities.
Savings Deposits  g/                        122,279   126,614   141,300   157,000   175,000   196,100   220,109
Loons Payable                                    878        758       638      6,318    18,498    33,278    36,658                  d/  Mortgage loans are granted at various iL-terst rates,
Other Liobilitics                                495     1,310      1,162      1.282      1,102      1,122      1,342                   renewable every 5 years.
Capital                                       6,750      6,900      7,050      7,200      7,350      7,500      7,650
Re.erves hI                                    1,971      1,815     1,346      1,372        902      1,150      2,280 0/  Loa-u ace secured by Caja do Ahorrosdepoaitor'e savings
ReLaised Earnings                                124        204       454        654        904      1,204      1,554                   account.
Total Liabilities and Capital                  1321791   138 084   152a38l   1741126   204 204   241,104   270g213                    f/  Premises and sqoipdent are deprecited on the basis of the
---- --------                                     -----a=                            straight-lime method of 2% for buildings and 10% for
R-ecenue  and Expenses                                                                                                                    cquipmeet.  Leasrhnld improvements are asortized uo-r
Revenses:                                                                                                                               10 years.
L-o  Interest                              8,109      9,068      9,853    t0,700    12,510    14,520        16,614
Comsissions and Other                      3068    3,870         4,S30      5,079      s,aoo      6,515      7,296               /  Passbook savings account for about 50% of all deposits,
mon ey market instrumets aconut for abost 407,, while
Total Rewesues                               11,177    12,938    14,380    153775    18,310    21,035    23.910                         the remaining 107 is account.ted for by 20 year bhods.
Savings deposits are expected to grow or about 117. per
Expeases:                                                                                                                               anum.
Ieterest Eaponse - Savings                 6,730      7,788      8,804      9,804    10,784    17,004    13,333
Interest Exponse - Borrowings                 38         34         26         21        976      1,931      2,886              L/  Consists of reserves for loan losses and uansaned interest.
Salories and Benefits  j/                  2,737      3,063      3,400      3,700      4,100      4,300      4,910
Other Operating Expenses j                 1,547      1,849      1,900      2,050      2,200      2,300      2,403               /  Assumzed to inarease at a rate in line with inflation.
Total Expens-                                11,052          12,734     14,130    15,575    18,060    20,735    23,i60             it  Represents eapitalitation of retained earnings  per Law
Nvo. 238 of July 0, 19313.
Net Revenue                                        125        204        250        200        250        300        350
RIAll buildings sod facilitieso furnit ure and fixtures,
Source and Application of Funds                                                                                                           vehicles and equdpment are insred against fire and public
Sources:                                                                                                                                lisbility.  Fidelity insturanre covers aal key employees.
Net Revenue - After Reserve
Adjustments                              (   287)        89        196        100        100  (    200)        200
Mortgage Repayments                       17,274    16,091      14,935    18,800    23,250    26,800    30,800
Luan Repayments                            5,560      6,258      6,467      8,600      9,200    10,500    11,970
Custumers Savings                         16,778      4,334    14,686    15,700    18,000    21,100    24,009
Laans                                       -          -          -         3,800    12,300    14,900        3,500
Capital J/                                   600        150        150        150        150        150        150
Other                                      1,103        874  (    475)        220  (    949) (       80)       100
Total Sources                                41,028          27,796     35,959     49,370    62,051    73,i70    70,7Z9
Applications:
In-estments                             (    208)       100  (    1161         51  (      70)        70         80
m.rtpages                                 26,166    28,674    24,500    29,000    34,850    41,900    50 280
Con-truction Advances                       -          -          -         6,400    13,700    16,600        3,800
Other Loans                                6,164      6,561      6,900      9,900      9,500     10,800    12,300
Debt Repa.yment                               120       170        120        120        320        120        120
urchase of Fixed Assets                      232        598        250        275        350        400        490
Other                                        354  (    146)        516        555        570      1,230      1,200
Total Applicmtions                           32,828    35,907    32,168    45,301    59,020    71,120    68,230
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN LIQUIDITY                8,200  C  8,111)    3,791        4,069      3,031      2,050      2,499
Financial Data
Average Cost of Capital                         5.5        6.2        6.5        4.5        6.8        6.8        7.1
Average Interest of Lending                     7.0        8.9        8.8        8.8        9.1        9.1       9.1
Interest Rate Spread                             1.5        7.7       2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3        2.0






- 64 -
ANNEX 5
PANAMA                                                                                          Page I
COLON URBAN DEVELEPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of ieturn at Constant Prites
('000 in 1979 Prices)
Converted to Efficiency Prices
.1984-
1980            1981               1982            1983               1998           1999
Conmercial E-tate
Costs:                                                                                                                                                 */  Repressnos an nppartunitp cast of 0SS4 nfor land.
Land  al1                                 5,240              ---                                -                                                   1    .~..~.           p--t    .                S4~    -1d
Capital Coats  hI                         5,154             ,7              4564             537                  - _                                    Includes enineerng  and deeign, supervision and
perapittn Coevt                              -                106             i,54             402               479              479                    physical contingencies.
Oi5ZgZ           ____ F ~ 7 7;    4,8-48           T_  -M  Ns 4^gee generated by the oreati-n of 3,000 (vbe at
Renefitn:- ana--ragaoaer-te Eof US02,556 p-r annur.
Rental R--nnues                                            1,100            2,949            3,950             4,999            4,999               d(  Waes  genera-td by the orestion of 5,000 JIbs by
Wages tevertatd   d1                         -             2 812             7 540          II 096            12,780           12 280                    t985 at an average nags rats of as32,556 per
W . -   Gt                       1 4 , 0 4 6 -1     7d2u                                                                            s,, - Z   a n n u m .
Net Renefits:                                                                                                                                          e    Represents a-ost of US$52 n  for land.
Eto.idiog Waase  -enerted               (10,394)          (7,584)         ( 1,899)          (1,489)            4,520            4,520
Inciuding W.age  G-eerated              510,394)          (4,772)           5,641            8,607            17,300           17,300
industrial Rstate
Coats:
Land   a/                                 5,120              -                -                -                 -                _
Capital Coete  bh                         4,436            5,r44            4,722            4,958
Operating Coete                              -               211              565              804               958              938
5,755            ,2              5.762                958              958
RentaL Revanoe'                              _             2,008            4,839            6,930             9,129            9,129
Wages Ge-erated cl            _                              64                              5   8
Net Benefite:
En_lodini Wanes Ge-nraced                (9,556)          (3,747)          (  448)           1,176             8,171            8,171
Inciuding Wages G-naroted                (9,556)          (2,060)           3,61D            7,004            15,839           15,839
Poerto Esoo.dido - Hogaina Component
Land u/                                   3 640             -                 -               -
Capital Coets  b/                         6,921           12,004           12,202            3,496              -                _
Maintenance Coets                           -                 227             621            1,021             1,021            1,021
10,561          12.231           12,823            4,517             1,021            1,021
Benf its:
inp.ted Retnal Value                       -                 737            3,783            7,289             7,289           10,929
Net Benefits                               (10,561)        (11,494)         ( 9,040)           2,772             6,268            9,908
Retail Rail
Land  el                                     260                              -
Capital Caste  h/                            245           3,336              776             -                 -                -
Operating Costs                            -                   17             227              273               273              273
505           f               1,003               7273
Benefi*ts:
Rental Rvenue                               -                  51              707             851             1,902            1,902
Other Peee                                 -                   15               15               15                15             15
-=                 66              722             86              1,917            1.917
Nst .. fsict.                         (   505)          (3.287)             2 081)           593             1,644            1,644



-65 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 1
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Urban and Regional Planning
Autoridad del Canal de Panamai, Plan General de Usos del Suelo para el Area y
la Cuenca Hidrogrfifica del Canal de Panama, Panama, septiembre de 1979,
102 pages.
MIPPE/MIVI, Desarrollo Urbano de Col6n:  Marco de Referencia para la Eje-
cucion de Proyectos, Panama, octubre de 1978.
MIPPE, Marco F'sico para eI Desarrollo Urbano de Col6n (Documento Prelimi-
nar) Panam'a, enero de 1979, 82 pages.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi. Housing
Caja de Ahorros, Solicitud de Prestamo Hipotecario (Formulario, Panama,
1979, 2 pages.
C'amara Panamnea de la Construccion, Lista de Precios de Materiales de
Construcci6n, Panama, 15 de oct-abre, de 1979, 123 pages.
.Camara Panamera de la Construccion, Robert C. Wildeman, "Discurso al VII
Con-eso Interamericano de ia Vrivienda," Ciudad de Panama, noviembre de 1979,
23 pages.
MIPPE, Analisis de la Situacion Socio-Econnomica de la Poblacion Encuestada
por la Comision de la Renovacion Urbana (COREUR) en la Ciudad de Col6n en el
Afno 1978 (Documento Preliminar) (by Agustan Garcia L. and Genda de Bern),
Panama, mayo de 1979, 6 pages.
MIVI, Col6n y su Area de Influencia, Panama', mayo de 1977, 116 pages.
MIVI, Plan Normativo de la Ciudad de Col6n. Panama, julio de 1976.
MIVI, Legislaci6n sobre Renovacion Urbana, Panama, Julio de 1978.
MIvi, Propuesta para Sub-Centro Urbano en Puerto Escondido, Colon, Panama,
1979, 179 pages and 5 annexes.
MIVI, Especificaciones Tecnicas:  Urbanizacion Viviendas en Hilera y Adosadas
Multifamiliares. Panama, nd. 200 pages.
MTVI, Sub-Centro Urbano en Puerto Escondido: An'alisis de Aspectos Fisico-
Geograficos y Ambientales (by Mario Castillo), Panama', mayo de 1979, 26 pages.
HIVI, Prapuesta para Sub-Centro Urbano en Puerto Escondido, Col6n: Modifica-
ciones y Anexos a la Propuesta Original, Panama, enero de 1980 (in two
volumes).
MIVI, Zonificacion, Ciudad de Colon (MAP), Panama, junio de 1979.
B2. Employment
INDESA Investigacion y Desarrollo, S.A., Zona Libre de Colon Area Industrial:



- 66 -                              Page 2
Sintesis General, Panam6, 1979, 95 pages.
.Livesey, Henderson and Partners, Estudio para el Desarrollo de la Zona Libre
de Col6n:  Informe Econ6mico (in two volumes), Panama-, n/d.
.Zona Libre de Colon, Proyecciones de Edificaciones Requeridas v Programa de
Implementaci6n. Panama. 1979.
.Zona Libre de Colon, Gula para el Establecimiento de Empresas Comerciales e
Industriales en la Zona Libre de Colon, Panamai, octubre de 1979, 96 pages.
B3.Education, Culture and Health
.DINAR, Ministerio de Educaci6n,Necesidades Educativas para el Sub-Centro Urbano
de Puerto Escondido, Provincia de Colon, Panama., noviembre de 1979, 37 pages.
.DINAR, Ministerio de Educacion, Especificacion de Mobiliario para Centros
Educativos de 1 a 9 grado, Panama, noviembre de 1979, 31 pages.
.DINAR, Ministerio de Educaci6n, Equipamiento Para Centro Educativo de 1 a 9
grado, Panama, noviembre de 1979, 14 pages.
.DINAR, Ministerio de Educaci6n, Especificaciones Tecnicas Para la Construccion
de Escuelas: Programa Ministerio de Educaci6n/Banco Mundial, Proyecto Puerto
Escondido, Col6n, Centro Educativo, 1 a 6. 1 a 9i 7 a 9. Panama., noviembre de
1979, 117 pages.
.DINAR, Ministerio de Educacion, Equipamiento para Centro Educativo de 1 a 9
Grado (Talleres Unitarios), Panama., noviembre 1979.
.DINAR, Ministerio de Educacion, Especificaciones para la Construcci6n del
Centro Cultural en Puerto Escondido, Provincia de Col6n, Panama, enero 1980,
52 pages.
.Ministerio de Educacion, Programa de Desarrollo de Co16n. Sub-Prograna.de
Educacion Tecnica r Profesional. (in two volumes), Panama, 1979.
.Ministerio de Trabajo y Bienestar Social (MITRAE), Servicio Nacional de Formacion
Profesional. Ante-Provecto Programas de Formacion Profesional para el Proyecto
de Desarrollo de Col6n. Panama., agosto de 1979.
.MITRAB/MIPPE, El Plan de Desarrollo de Col6n: Su Componente de Empleo y
Recursos Humanos, "Sintesis Informativo. Panama, Julio de 1979.
.Ministerio de Salud, Especificaciones para la Construccion del Centro de Salud
Tipo "U" Proyecto Puerto Escondido, Colon, Panama, noviembre de 1979, 90 pages.
Bl .Public Utilities and Site Infrastructure
.Luis Carlos Cho, Consideraciones sobre el suelo de Old France Field, Col6n,
Panamza, Julio de 1978.
.IRHE, Programa de Desarrollo de Colon 1980-1984, Informe Ejecutivo, Panama,
agosto de 1979.
.IRHE, Presupuestos Preliminares Para el Suministro de Energia a las Nuevas
Areas Comerciales de Zona Libre, Panama, noviembre de 1979.
.Instituto Politecnico, Universidad de Panama, Estudio de Suelos para el Area
Comercial de la Zona Libre de Col6n (Espansi6n Futura), Panama, octubre de
1979.
.MIVI, Estudios de Suelo Para la Urbanizacion de Puerto Escondido en Col6n.
Panama, noviembre de 1979.
.Sociedad Italo-Panamefla de Consultoria Cerpi-Indesa, Proyecto para la Urbani-
zacion del Area Industrial de la Zona Libre de Col6n (Informe Final) in two
volumes, Panama. 1979.



ANNEX 6
- 67-                                  Page 3
B5.Transportation. Transport Terminals and Ports
.Autoridad del Canal de Panmanm, Anteproyecto Nuevo Terminal Ferroviario, (pre-
parado por Direcci6n de Ferrocarril), Panama, septiembre de 1979.
.Autoridad Portuaria Nacional, Anteprovecto de Desarrollo de Facilidades Para
el Manejo de Contenedores en el Puerto de Crist6bal, Panama., noviembre 1979,
43 pages and annexes.
.MIPPE, Estudio de Factibilidad Terminal de Transporte Publico de Pasajeros
de la Ciudad de Col6n. Provincia de Colon (by Departamento de Terminales
de Transporte), Panama., septiembre de 1979, 94 pages.
.MOP, Previsiones de Tr'afico en la Carretera Boyd-Roosevelt, Panama, 1979,
101 pages.
.Tudor Engineering Co. and Empresa Consultora de Arquitectura e Ingenieria, S.A.
Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnica y Economica de la Autopista Panama'-Colon,
(Informe al MOP), Panama, junio de 1973, 407 pages. (Also available in English
"Technical and Economic Feasibility Study of the Panama.-Colon Freeway").
B6.ProAect Management
.MIPPE, Organizaci6n y Administracion del Programa (de Desarrollo de Colon),
Panama., noviembre de 1979.



4hi~~~~~~i
~~_  ,    mm 
The inner-city slum tenements are often in an advanced state of disrepair and their
structural weaknesses are plainly visible, including bulging outer walls temporarily
buttressed by wooden supports or corrugated iron sheeting. The physical deteriora-
tion is such that a large number of the buildings have been condemned by public
safety authorities.






In the Barrio Norte area of Colon, some structures have collapsed.
E-L
'a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
Spontaneous squatter settlements, such as La Playita, have developed as a result
of the deteriorating housing conditions.






V7 ~~~4
'A
L .               - .
The expansion of the Free Zone will almost double the volume of container traffic
through the port of Gristobal. The port improvement component consists of an
extension to the existing container handling facility of the port.






The duty-free warehousing and commercial operations of the Free Zone represent
a large proportion of the economic activity in Colon.
401
ow H w~~
frondtyfewaeosn and offrommerctpoenial fopteatractions of tourist Zond shpepresento
Colarepootinonh.cooi   ciit   nCln
, S .r ,4~~j1
r              t >  
.ri"  ';""ya
'" ;1|1' fa
.}  "'''-V'~~~~~~~~~~~~M
,''  N~ ~~~
Th  sret  sroudigth  prpoe  reai  malbidn   r   oae   ntewtr
frn   ndofrexeln  ptnil  o   h  atatono   orit   n  shope                         s t
Colon.F 






.~~ ~ ~ O
The industrial component is expected to result in a large number of jobs for
women in industries such as the garment industry (above) and pharmaceuticals (below).






-                                             - lw     -
NW I
~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~~~~M
Al  ' W ii  > 
other types of industries which are likely to be attracted by the project include
electronics assembly (above) and precious stone-cutting operations (below).






RBRD 14676
*::  tS'  >                                      sr                                                51-                                               eo-                                               79-I78M MARCH  1nCH   1
%,j                                         ~~~~~~~P A NAMA                                                                                                                   ISot~mCLN I*LASOE SA. BLAS                  4 ''8              A            5FA
,-  ,      .~                                                                                                                                                 -        -                  o,e            aooaN- 
COLONURBAN  ;
A               * =oerto C,oinri'  P      N   A M   Ao                      S A *
*TL  Volcon  SogLetBBOcAS DEL TRo                                 ---~                                                                                                                                                           N DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  N k_
g = S; =', ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ADMI\NISTRATIVE AND PLANNING DIVISIONS                                                                SouC. XN 0 \X~-                                                                                     S           DAl;g.,,di
<>:  1  ,,.,       CerrOo SPuGn loo                                                                       .                                                                                                                                   A'   F1       E    N hreo>7 t      
5 Frogtesgb  /           _* DAVID   C H i R I Q Ui                                         *        -Lo Ycguodo             * >   Penonorse  1\    0rACiPLG                                                                     '' :R           !     \Y-v0  
oboloRAGASSon CorIos  D        E LAS PEC LAS      * h                         ',-
C C) L- Vi; N                                                                  P     Cocos                      -
,, J                                                                   '                                                         ton'a Dgrdlo                             -       ner-Arerocor H ghooy                              *C orooochn                 EISedl0 T
ah.S a.lm,.yz .... lwth.t.a+~~~~~~~~~~~~-. ...o<NSi.......;G                                                                                           'jIo gERRERA    L;s SanGtor Am  UIedB     ormdo  g15
Duor.pam.s.t   bbd.n u'  P       /0                    *Y Guorare                                   0[emor,    airporNE,-
UNITES                  w-,-B h gTES A                                   U           -               /       *    P e                  Losng Tables;  IVmoono Conol                                                                           * ''
*C-. P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~* o,,of.cSOo
Lt;   j.            ~~CIrC      0t ej   @o               ISLA                          'aod                                                    Pen PBooz  'L05  SANTOSg Irn \edre                                                           -g *                      iF23  /'f1j
N. *>_   >                dAHAAIj* .T  HAITI 5DAM.             SE                                       r                          ~                  *pedasi                                                                                      U> Jou                   ,        -fC  A  0i
'szDRA5R   '-4i__RP.6                                          1  COUIBA                                                                                                                            T*                                                                         i '',/AR' #O U1-
GUb;iX NICARAGUA                                                                 ,.     g                                                            (                                                                                                               *nIl  1 ;'- ,Goif NAMA
EL SALVADOR  PANAM A          *-:                                                                                                                          0v 0S   000000N  U                                                                                .     .i rA- NfMi*i  j
RtCA~~~ ~~~~ ;           C A Sd   D E Lp                                                                                                                              zc 0; R0              s                                                                                r, 0 C.i,
o'4t/F/ - C2'~~~~B.AjVFu       al0/F/t                                                            . .                                                                 OT,,b .p g e2.tJ Gir4-G.2i
IBCms s;3Gilfgl 0    P0 K4                                   tOYdI C,Rs 7S TS o.GJ I . C L E  T
I400. L(Y4V               Cool'               h Co           5'                       ,                                                                 0                                                                                                                         .. L'  C,pi






IBRD -14677
PANAMA                                                                       -                 ,fRnnri' f
o-L.                                                COLON   URBAN    DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                         /      "        9o    RcO- rEXCO< ZEa   a
COLON SUB-REGION 5 ,4:N >tr5o
Malia CRoasta        .,/
R al-roadr!                                                                     |                     aok'
dvilt                        LOp                                                       Pre,s < ! X  16ft (
-   Mao   RSads                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'   M_                     __  _  __  __  _ __   _
Secondary Roads                                                                                                                 /~~~~~~~ty  -t
:707 ~   ~      ~           ,  ,  (        ra   --~ -e                              ,,H<R  K:                                        'h--,'  p-'rO gi - --
N  P ->G>-  > < 9     |  -d.>3'' 4%/ -  ? n .,   X,                           3
0      /  .  4                      I                     r _,.                                                    .,\                                                       , 
4LcETR       -   ))                J                  -                                      -K                              ) u X J M to)
7--45- ~ ~  ~     ~     \        X>--
X t~~~~~~~~~~FAC FIELD Ai PORT






IBRD 14678R
PA NAMAA
COLON  URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                      OR OF B TA:E
Project Locations                                                              B,                                          J.
PROJECT AREAS
7   j PAS OF FUTJUE DEVFLOFNT                         S               ,'
ROAD TO EE W DENIE
ROAD T BE STRFRJNT+TE' DL /
__ M TS CE PANVATER CATRHMEpET AREAS                                                        .\
CAIOLO AND PPRA,, SDpPp~ppj                                                                                                                                                                  C
-    tEls AER PRT STREALMS                                                                                                                                                                           I; rcAc  l\-:      , ~       , S S l    t: \ -_
-   NR ROARS                                    >~p         C  OO
=    ECCNDAYR ROADS
B.. V.P AREAS
<C~~~~~~~~~~                                                          t
D TRiET<\J                                          P-
7                  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A                                                                                     i~~~~~~~"
\ s.T,< S _ tr/ ~~~ ~~-                                                           7             /(!.        /                            -,  to>
N>"""~~~SA'  E  ~~~  ETESETEJOPHAS
CATA             USRT  E  C>  MBPL<F4
RICA~~~~~~
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C    \B   \                                                                                                                         /           t ,b  OBE }2r-    '  ( {t   
r                           B'ov Pe@m ~ f l\ (tt                            t/                         \ __          \          l          0/                                           +        v );  






IBRD 14679
+            ffL7 S 90558JR*S  JAM6 CA   ^R        \ ! 20   >          :::,,  / A/lPA NAMA
SgV,60R,~~~~~~~~~~~ J~     COLON   URBAN   DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
4.4+ j 1                                                                                   Lv.iEh.rc   :  ; 2: ]'1\   ''- >  < t g   fl   Zona Libre - CoCmmercial Area
95AC '/'  ~serco                                  L                                                  C|   t' D   -    O\                                                0FF{r [iPhase1(3cuNDwr
00                                                                                                                                              Phase 1(13 hc )
_________-_______'________ _.______________L                                                                                                                Pha \(22h.)
0f                     0 VfGre Ar-as
WARS ?                                                                                  74 F   Eaist,Rg R-,en S  be Ca-1-d
J0j7       j                   -o)110
71~~~~~~~~~~1'
'1  1
I.-,.- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z  .I.






, < zJ Fr9| ji.;g.3   Fol                    .                     E                                                                                             __          I B R D 14 6 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR   168
:   t              ~~~~~-. AD7      10                                                                                   '            ;             COLON URBAN OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_ 9 z ~~~~~~~~~~~~AHOIEL   ''_     
; S U 1 f 0  t Q Q f z  A D A; 0 -  ~ S X ' \ 
ki Srgr;t00t0\;\;\0  "                     4          (W4                                             t\ ~                             \X-==~gVZA ;x0 \z 
,F 0 p) '\ I Sp o1 i & _ I j iE AC~~~~~~~~03                                                                       SL!  G\-W\;\ -tf -\1<|SV- \1
.t   : Au S.;                                '^\\\     \0 S                it f tW\\ r          _  _           \ j \\  Aa        i\    e   \  \        \\,        v 
Ww kwv, W ig De.ty RIsi"" Bo9dsngp                                                                                                                            u     ,   
::'.9tS  : . _ bs(Pwrtigsol 604sv                                     L    LA      I v'       9,i9  \9\\i9'\g.   ;eF---                                  \ _=~           a                   _i
I :::.  ' .   -  i;    f         f   :                   0   ~        ~        ~          ~           ~~~                                                                 ~~~PLAI  -------  f A
gSb . 0 9  $ 0  0 0   2 \0 0 \ D    ;    \ t    \      \ 0      MaUSU\                                                                u      \j       _-A        -    =\ 
sre     A    X 2S J2 |   \      3: 0 2 r   ;           3|                  \  % 2         \94
.   A   9U   U  i  .  '  '  A ; \ :;; 0 . 0 U;:, 3 S S $ ! E E ) t w gj
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIWYSAI
; 00;vi  ;i i,  0 0  ..... C,r5).L






raw,osot boxnnn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~'p.dlRdlf Ao
A-                                                         A->8~~~~~~~~~~~~~'..     p..  .l~t,.~y
-          7                                                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  Co - H T
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
,   >Et2tER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MTR
j30    \\                      'N             /                /0  /PANAM
7~~~~A  act0O ON U BA /VEOP EN                                                                   POJC
r\4\  ijj4                                                            /~~~~~~~Pero Esodio HosngSt
50100Prlm  ar   ayu



