Document of                       FILE  
The World Bank                         FIL            '
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rq.W No. P-277 2-PAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR
THE COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1980
This dount has a rerted dirbuts ad may be usd by recipknts only i the peWmxn  of  I
Ithr   dal dutdes. Its ce..ts may not otherwe be disdlood withou Wodd Bank auterddtlm.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Balboa (B/. 1)
US$1 = B/. 1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins;
the U.S. dollar (US$) is accepted as currency.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2  =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
APN       - Autoridad Portuaria Nacional (National Port Authority)
BNP       -  Banco Nacional de Panama (National Bank of Panama)
BLADEX    -  Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones (Latin American Export Bank)
Caja      -  Caja de Ahorros (Savings Bank)
CFZ       -  Colon Free Zone (Free Zone)
COFINA    -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional (National Finance Corporation)
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -  Gross National Product
IBJ       -  Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited
IDAAN     -  Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales
(National Water and Sewerage Institute)
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFC       -  International Finance Corporation
INAC      -  Instituto Nacional de Asuntos Culturales
(National Cultural Institute)
IRHE      -  Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion
(Institute of Hydraulic Resources and Electrification)
LIBOR     - London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MIPPE     - Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica
(Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy)
MIVI      -  Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo (Ministry of Housing)
MOE       - Ministerio de Educacion (Ministry of Education)
MOP       - Ministerio de Obras Publicas (Ministry of Public Works)
RENARE    -  Instituto de Recursos Renovables
(National Parks Authority)
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Panama
Amount:             US$35 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 17 years including 4 years of grace at an
interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum.
Co-lenders:         Private banks led by the Industrial Bank of Japan,
Limited (IBJ).
Project             The Project is divided into five major sub-projects
Description:      as follows:
(1) Urban Employment: extension by 35 ha of the Colon
Free Zone's existing 57 ha duty-free commercial area,
and first phase (35 ha) of a general purpose industrial
estate catering primarily to assembly operations and
light manufacturing.
(2)   Urban Renewal:  construction of a retail mall and a
bus terminal.
(3) Housing and Social Services: urbanization of a 118 ha
site (Puerto Escondido) and construction of 4,025
dwelling units (about 300 in downtown Colon and the
remainder in the Puerto Escondido); construction of
community facilities in Puerto Escondido, and provision
of home improvement credits.
(4) Regional Infrastructure: improvements of the Port of
Cristobal; improvements of the Colon access section of
the Panama City-Colon Highway; establishment of a
regional education center and construction of recrea-
tional facilities to serve Colon.
(5) Technical Assistance: consulting and extension services
related to the regional development program, project
monitoring and evaluation, urban transport operations
management, port and railway development and profes-
sional development.
About 4,000 low-income families would benefit from the
housing component and about 8,000 new jobs would be
created by the Free Zone expansion. These two figures
are not additive since substantial overlap between the
two components is expected.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                  ----US$ millions------      % Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total      Exchange
A.   Urban Employment
Commercial Estate                    4.16    10.19    14.35          71
Industrial Estate                    7.33     5.31    12.64          42
Interest during Construction         6.58     5.22    11.80          44
Subtotal A                       18.07    20.72    38.79          53
B.   Urban Renewal
Retail Mall                          1.70      1.13     2.83         40
Bus Terminal                         0.75      0.47     1.22         40
Subtotal B                        2.45     1.60      4.05         40
C.   Housing and Social Services
Low-Income Housing                  14.61      9.74    24.35         40
Community Facilities                 1.99      0.85     2.84         30
Home Improvement Credits             2.10     0.90      3.00         30
Subtotal C                       18.70    11.49    30.19          38
D.   Regional Infrastructure
Port Improvements (including
interest during construction)    2.90       4.73      7.63         62
Road Improvements                    2.32      3.48     5.80         60
Regional Education Center            1.37      2.06     3.43         60
Recreational Facilities:
Fort San Lorenzo                   0.21     0.09      0.30         30
Gatun Lake                         0.21     0.09      0.30         30
Subtotal D                        7.01    10.45    17.46          58
E.   Technical Assistance                   1.00      1.00      2.00        50
F.   Design and Supervision                 5.45      1.36      6.81        20
Base Costs (Subtotal A-F)        52.68    46.62    99.30          47
Physical Contingencies                 5.20      4.60     9.80         47
Price Contingencies                   12-89    11.34    23.23          47
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         70.77    62.56   133.33          47



- iii -
Risks:                Those associated with new programs involving a number of
agencies. The strong endorsement by the Government and
the experience of the implementing agencies minimize the
risk.
Financing Plan:
% of
US$ Million    Project Cost
The Colon Free Zone                       8.1               6
The Caja de Ahorros                      19.2               14
The National Port Authority               1.0                1
World Bank                               35.0              26
Private Banks                           70.0               53
133.3             100
Disbursements:                            --------US$ millions--------
Bank FY:            1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual               7.0    12.3    10.8       4.9
Cumulative           7.0    19.3    30.1    35.0
Rate of Return:       21 percent for those components of the project which
have readily quantifiable benefits and which represent
87 percent of project costs.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2903-PAN of May 20, 1980.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR THE COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Panama for the equivalent of US$35 million to help
finance the Colon Urban Development Project.  The loan would have a term of
17 years, including a four-year grace period, with interest at 8.25 percent
per annum. The Project would be co-financed by a group of banks led by the
Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited (IBJ).  Private bank participation would
be for a total of US$70 million which would be arranged through a series of
loans. The private bank loans would be to the Colon Free Zone, with the
guarantee of the Republic of Panama.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Panama's Development in the 1980's:  A Special
Economic Report" (2306-PAN) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
July 31, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Between 1955 and 1973 GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7 per-
cent. Services, manufacturing and construction were leading sectors, their
growth being stimulated by the buoyancy of world trade, the emergence of Panama
as a regional banking center, and a strategy of industrial import substitu-
tion. In contrast, the average annual rate of growth since 1973 has been
about 2 percent, and real per capita GDP has fallen. Panama's open economy
has been seriously affected by the sharp rises in petroleum prices since
1973, and by the recession in international trade in 1974-75 and its slow
pace of recovery thereafter. Preliminary estimates suggest that recently
there has been a mild recovery in the economy, with growth reaching 3.7 percent
in 1978 and 4.9 percent in 1979. This recovery has been associated with in-
creasing activity in the services and construction sectors.
4.        The Government's three main concerns since 1968 have been to
eliminate rural poverty, to increase national control over the economy,
including the Panama Canal, and to create new sources of economic growth and
exports.  Social programs in health and education were extended to most areas,
and an agrarian reform program was initiated. Major investments were under-
taken in transport, tourism, international commercial infrastructure, water
sewerage, and power, mostly to provide support for expected private activities.
Power and most of telecommunications facilities were nationalized. New State
enterprises were created for export crops such as sugar, citrus, and bananas;
and a State-owned cement plant was built. Self-sufficiency in basic food-
stuffs such as rice, corn, and beans was also accorded high priority.



- 2 -
5.        The Government's social programs have had considerable success in
enhancing the quality of life in Panama, especially as reflected in mortality,
health and educational indicators. Infant mortality declined by 20 percent
between 1968 and 1976, while fertility rates fell from 131.3 per thousand in
1971 to 114.0 per thousand in 1975. Access to potable water for the rural
population increased from 43 percent in 1970 to 63 percent in 1976. The
proportion of the population enrolled in schools of all types increased from
less than one-quarter to over one-third between 1968 and 1978. Despite these
achievements, estimates indicate that some 21 percent of the urban and about
30 percent of the rural population continue to live in severe poverty with
access to employment being inadequate to ensure satisfactory nutritional
intake and decent housing.
6.        The Government's economic programs, especially those involving direct
production and incentives to the private sector, have had mixed results.
Agricultural production programs have led to self-sufficiency in rice but
have had less impact on output of beef, milk, and beans. State production
of sugar has increased exportable output but the enterprise has operated un-
profitably. State enterprises in cement and tourism have also been unprofit-
able and together with that of the sugar operations their deficit has been a
continuing burden on the fisc. On the other hand, some projects like the
Colon Free Zone and hydro-electric installations have been quite success-
ful, in the first case by increasing earnings from export of services, and in
the second by reducing the burden of rising petroleum costs. The climate for
private investment has been affected by uncertainties relating to Government
labor policies and by widespread price controls on consumer goods.
7.        The high level of outlays for economic and social infrastructure
coupled with the substantial losses of State enterprises resulted in significant
increases in the public external debt, despite periodic efforts to strengthen
the public finances. The public sector deficit increased from 4.6 percent of
GDP in 1970 to 18.5 percent of GDP in 1976. Measures taken in 1977--new taxes
(including a 5 percent value added tax), significant increases in utility rates,
and a freeze of civil service salaries-- reduced the deficit to 13.4 percent
of GDP in that year. However, in 1978, the public sector deficit rose to 15.4
percent of GDP due to a faster rate of project implementation, higher interest
costs, increased outlays under an emergency employment program introduced
late in 1977, and the increased deficit of the state sugar operations. In 1979
the deficit fell to 11.1 percent of GDP largely as a result of a reduction in
investment. In spite of the improvement, the actual deficit was slightly above
that expected by the Government and the ceiling established in an IMF Standby
Agreement.  Increased revenues were offset by higher interest and oil costs,
thereby continuing the virtual absence of public sector savings during recent
years. Deficits of State enterprises in sugar, cement and tourism continued
to weigh heavily in public sector finances.
8.        At the end of 1978, Panama's disbursed external public debt was
US$1.9 billion or just over 80 percent of GDP. Loans from commercial financial
institutions and suppliers' credits accounted for 65 percent, the remainder
being equally divided among multilateral, bilateral, and bond holding sources.
During 1979 the disbursed public external debt rose by an estimated US$193
million. Public external debt service in relation to GDP has been estimated



- 3 -
at 13 percent in 1979 compared to 7 percent in 1977; and in relation to public
revenues has been estimated at 37 percent in 1979 compared to 27 percent in
1977. These reflect both the rapid growth in the debt and the impact of
recent increases in the interest cost of debt held by commercial sources at
floating rates tied to 7 IBOR. Because of Panama's unique financial structure,
characterized by the absence of a Central Bank and by the use of the U.S. dollar
for domestic transactions, foreign exchange flows into and out of the economy
are unrestricted. Capital flows are ever. more important than export earnings
in determining the availability of funds for servicing the external debt of
the economy. The Government's ability to service the public debt ultimately
depends on its ability to generate savings in the public sector or marshall
new borrowings to refinance payments on past ones.
9.        Early in 1980, the Government of Panama took a series of actions in
an effort to reduce the public sector deficit toward a goal of 8 percent of
GDP in 1980 and 6 percent of GDP in 1981. These measures included increases
in taxes on gasoline and cigarettes and in maritime and corporate registration
fees, improvements in income tax administration and the elimination of income
tax exonerations for shrimp boats and processing plants. Also included were re-
ductions in current and capital transfers to decentralized agencies and public
enterprises, which in turn adjusted or will adjust prices, remove or reduce
subsidies, and/or adjust operations in order to absorb the reduction in
transfers. Already the prices of 19 basic items including milk, bread, and
tomatoes, mostly distributed through the Agricultural Marketing Institute and
rental rates charged by the State Machinery Pool have been increased. Some
profitable agencies, e.g., the telecommunications company and the Colon Free
Zone, have been required to increase their transfers to Central Government.
The emergency employment program--Plan de Urgencia--orginally introduced in
November 1977 with 1,059 workers but which rose to 17,146 by the end of
February, 1980, has been discontinued as of the latter date. In conjunction
with favorable sugar prices which will reduce the deficit of the state sugar
company, and a major increase in canal revenues, these measures appear suffi-
cient to realize the targetted reduction in public sector deficit for 1980,
despite pressure of rising salary, interest, and energy costs. However, the
1981 target may be difficult to achieve without specific action to reduce the
chronic operating deficits of State enterprises. The Government is investigat-
ing the possible sale of its cement plant and is committed to seeking ways to
rationalize sugar operations after the current crop ends in June. The Inter-
national Monetary Fund will be supporting the Government's economic program
with a two-year standby, under which Panama will become eligible for support
amounting to US$130 million.
10.       Given the need to restrain the growth of the public external debt
and the poor prospects for increasing public savings substantially it is
unlikely that public investment can provide the major impulse to Panamanian
growth within the near and intermediate future. The strategy for recovery
and growth of the economy now requires that private capital and entrepreneurs
provide the buoyancy in economic activity which the Government can no longer
provide. New opportunities have indeed been created for the private sector.
The high level of public investment over the years has provided an expanded
physical infrastructure and a relatively skilled labor force. Investments
in hydropower are reducing Panama's dependence on increasingly-expensive



imported petroleum. Tax incentives and financing facilities for industry are
readily available. In agriculture, recent increases in support prices and
provision of credit facilities are designed to realize the potential for
increased production and exports of bananas, grass-fed beef, fresh fruit,
cocoa, and coffee, and for replacing imports of vegetable oils and dairy
products in local consumption.
11.       The prospects for growth also depend on the use of land and facili-
ties reverting to Panama and on the higher earnings to be received by Panama
under the new Canal Treaty. Implementation of the treaty began on October 1,
1979 and will be completed on December 31, 1999, when the Canal and all
ancillary facilities will revert to Panama. Already the ports of Balboa and
Cristobal, two abandoned airfields, much valuable land, and most service
outlets of the former Panama Canal Company's supply division have reverted to
Panama. The reverting land makes even more feasible a spatial orientation
in development strategy which emphasizes the metropolitan area, bounding
the Canal and traversing the isthmus from the Atlantic to the Pacific, as the
best site for activities to take advantage of Panama's excellent geographic
location. The Government is actively planning the conservation and further
development of infrastructure in this area for expanded private sector activi-
ties which would generate employment, revenues and rents adequate to pay for
these public investments.
12.       Although the longer-term outlook for the Panamanian economy seems
favorable, given its geographic advantages, a low population/land ratio, and
large hydroelectric potential, the medium-term outlook will depend on the
public policy approach to certain critical domestic issues and on the perfor-
mance of the international economy, specifically regarding trade, financial
mediation and other services. The critical domestic issues include the growth
of the public external debt, the relative roles of the public and private
sectors, and the climate for private investment--especially as regards prices
and wages policies. The Government is now keenly aware of these issues. It
has developed and is continuing a dialogue with businessmen, and has recognized
the need for a more flexible approach to price control and the need to reduce
its direct involvement in activities which not only compete with the private
sector, but often operate at a loss. Recently it has acted decisively to
reduce the public sector deficit and slow the growth of the public external
debt. The effect of these actions will be reinforced should the recent
resurgence in growth continue. The Bank will be monitoring the impact of
recent measures and is continuing a dialogue with the Government as it seeks
to reduce the losses of public enterprises, while encouraging higher growth and
greater employment. On the basis of the fiscal measures recently taken by the
Government, its open and frank participation in a dialogue with the Bank, and
the favorable longer-term outlook, we consider Panama creditworthy for Bank
lending, provided it abides by the targets it has set itself in the fiscal
adjustment program for 1980 and 1981.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       The Bank has to date made nineteen loans to Panama totalling US$278.2
million (net of cancellations). Of these, nine loans for US$107.4 million,
are fully disbursed (two for roads totalling US$13 million; one for an airport



project for US$20 million; three for agriculture totalling US$4.4 million, two
for power for US$46 million and one for ports for US$24 million). Ongoing
operations include two projects for livestock credit; one for fisheries; one
for development of tropical trees, one in development banking; three in the
power sector (for generation, transmission and distribution); a project to
help develop the water supply and sewerage sector; and one for highway mainte-
nance. The most recent loan, for a power distribution project, was approved
by the Executive Directors in December 1979. Execution of Bank-financed
projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory, although delays and cost
overruns occurred particularly with respect to the Tocumen Airport and the
Second Power Projects, both of which have now been completed.
14.       IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a commitment
in 1971 to acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de Desarrollo
Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to build a new
international hotel. This project was satisfactorily completed. The second
is a commitment approved by the Executive Directors in December 1977 to lend
US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million in equity in Vidrios de Panama, S.A.,
the first glass container factory in Panama. The project has been completed and
operations were recently initiated. The third is a commitment to acquire US$2.5
million in equity in the Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones (BLADEX), a
regional export bank proposed and promoted by the Government of Panama. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of April
30, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy particularly as regards the further development of
Panama's service industries and the diversification of production and
exports. Specifically, the Bank assists those sectors in which it can make
a special contribution in terms of (i) developing policies and institutions,
(ii) removing infrastructure bottlenecks, and (iii) better utilizing the
country's natural resources. In addition, we hope to assist the Government
to address the needs which will result from the transfer to Panama of the
areas adjacent to the Canal. The project now under consideration provides an
integrated approach to the development of Colon, a city whose growth was
constrained by its location within the former Canal Zone. Other projects
under active consideration for Bank lending are a second water supply project,
which would support the rehabilitation of the water and sewerage systems in
downtown Colon and in Panama City, a project which would assist in the
rehabilitation of the Canal ports of Cristobal and Balboa and a second
industrial credit operation. The Bank is also considering a government
request for financing the promotion of exploration of energy resources
(particularly petroleum) and technical assistance for energy sector
development.
16.       Both the USAID and the IDB have lent substantial amounts for agricul-
ture and for social services (including family planning in the case of USAID).
Past lending patterns are likely to persist, at least as regards the social
services, because the Government prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for
those sectors, while utilizing assistance received on harder terms for projects
which are expected to result in more immediate economic benefits. In addition
to agriculture and social services, the IDB is financing road construction,
industry and telecommunications, sectors in which it is likely that it will



- 6 -
continue lending. The IDB also participated with the Bank in the financing of
the Fortuna Hydroelectric Project. USAID will concentrate its efforts on man-
power training and projects oriented toward environmental protection. Both IDB
and USAID are also likely to lend for energy, the latter for research on alter-
native sources of energy other than petroleum and the former for rural electri-
fication.
17.       The Bank's share of Panama's pub]icly guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbursed was 5.6 percent at the end of 1978 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service is projected to be 3.8 percent at the
end of 1979. These percentages are expected to drop slightly in the 1980s.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Socio-Economic Characteristics
18.       Panama's comparative advantage lies in activities which take
advantage of the country's location and indeed the commercial and service
sectors (international banking, transshipment, warehousing and insurance)
have accounted for much of the growth of the economy in recent decades. These
sectors are expected to constitute, along with export-oriented industrializa-
tion, the main source of future economic growth. The development of commercial
and service activities has contributed to a high level of urbanization.
Fifty one percent of the total population of 1.8 million in 1979 live in
urban areas (communities of more than 1,500 people). The population is concen-
trated along the corridor bordering the Panama Canal; particularly in Panama
City, the capital, which is located on the Pacific entrance to the Canal, and
to a much lesser extent in Colon, which is located on the Atlantic entrance.
These two cities and their environs form the transisthmic Metropolitan Region,
which contains about 80 percent of the urban population. This urban population
is growing at an annual rate of 3.5 percent, somewhat higher than the national
rate of 2.7 percent. Population growth, has, however, been concentrated in
greater Panama City.
19.       Despite the high level of urbanization there is an absence of
local government machinery. This is explained by the centralization of the
government. For example, most taxes, including property and local improvement
levies are collected at the national level. All public services such as
water and sewerage, power, telecommunications and fire and police protection
are provided by national agencies financed either through tariff charges or
government transfers.
20.       The heavy concentration of urban population in Panama City and Colon
accounts for the Government's decision to give priority to the development of
the Panama City-Colon Metropolitan Region. This decision is also dictated
by the magnitude and intensity of the region's problems. These are most
apparent in Colon, where economic stagnation and a poor investment climate
are, in part, a result of the distorted spatial development pattern of the
city. Manzanillo Island (downtown Colon) was an enclave within the former
Canal Zone and the city's suburban expansion took place in areas beyond the
jurisdiction of the former Zone. These are at a considerable distance from
the city center and from the main sources of employment.



-7-
21.       There have been considerable efforts in the past to address urban
poverty problems by increasing access to services and construction of housing.
Health statistics show the success of these efforts (for example, the death
rate from intestinal diseases declined from 38.8 to 25.6 per 100,000 inhabitancs
in 1971-1975). Housing problems remain severe among the lower income groups.
The existence of rent control has tended to discourage private participation
and government efforts are constrained by insufficient resource mobilization.
The proposed project would channel private savings to low-income housing through
the participation of Caja de Ahorros, a well establi_hed savings institution
described below. Also, the Government has agreed to measures to increase
resource mobilization (para. 26). The program for the development of the
Metropolitan Region which is part of the technical assistance of the proposed
project, would include a review of the impact of rent control and recommenda-
tions for possible changes.
Colon
22.       Colon had a population of 67,800 in 1970.  Its population, descended
mainly from migrant Caribbean workers employed in the construction of the
Canal, has maintained cultural traditions separate from those of the rest of
Panama. This distinctiveness has tended to breed a sense of isolation accen-
tuated by Colon's spatial configuration. Population densities average 294
inhabitants per hectare in central Colon and rise sharply to 1,500 in the
tenement districts. It is estimated that the central city population declined
slightly in the 1970's as a result of suburbanization, and that the population
growth rate in greater Colon has been lower than the national average because
of outmigration. About 38 percent of the population falls below the relative
poverty threshold (family income of US$2,205 per annum). The major sources of
employment in Colon have been the Colon Free Zone and the Port of Cristobal
which account for 75 percent of total employment in the city.
23.       According to a 1975 estimate, 60 percent of all dwellings in
Colon fall below acceptable structural standards. This proportion would rise
to 80 percent if overcrowding were taken into account. The bulk of the
housing stock comprises slum tenement buildings in which households renting a
single room form the major tenancy group. Rental housing accounts for 88
percent of all dwellings in Colon. Forty-five percent of rental payments were
below US$25 per month in 1978, and households with monthly incomes under
US$165 devoted roughly 15 percent of their total expenditures to housing.
Since the immediate postwar period, when defense-related contracts in the
former Canal Zone declined sharply, the economy of the city has continuously
deteriorated. This is shown by the rate of unemployment, which was 18.7
percent in 1950, 21.5 percent in 1960 and 17.4 percent in 1970, and is cur-
rently unofficially estimated to fall in the 25-35 percent range. The pro-
portion of unemployed persons without previous employment experience has risen
from six percent in 1950 to 19 percent in 1960 and 30 percent in 1970.
24.       Despite such initiatives by the Government as the construction of
a Free Zone and an oil refinery, Colon has failed to participate in the rapid
growth of Panama. Moreover, the migration of members of its business and
professional classes to Panama City diminished the community's capacity to
reverse its secular decline. Colon's depressed state, and the related problems
of unemployment, poverty, delinquency and urban blight, allied to increasingly
heated protests of official neglect and unequal treatment by the Government,
lent urgency to the formulation of programs and projects for the city.



-8-
The Government's Program
25.       The Government response to these problems was to create a program
for Colon which seeks to attack the causes as well as the symptoms of urban
poverty through a long-term, multisector, approach. The reversion to Panama of
the former Canal Zone territory on the immediate outskirts of Colon provided
the opportunity to promote the integrated development of the hitherto isolated
central city and its suburban hinterland. The Government requested the Bank to
assist in designing a program that could serve as a basis to identify issues
related to the Metropolitan Region as a whole. The Bank has worked closely
with the Government in the development of this program, which focuses on two
objectives. The first is to immediately address the needs of Colon, such as
the provision of jobs in productive activities and of housing. This forms the
basis of the proposed integrated urban development project. The second objec-
tive is to prepare a development strategy and related policies and programs
for the Metropolitan Region as a whole, using the Colon sub-region program as
a prototype.
26.       The proposed project is expected to bring improvements to land use
in the Colon area and includes the urbanization of areas in the former Canal
Zone. Private developers on Manzanillo Island will benefit from this urbaniza-
tion since publicly-financed programs will have been instrumental in releasing
their land for redevelopment. To recover the cost of this betterment, the
Government would not later than one year after completion of the project,
revise the assessed value of real estate in downtown Colon in order to levy the
appropriate real estate tax (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement). The value
of real estate has been frozen in the recent past as a result of the deteriora-
tion of the city's economy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of the Colon Urban Devel-
opment Project" (No. 2903-PAN) is being distributed separately. The main
features of the loan and project are found at the beginning of this report and
Supplementary Project Data are given in Annex III. Each project component
was prepared by the agency implementing it, in some cases with the assistance
of consultants. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 5 to 8, 1980.
The Government, the Caja de Ahorros, the Colon Free Zone and the National
Port Authority were represented by a Delegation led by Dr. Orville Goodin,
Vice Minister of Finance and Treasury.
Project Concept
28.       In great measure the success achieved in restoring urban economic
growth and generating new sources of employment in Colon will determine the
rate at which low-income groups improve their housing conditions and access
to urban services. In Colon, as in many other cities throughout the world,
the attainment of a certain minimum level of income sufficient to establish
the household's capacity to meet mortgage repayments remains a sine qua non
for access to low-income housing programs. With this in mind, low-income
housing has been explicitly linked with the economic development of the city.
The housing development will be associated with new investment in the Colon
Free Zone which will be financed entirely by private banks.



- 9 -
29.       It is recognized that to reverse the secular decline of the area and
to broaden its economic base, a wider range of urban services must be provided.
The educational system, in particular post secondary institutions, must play
an important role in the provision of skilled workers. Higher household
incomes mean increased demand for public transport and recreational facilities,
particularly among low-income groups. In addition, the growth of container
traffic to the Free Zone makes it important that the Port of Cristobal be
better equipped for handling containers. Correspondingly, the increased
volume of traffic generated as a result of the industrial activity will place
added congestion on the roads. The project therefore includes a number of
components which are designed to improve the efficiency of the urban and
regional economy.
Project Description
30.       Since  1978, the Bank has assisted the Government in defining a
program, which has formed the basis of the proposed project. Specific objec-
tives of the program are: (i) to revitalize Colon as an economic growth
center; (ii) to alleviate poverty through investments which emphasize employ-
ment generation; (iii) to improve the provision of urban services and urban
management; (iv) to develop a prototype urban development programming and
management capability for eventual use at the level of the Metropolitan
Region; and (v) to identify urban policy issues that cannot now be adequately
addressed at the local or subregional level and prepare further investments
related to the project. The project, which has been designed to avoid
adversely affecting the environment, is divided into five major sub-projects
as follows:
(1)  Urban Employment:  extension by 35 ha of the Colon Free Zone's
existing 57 ha duty-free commercial area, and first phase (35 ha)
of a general purpose industrial estate catering primarily to
assembly operations and light manufacturing.
(2)  Urban Renewal:  construction of a retail mall and a bus terminal.
(3)  Housing and Social Services:  urbanization of a 118-ha site (Puerto
Escondido) and construction of 4,025 dwelling units (about 300 in
downtown Colon and the remainder in Puerto Escondido); construction
of community facilities in Puerto Escondido, and provision of home
improvement credits.
(4)  Regional Infrastructure:  improvements to the Port of Cristobal;
improvements to the Colon access section of the Panama City-Colon
Highway; establishment of a regional education center and construc-
tion of recreational facilities to serve Colon.
(5)  Technical Assistance:  consulting and extension services related
to the regional development program, project monitoring and evalua-
tion, urban transport operations management, port and railway
development and professional development.
31.       The project would be implemented during 1980-83.  The Bank loan
would finance the low income housing and community facilities, the bus
terminal, all regional infrastructure except the port improvements and a



- 10 -
small portion of the recreational facilities, and the technical assistance.
Private banks would finance primarily the urban employment sub-project and
the related retail mall and port improvements.
Urban Employment
32.       The urban employment sub-project would be carried out by the Colon
Free Zone. The sub-project is designed to create about 8,000 new jobs, a
large portion of which are expected to be filled by workers from low-income
groups in Colon. It consists of the development of two separate parcels of
land in the expansion area across Manzanillo Bay from the existing Free Zone
(one as an extension of the Free Zone's duty-free commercial area and the
second as a general-purpose industrial estate catering primarily to assembly
operations and manufacturing). The expansion of the commercial area would
satisfy existing demand for these facilities, while the construction of the
industrial area is designed to satisfy the demand identified in a feasibility
study carried out by independent consultants.
33.       The commercial area, which has an estimated cost of US$30 million,
is an extension of the 13-ha site currently being developed, and would be
occupied primarily by duty-free warehouse and commercial operations, similar
to those already established in the Free Zone. About 3,000 additional full-
time jobs would be created.
34.       The industrial area, which has an estimated cost of US$26 million,
would fully urbanize 35 ha of the 250 ha earmarked for assembly and manufac-
turing operations, while an additional 58 ha will be levelled and 70 ha
cleared of vegetation. Land development and building construction would be
carried out in phases during the project implementation period. Free Zone
estimates, which are based on a feasibility study prepared by an independent
consulting firm, show that this implementation schedule would provide facilities
in accordance with effective demand. Of the 35 ha that would be fully urbanized,
about 5 ha would be occupied by buildings constructed by the Free Zone for
rental, and the remaining 30 ha would be leased as developed land to firms
constructing their own buildings. About 5,000 additional full-time jobs are
expected to be created. The Free Zone would prepare, by June 30, 1981, a
proposal for sewage collection and disposal in the Free Zone development in
consultation with the National Water Supply and Sewerage Institute. The
proposal would be approved by the Bank prior to carrying out the works
(Section 2.05 of the Free Zone/APN Project Agreement).
Urban Renewal
35.       Because of several years of neglect and inner city decay, Colon has
lost much of the visual charm that had characterized the city until the mid-
1950's. A major aim of the project, therefore, is to stop the rapid physical
deterioration of the central city, to create a favorable investment climate
for private sector entrepreneurs to undertake complementary urban renewal
projects, and to develop an attractive environment for tourists. In order to
accelerate the process of increasing additional commercial activity in the city
center, the Free Zone will transfer to the new retail mall a portion of its
retail duty-free sales from the existing complex. In addition, a bus terminal
would be constructed. The sub-project will involve investments of US$6.5 million.
It is estimated that about 350 additional full-time jobs will be created.



- 11 -
Housing and Social Services
36.       The low-income housing and community facilities sub-projects would
be carried out by Caja de Ahorros. The Ministry of Housing (MIVI) would
design the works, carry out the procurement and supervise construction on
behalf of Caja under contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 2.03(b) of the Caja Project Agreement). The sub-project aims to
increase the low-income housing stock in Colon within a reasonable distance
to employment. MIVI, which has considerable experience in building low-
income housing, will prepare the details of the process for selecting potential
beneficiaries. The selection criteria would be agreed with the Bank (Section
3.03 of the Loan Agreement). The requirements to qualify for a loan would be
established by Caja using their standard operating procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. These procedures set a maximum limit for mortgage
payments of 25 percent of the family's average monthly income from all sources.
In designing the shelter options which would be available in the low-income
housing site, every effort has been made to avoid income stratification, and
to encourage families with different incomes to live in the same zone.
Therefore, Caja has agreed that at least 60 percent of the shelter options
would be for families whose income falls in the bottom four deciles of the
income distribution of the Metropolitan Region. The remaining 40 percent, at
the discretion of the Caja, would be for families whose income falls between
the fourth and sixth deciles (Section 2.04 of the Caja Project Agreement).
37.       Development in Puerto Escondido would take place in three phases of
31 ha, 46 ha, and 41 ha, respectively, over four years, making a total of
118 ha during the implementation period. Gross densities would be in the
order of 170 people per hectare. This is acceptable given the topography and
environmental conditions of the area. The housing development in downtown
Colon would be carried out over two years. The analyses of the Puerto Escondido
and downtown developments have been based on a general site plan. The details
of the first phase of the Puerto Escondido development have already been agreed
with the Bank. However, no disbursements would be made for phases two and
three of the Puerto Escondido development until the Bank has been furnished
with a detailed plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for each of these phases.
Similarly, a satisfactory detailed site plan would be furnished for the housing
development in downtown Colon before disbursements are made for that site
(Schedule 1, paras. 3(b) and 3(e) of the Loan Agreement). The detailed plan
would include a description of the works to be performed, a schedule of imple-
mentation, housing options and estimated costs. The site for the 118-ha urbani-
zation is located on land which reverted to Panama under the Canal Treaty.  A
condition of disbursement for this component would be that the Government takes
all action necessary to make available 118 ha, for use in the Puerto Escondido
development.  Land would also have to be made available in downtown Colon prior
to disbursements for that housing site (Schedule 1, paras. 3(d) and 3(e) of the
Loan Agreement). Caja would prepare, by June 30, 1981, a proposal for sewage
collection and disposal in the Puerto Escondido development in consultation with
the National Water Supply and Sewerage Institute. The proposal would be approved
by the Bank prior to carrying out the works (Section 2.08 of the Caja Project
Agreement).
Regional Infrastructure
38.       The sub-project is aimed at improving the efficiency of the regional
economy. Its estimated cost is US$25 million and includes the following spe-
cific components: (a) an extension of the existing container handling



- 12 -
facility of the Port of Cristobal; (b) widening and strengthening the 9 km Colon
access of the Panama City-Colon Highway between Colon and its suburb of Cativa;
(c) establishment of a regional education center to consolidate the activities
of three existing education institutions, and to provide training facilities for
the Free Zone in a single complex; and (d) provision of recreational facilities
to serve Colon consisting of the construction of a park to be located on the
shore of Lake Gatun, and the restoration of a historical tourist attraction
located in the vicinity of Gatan Lock, both near the city. The Government
would make the appropriate site available before disbursements are made for the
regional education center (Schedule 1, para. 3(f) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Organization and Administration
39.       The Government has established a High Level Commission to coordinate
the project. The Commission operates much along the lines of regional develop-
ment corporations in other countries, and is empowered to determine the priori-
ties of Colon and to channel resources accordingly. The Commission is headed
by an Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Vice-President of the
Republic, and consists of a Managing Director and of the Ministers of Planning,
of the Presidency, and of Housing, the Governor of the Province of Colon, and
the Managers of Caja and the Colon Free Zone. The Government has agreed
that the Commission would be retained with its present powers during the
implementation period of the project (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement).
40.       Each of the implementing agencies has had previous experience with
similar programs in the past, and would be responsible for all of the required
programming and budgeting of their respective components, including the design,
bidding, procurement, construction, as well as the project-related co-ordination
with other participating agencies. Each agency would carry out with its own
staff the detailed engineering of its component except for the Free Zone which
would hire consultants to carry out the detailed engineering. Each of the
agencies would provide the necessary personnel for staffing the facilities once
they have been constructed. The High Level Commission, in coordination with the
Free Zone, which will be the Borrower for the co-financed portion of the project,
and with Caja, which will oversee the sites and services component, will coor-
dinate the work of the different agencies involved, an arrangement which is
satisfactory to the Bank. The implementing agencies are as follows:
Components                              Implementing Agency
1.  Commercial and Industrial Estates         Colon Free Zone (CFZ)
2.  Retail Mall                               Colon Free Zone (CFZ)
3.  Port Improvements                         National Port Authority (APN)
4.  Bus Terminal                              Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
5.  Low-Income Housing                        Caja de Ahorros (CAJA)
6.  Community Facilities                      Caja de Ahorros (CAJA)
7.  Home Improvement Credits                  Caja de Ahorros (CAJA)
8.  Regional Education Center                 Ministry of Education (MOE)
9.  Road Improvements                         Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
10. Recreation Facilities:
(a)  Fort San Lorenzo                      National Cultural Institute (INAC)
(b)  Lake Gatun Park                       Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
11.  Technical Assistance                      Ministry of Planning (MIPPE)



- 13 -
41.       In addition to the requirements imposed on each agency and specified
in para. 40, the National Port Authority has agreed that after completion
but: before operation of the improvements in the container facilities included
in the project, it will implement a revision of its tariff structure for
container activities at Cristobal so as to ensure that the revenues earned
yield a satisfactory economic rate of return for such activities (Section 4.04
of the Free Zone/APN Project Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
42.       The total cost of the project is US$133 million, including contin-
gencies, of which US$63 million, or 47 percent is estimated to represent for-
eign exchange costs. A detailed hreakdown of costs is given at the beginning
of this report. The Bank loan would finance items 4 through 11 listed in
para. 40 except item 10 (a). The Government would be the Borrower for the
proposed Bank loan. The private banks would finance items 1 through 3 (US$62
million) as well as those portions of items 4, 6 and 8 through 11 not covered
by the Bank loan (US$8 Million). The Borrower for the private bank loans would
be the Colon Free Zone. The financing plan would be as follows:
% of
US$ Million    Project Cost
Colon Free Zone                         8.1               6
Caja de Ahorros                        19.2               14
The National Port Authority             1.0                1
World Bank                             35.0               26
Private Banks                          70.0              53
133.3             100
43.       The financing arrangements include a proposed co-financing which
will be arranged by the Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited (IBJ).  This would
be the first Bank-financed urban project in Latin America involving co-financing
with commercial banks. IBJ has given Panama and the Free Zone, which will
be the Borrower for the proposed commercial loans, a commitment to arrange a
series of loans totaling US$70 million during the implementation of the
project, and has indicated that it will exercise its best efforts to obtain
overall terms which would result in a final maturity of approximately 15 years.
The first loan, for US$15 million, would have a term of eight years including
five years grace and interest at LIBOR plus 1.25 percent. The maturity
structure of the initial loan is less favorable than the desired overall terms
because of prevailing conditions in financial markets. However, IBJ expects
to compensate for the maturity shortfall on the US$15 million loan in its
subsequent loans which will total US$55 million. The Government believes, and
we concur, that these arrangements are better than could have been obtained in
the absence of co-financing, under current conditions. In order to ensure
that the terms of the future co-financing loans are appropriate for the
project, the Free Zone will consult and seek approval of the Bank prior to
contracting such loans (Section 2.06 of the Free Zone/APN Project Agreement).
The Bank would enter into the standard Memorandum Agreement for co-financing
loans with IBJ covering billing procedures consultation, and exchange of
information regarding the project. A condition of effectiveness of the



- 14 -
proposed Bank loan would be that the Free Zone has obtained the IBJ initial
loan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and that the Bank be
notified by IBJ that all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement
under the IBJ initial loan agreement have been fulfilled (Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement).
44.       It is estimated that about 77 percent of total project costs would
be recovered from the ultimate beneficiaries. investments in community facili-
ties and certain items of urban infrastructure, which total US$14.3 million in
the case of the housing and social services sub-project, together with certain
investments in regional infrastructure and technical assistance totalling
US$16.5 million, account for the remaining 23 percent. They are viewed as
benefitting the Colon Sub-Region as a whole, and are treated as a transfer
of resources not recovered from the project beneficiaries.
45.       The estimated cost of the 371 man-months of consulting services
to be provided under the project is US$3 million, or an average gross
cost per man-month of approximately US$8,000 (excluding price escalation and
contingencies). This average cost is considered reasonable given the type
of expertise required.
Lending Arrangements
46.       The sector agencies shown in para. 40 will be responsible for the
implementation of the bus terminal, regional education center, road improve-
ments, recreation facilities, and technical assistance components. The
Government will on-lend to the Caja that portion of the loan to be used for
the housing and social services components on the same terms as those on which
the Bank lends to it. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk of
the Bank loan, as is the case in all operations involving credit in Panama.
The Caja will be indemnified by the Government against defaults on mortgages
in those cases where normal recovery procedures prove not to be feasible.
This is consistent with private banking practice for portfolios of this type.
Prior to disbursement for the housing and social services component, the
Government and Caja would enter into suitable contractual arrangements
(Schedule 1, para. 3(c) of the Loan Agreement).
47.       Loans for the purchase of dwelling units would bear interest at 12 per-
cent per annum over 17 years, which is consistent with Caja's average lending
rate for houses of this kind, and which provides an adequate spread over its
average cost of capital. The interest rate charged would be reviewed at least
every five years. Caja would finance up to 100 percent of the value of
the houses. Caja would reserve the right to repurchase any house within the
first five years of occupancy should the existing owner decide to sell. The
purpose of this policy is to minimize the pressure on land speculation.
Changes in lending criteria would be agreed with the Bank. The Caja is the
largest single mortgage institution in the country and the rates charged for
this project are consistent with rates charged for similar types of lending.
Wholesale prices in Panama rose by 7.1 percent in 1977; by 5.5 percent in
1978; by about 18 percent in 1979 and are projected to increase by 14 percent
in 1980 and 1981 and to decline to about 10 percent in subsequent years.
Under these assumptions, the proposed interest rates would be positive.



- 15 -
Urbanization costs relating to utility infrastructure, streets and roads as
well as a rental charge for land would be collected in the form of a tax over
25 years at an interest rate of not less than 12 percent (Section 4.04 of the
Loan Agreement).
Caja de Ahorros
48.       Established in 1934, Caja is the oldest savings and loan association
in the country. It is governed by a five-member Board of Directors appointed
by the President of the Republic. Caja has broad powers for offering a full
range of banking services. In addition to its central office in Panama
City, which is responsible for its policy formulation, project design, and
construction supervision, the Caja operates 25 regional offices located
throughout Panama, four of which are located in Colon. Caja is audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
49.        Caja can finance mortgages of up to 80 percent of the assessed
value for commercial properties and up to 100 percent for residential proper-
ties. Mortgage rates for residential properties are divided into three
categories: (i) loans of US$10,000 and under pay interest at 12 percent per
annum plus a fee of 1 percent per annum (usually waived for lower income
groups); (ii) loans from US$10,001 to US$16,000 pay interest at 12 percent per
annum plus a fee of 1 to 2 percent per annum; and (iii) loans of more than
US$16,000 pay 12 percent plus a fee of 3 to 4 percent per annum. Because of
its efficient management, the portfolio of Caja shows only 1.3 percent arrears
of 9Q days or more.
50.        The financing requirements of Caja during the 1980-83 period are
estimated at US$256 million. This amount includes an outlay of US$44 million
for the proposed project, other lending operations of US$194 million, liquidity
requirements of US$11 million and other investments of US$7 million. About
55 percent of requirements would be financed from repayments of principal,
31 percent from depositors' savings and 14 percent from other borrowings. The
proposed Bank-financed component is quite small relative to Caja's overall
investment program, representing about 17 percent of total expenditures during
the 1980-83 period. Caja's overall operating performance is expected to be
strong throughout the period. The average cost of capital to Caja is nine
percent. Caja has indicated that it intends to maintain its policy of obtain-
ing, on the average, a minimum interest rate spread of about two percent over
the cost of its capital. This spread is considered adequate.
The Colon Free Zone
51.        The Free Zone is governed by a ten-member Board of Directors.  One
member is appointed by the Ministry of the Presidency and another by the Ministry
of Finance; six members, including the manager, are drawn from the business
community. The Minister of Commerce is the Chairman of the Board. Although
the Free Zone was established in 1948, it was not until 1952 that it opened
for business, with 10 companies on six hectares of land. By the end of 1979,
the Free Zone, which generates most of its business through real estate rentals,
had fully developed 44 hectares of land, 70 percent of which was covered by
warehouse-type buildings and display offices. The facilities were fully
contracted to 350 companies with almost 250 others using the service of
Free Zone based redistribution agents. The Free Zone now employs just over
5,000 workers.



- 16 -
52.       The Free Zone had US$22 million in total assets as of December 31,
1979. Of its total resources, about 77 percent or US$17 million was in the
form of paid-in capital and retained earnings, 18 percent or US$4 million was
in the form of long-term debt, and four percent or US$1 million was in the
form of short-term debt. In the past, investments in land and buildings were
mostly financed on a cash basis from net earnings. This accounts for the
relatively small amount of long-term debt outstanding. As shown by the
current ratio, which has averaged 2:1 over the last three years, the
liquidity position of the Free Zone is quite strong. The Free Zone is
audited annually by the Office of the Controller General.
53.       The estimated capital requirements of the Free Zone during the
1980-83 period total US$93.2 million. This amount includes the proposed
industrial estate sub-project of US$20.8 million, the commercial estate
sub-project of US$23.4 million, the retail mall sub-project at US$4.6 million,
interest during construction of US$11.8 million, the on-lending of US$ 9.8 mil-
lion to APN for the port improvement sub-project and USS7.7 million to the
government, completion of works already in progress of US$8.6 million,
other investments of US$4.3 million, and an increase in working capital of
US$2.2 million. About 13 percent of the requirements would be financed from
internally generated funds, two percent from prepaid rents, 10 percent from
existing commercial loans, and 75 percent from the proposed co-financing
operation. To protect the financing plan and the Free Zone's future financial
viability, the Free Zone has agreed that during the period of implementation
of the proposed project, it would (a) set tariffs not later than September 30,
1980 and thereafter which would be sufficient to: (i) generate revenues at
least equal to the sum of all operating expenses (excluding depreciation and
other non-cash operating charges), debt service requirements, taxes or payments
in lieu of taxes, cash dividends and other distributions of retained earnings,
and capital expenditures not covered by long-term debt; (ii) yield a reasonable
return in real terms on the value of the facilities included in the project
taking into account the value of the land on which such facilities have been
built and the level of charges in effect in other free zone of the Caribbean
area; and (b) not undertake investments which would result in annual expendi-
tures in excess of US$1 million over the proposed project and other ongoing
projects unless agreed with the Bank (Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the Free
Zone/APN Project Agreement).
Procurement
54.       Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials in excess
of US$250,000 would be awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts under US$250,000, open also
to foreign contractors, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. For bid evaluation purposes,
under international competitive bidding, a margin of preference of 15 percent
or the value of the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, would be
allowed for materials and equipment manufactured in Panama.
55.       Contracts for civil works above US$2 million (except for the housing
and social services sub-project for which the figure would be US$1 million)
would be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Civil works contracts valued at US$2 million and under,



- 17 -
(US$ I million and under in the case of the housing and social services sub-
project) would be awarded through local competitive bidding open also to
foreign contractors, using local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Because of the large number of competent local contractors, it is expected
that all such contracts would be won by local bidders.
56.       MIVI has traditionally used direct contracting which appears to have
kept construction costs low. MIVI, on behalf of Caja, would initially call
for competitive bids for the housing and social services components. However,
in the event that MIVI were to demonstrate, to the Bank's satisfaction, that
competitive bidding was resulting in higher costs, the Bank would agree to the
use of direct contracting (Schedule, para. C.2 of the Caja Project Agreement).
The execution of earthworks by the Ministry of Housing's own forces would be
recognized as acceptable by the Bank for those works for which retroactive
financing is proposed. This procedure was agreed to because of the urgency of
starting civil works in the 1979/80 dry season.
Disbursement
57.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a four-year period
as follows:
(a) 60 percent of total expenditures for all materials, equipment and
civil works; and
(b) 60 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance.
58.       Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$1.8 million is
recommended for expenditures incurred from October 1, 1979 for (a) engineering
consultants, (b) earthmovement and grading, (c) technical assistance. Con-
struction works were begun early in order to take advantage of the 1979/80 dry
season.
Economic Justification
59.       The economic rate of return for those sub-projects that have readily
quantifiable benefits and which represent 87 percent of total project costs
is 21 percent. The rate of return for the industrial estate (16 percent of
project costs) is 30 percent; for the commercial estate (19 percent of
project costs) is 14 percent; for port improvements (nine percent of project
costs) is 14 percent; for road improvements (eight percent of project costs)
is 40 percent; for the retail mall (four percent of project costs) is 23 percent;
for the low income housing (30 percent of project costs) is 16 percent; and
for the bus terminal (one percent of project costs) is 49 percent. A sensi-
tivity analysis for the quantifiable components indicates that the rate of
return would be 17.4 percent with a 15 percent decrease in benefits and
16 percent with a 25 percent increase in costs.
60.       Costs of home improvement credits, the regional education center,
recreational facilities, schools, clinics, parks, other community facilities,
and technical assistance (which represent about 7 percent of the total cost
of the project) have been excluded from the quantitative analysis because of
the difficulty of quantifying their benefits. The facilities will ensure



- 18 -
that the new community of Puerto Escondido has access to the same relatively
high levels of health and education services already available in other parts
of Colon. They will be provided on a least-cost basis taking into account
minimum national urban standards. The benefits from the home improvement
loans will depend on how the housing stock is upgraded and the rate at which
these loans are utilized. The regional educational center is important to the
proposed integrated Colon urban development project because it serves to up-
grade the skills of the currently-unemployed population. The recreation park,
only six miles from the city center, is designed to preserve the ecological
environment of the lake and its surroundings, and be available for use by
residents of the area, particularly grade school children on school field
trips.
61.       During the construction phase (1980-1983), the project is expected
to generate 3,000 construction-related jobs. Upon full completion of the
project by 1983, it is estimated that 8,000 additional permanent jobs (full time)
are to be created in the Free Zone. Even with a low multiplier of 1.15 to 1.20,
this will represent a 40 percent increase in the number of employed in Colon.
It is expected that despite the potential for increased commuting and immigra-
tion, a substantial part of this expansion in employment will go to existing
residents of Colon, primarily the poor and unemployed. To facilitate the
employment of people from Colon the training center component would include
a job placement service.
62.       As mentioned above, about 4,000 low-income families would benefit
from the housing component and about 8,000 new jobs would be created by the
Free Zone expansion. Although it is expected that a large proportion of the
people obtaining jobs will also be beneficiaries of the housing development,
it is not possible to quantify the total number of beneficiaries of the
project inasmuch as some housing beneficiaries may not be new employees of
the Free Zone and, conversely, some of the families in the housing development
may have more than one member employed by the Free Zone expansion. At least
60 percent of the houses will benefit families whose income falls in the
bottom 40 percent of the income distribution scale. It is also expected that
more than half of the Free Zone jobs will go to existing residents of Colon,
primarily to the poor and unemployed.
Risks
63.       Panama has little experience in the planning of urban projects and in
the coordination of multi-sectoral activities. A High Level Commission was
recently established to coordinate the project, but the risk exists that it
will not be able to adequately control the various agencies involved. On the
other hand, the Government--at the highest levels--attributes priority to the
revitalization of Colon and this urgency has been transmitted to the implementing
agencies which actively participated in the preparation of the project and which,
therefore, now have a strong stake in the project's success. The Free Zone, until
now a purely commercial operation will, under the Project, diversify the scope
of its activities by undertaking industrial operations. There is some risk in
this diversification, but studies commissioned by the management of the Free
Zone indicate that there is considerable demand for the new type of operation.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Panama and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Caja de Ahorros, and
between the Bank and the Colon Free Zone and the Autoridad Portuaria Nacional,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special
conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. A special
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan would be that the Free
Zone has obtained the IBJ initial loan, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, and that the Bank has been notified by IBJ that all conditions
precedent to the initial disbursement of its loan have been met. The following
would be conditions of disbursement: (i) in respect of the housing and social
services sub-project, that the Government has entered into contractual arrange-
ments with Caja for the transfer of funds for the execution of this sub-project;
(ii) in respect of each of the phases of the Puerto Escondido development and
the site in downtown Colon, that the Government has made available the land
required and Caja has furnished to the Bank detailed site plans satisfactory
to the Bank; and (iii) in respect of the education center, that the required
site has been made available.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 30, 1980



- 20 -                                               Annex I
TIABLE 3A                                          Page  1  of  5
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SEEETL
PANAMA                     REFERENCE GROU?S (ADJUSTED AYQAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. QL )                                                  - 2OST RECENT ESTIMATE) IA
TOTAL             75.1                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      17.2                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        LNCOKE
1960   b    1970 a  ESTIMATE L       REGION /c  GROUP Id    GROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  370.0       790.0   1290.0            1124.4      1942.6      3075.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     448.0        683.0     885.0            943.1     1646.7       2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       1.1         1.4        1.8
URIAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 40.5         48.1       51.4            59.3        51.2        72.1
POPULATION PIOJICTIONS
POPULATION EN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        3. 0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          4.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS lEACGED                  2065
POPULATION DENS ITY
PE. SQ. EH.                        14.0        20.0      24.0             23.5       2U.2         33.5
P?. SQ. Tf. AGRICULTURAL LAND      76.0        89.0     105.0             80.5      100.5         91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.7        43.9      42.2             40.9       35.4         33.3
15-64 YRS.                         52.3         52.4      54.0             54.4       56.3         57.5
65 YRS. AND ASOVE                    4.0         3.7       3.8              3.9        5.1          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         2.9       2.7              2.4         1.7         2.1
UTR3AN                              4.3         4.4       4.1              3.7        3.0
CUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TsHOUSAND)      41.0        37.0      31.0             32.8       27.5         31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0         8.0        6.0             8.5  -    9.1           8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8         2.8        2.5             Z.4         1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..       15.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOW)    ..             ..      44.0             17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
LNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71100)           77.4        94.0      100.0            99.4      102.0         98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREfMENTS)                  102.0       116.0      103.0           107.0      120.8        112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PED DAY)           59.0        61.0      56.6             60.4       30.9         70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0        31.0       30.0            28.3       31.3
CHILI) (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      9.6         6.0        3.0             6.7        S.1          2.5
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    62.0         66.0       70.0            63.6       65.6         68.7
INPANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THUSAND)                             90.0        53.0      47.0             76.1       45.5         20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 -        7L0.      79.0             63.4       69.4         73.9
URBAN                                *-        98.0      93.0             79.5       85.1         94.6
aURAL                                ..        43.0      63.0             38.6       43.0         64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        79.7       17.8            58.8       70.1
URBAN                                ..        92.5      97.1             77.8       88.3 
RURAL                                ..        68.2      781.0            24.3       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2700.0      1550.0    1270.0           1841.9     1343.2        981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3460.0/f    1420.0    14U0.0            933.7       765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 3ED
MTOAL                             250.0       288.0     266.0            563.4      197.6        240.6
LRBAN                                         170.0     149.0            279.4      260.2
RURAL                                ..      1530.0    1240.0           1140.9     1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 3ED            *-        26.0       51.0            25.7        17.3        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
-OTAL                               4. 7        4.9 3       *              5.0        4. 7
!MAN                                4.4           .    .    ,              4.4        4.4
RURAL                               4.9          ..         ,,             5.3        5.1
AVERAGE NUMEIER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.4         2.3 Z       *              1.3         1.1
URsAN                               2.1         1.d         .,             1.3        1.2           *
.rURAL                              2.6         2.5         .              1.5         l.2
ACZESS W0 ELECTRICITY (PERCETr
OF DWELL:NGS)
TOTAL                              4/.0        52.0         ..            54.3        66.0
.RSAN                              82. 7       90.4         ..             0. 1      35.1
RURAL                              11.0        16.0         ..            14..Z



-21-                                            Annex I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  5
PAKAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAMA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AY[RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SA}1E       SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 |b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0       103.0     124.0            107.3      101.7        107.6
MALE                 98.0        107.0     126.0            109.1      110.0
FEMALE               94.0        100.0     122.0            107.4       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                29.0         40.0      53.0             40.5       51.2         39.7
MALE                 26.0         38.0      50.0            40.4        56.4
FEMALE               31.0         42.0      56.0            39.0        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 28.0          32.0      30.0             18.5       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0        27.0      30.0             37.1       27.1
SECONDARY                         23.0         21.0      23.0             17.9       25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        73.0        82.2/g    78.0             77.4       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         15.0        32.0      39.7             29.1       53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOIJSAND
POPULATION                        159.0       157.0     159.0            172.1      225.9       210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.0       107.0     111.0             67.9      102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        92.0      79.0             76.1       78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          4.8        ..              4.2        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       330.0       430.0     496.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  21.2         25.9      25.9             21.5       24.5        27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              50.9        41.6      30.4             30.2       28.9        23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.7        16.1      18.3             23.8       30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.1        34.0      33.8             30.9       33.8        40.1
MALE                                 51.1        49.4      49.1             47.3       51.3         55.7
FEMALE                               14.3        17.9      17.8             13.3       16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.7       1.4              1.5        1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        17.8         ..            23.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.7        ..             58.7       57.6.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         2.1        ..              2.9        3.4
1,OWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         9.5        ..              9.9       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     335.0            265.6
RURAL                               ..           ..     170.0            185.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     424.0            396.3      550.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     424.0            308.1      403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      21.0             35.2
RURAL                                ..          ..      30.0             46.6
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator snd the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on ava.ilability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Latin America;   /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e High Income (over $2500 per
capita, 1976);   7   196 ,;  /g  Age 10 years and over.
May, 1979



-22 -                                                           Annex I
Page .3 of 5
otesM    ltog  the data are d-a  foesue  generally judged the  sot esothordtativs and reliable, it should aso be noted that they mg oot be interne-
tinly ooprble boausie of the leek of staherdioed definitions and conpts used by diff.eret cOontries in collecting the data. The data  -r, scoetbelese
useful to describe orders of  .sgnitde, lindicate trends, so&d oheraterioe crain Jo,jo  differences betose   ~ncootrie..
7zThe       t g   s  uy r  so for eah indicator arepopuation-eiebted geoetrlo  ~sen,  -cludinig the entrese velus  of the inicaitor end the meet populated
oeuniiFiiliPriiTfrito lack of data, group areragee of all indIcators for Capital Surpios Oil  xporters and of indicators of Acre.. to Water ond Excrete
'ipsL,I osn,Icm  Distibtonen=ovry for other o-ruty groups .re puPo1atho-cei9tgtd ge,sftroc meaa  withoutoniisofteermean.ed
the sat poplated reentry.   ic   h  crrs   fountotree ess  th  idctrs dpend. on a-ilabilro   aaedI   ot  nform. ostice ous  be esercised
in relaiog enrages of one indicator to anothe.  These ."rge. ore met                  nuaf. an cprooiatioeoatf 'epete   valesch ncoparing the  -.alus of one
indicator at o time aseos the counitry eWndrference gr,pus.
atg-a.)km                                                                 dccesa tO Excrtta Dispsa  (perrent oj pouaion  -totl    bhen, sd rurL -
tl surfaceareas compis ing lend   -ezr   nd inland eaters.                      tother of people (otel    hn   n   ua]sre   yeceadsoe,a
w -iustssrvi -  Most resent satiaste of agrirnltura1 area osed temprarily                 percentages of their respective poUations. tooeta disposal may include
or peemenestly for crepe, Pstares, xarket and kiteha garden  or to                      the colletion end disposal, nith or citbout trsatet, of he- anrrsta
lie fso.                                                                                end nests-eater by sater-ho          esystesms or the use of pit prides sad siler
installations.
0:  M   CAP~ ~     tiP pe  capita. estimates at currxnt maerket prices,             Pnoultbca dpsr oW.yi.ien - Ppjzation dirtied by otter of practicig phyalioism
liIdul.Iaed%(by S soe-onvrion   thod an World Bank Attn  (1976-78 hasis);                 qualfe   frrom a os,ica  school at university level.
1960, 1970,-sd 197a dat.                                                                Poplation per Horsing Persona  Population divided by otter of practicing etels
SUIT CIWCt7 N P   CAPITA - Annual, cOonsumption of o-merreial songY                    sd teals grmute  -urnea, pratical nurses, *ed asoietmet morass.
(coal and lIgnite, peroleum, astral gas an  hydro-~ nuclear endgnu-   Peculation per hspitalt hod -itotal.  bhe d. and rural - P Aplation (total, urban
thePrLMmaleeticity)1 in           -t& kilogramhof coa   eqivl nt perapita  196o         P`d= -= rl)diided by thi epcieotr ofhopital beds' ailblah    in
1970,and 176 dt.. i k1lresaiIf oo1  qi --t pr teit.   960,public sod private general and speciali-ed hostpital end rehabilitation cesters.
1970, end 1976 data.                                               ~~~~~~~~~Hospitals are establishments permanetly staffed by at Iseat .se ptysician.
PORjTATION nAIL VITAL STATISTICS                                                            Establishmnts providing prictipally custodial care are act included. Rural
TntlPplais.tt-eimilos   As of July i; 1960, 1970, and                                     hospitals, howevr, include A.nth ed madical centers not pereastiy starred
1977 data                                                  -                            byapyi Ia (htbyamdical ass-tent, -crs,  ldeife, etc.) oich offer
!Prben P,clto  (preto  ttl      atio of urban to total Ppopltion;                         in-patbnt acr      -ai,ed proids a Ilmted range of medical facilitis..
different l deInItioso,     se  area   ma ffect comperhbility of data                 Admissions per Hospital led - Tocal number of adeissio.s to or discharges fro
sg=  conres   p     17,en   95daa                                                         opitals divided by the  ue  of bed,..
Population inra  2tW  - Current Population projections are based on                tWouIS
195ttlpoplaio  byaead :ec end tbsir sertality end fertility                  Aversedc   foueod(esn  prhueod                            oa.atn  and rurlf -
ratee. Projection paaaesfrnralt   as   opie  ftoeAhueod -onsstof a grop of  olo,iduloob hare living quater  end
levI.elsassuin  lieepecte-cy *i birth inceasing sith coutey's                        their main mel.A braroer or lodger may or may not be included In the
Per cpta incom    eni, end feeIls life expectancy stahiliciig  at                     hoseehoid for statIstical purposeS.
77.5 Yese.-   The parmters fcr fertil-Ity rate also have three is-1i               Averag  outer of persons pe,m- Ztta               b-hn  end rura  - Average oumober
ax-ting declne in fertility socrding to incee leve  end pest                         of persons Per roo  is s _uben, sndrua  occpied c etoa   slig
ram ly_pIss g perfornenn. tech countr-y lo then assignedi one of these            respectively.  Deelings coclude  on-pernanet nIrtutrs end unoccupied parts.
nine cocinationsi of sertailty and fetnility trends for prjcsAcce.ss to Electricty (prcent ofdelos     ttl  chn   Od rural-Ion
ventlo.a Id_ehlsog   cth electricity  inaco qotre as perretgce of
dSti=so  oupuItico- n   stationary popuIati-m then  is no groh                          tota, urban, end rura  d-elliogs repectively.
since the birth rats is equlL to the death rate, and ala the age
structure ream   constant. This is achieved only oftar fertility rates           EiXOATION
decline to the replwrmet leve  of unit set repruohrtion rate, obe                  AdJusted EDirIent Patios
each geneatio  of'   n  rePlaces itself roantly.  The stationsry popo-                Primacy ochol - tota,sleed female - iross total, sale and female enrol-
lation sins o   estmatd on the basis of the projected  hbarsctsritics                  aet of I al   ges at teprimary leela  pe-cotage  of respective primary
of the poplation in the year 2OOO, ned the rate of decline of fertility                 schonol-age populations; --realy tincludes children mged 6-il ear  hot
rate to replacemet level                                                                aduted for differen  lengths of primary eduatire; for cntimith
fear stationar  rpu"latio  to reached - The year ten  stetiom..rY poPulation              universal education   -lseot may enced 100 percet  --o nose pupilo
nic  eba  been reahe-                                                                   are below Or chore the offiCial school age.
Pmpulatbos Dens ity                                                                        -odenody scholi- total  saead          -nle - Compted- sIboc;oco         -ony
Per sq.A. -  id-pea  populntiom  per squar  kilomter (100 h-etres) of                    edctlo  reure       -ceo  four year  of epprorec pi-isoy :r.ocrotico:
total area                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~prorides gSnsral suctio... , or teaher traicing intrucciono  for popilo
per- so  n.  giulu        land - Computed as shove for sgrbcaltural land                  USuAllyIof 12 to 17 years of ee; correspondenecure.r  gocerlly
only,                                                                                   ecluded,
Pnotaltion use itrutore (percet) - Children (0-lb years), erkio9-.ag                      Vocational sao et(psr-st of oco-dary) -  osit.mnsiuIn   nlude
15  eas,ad 5rtrd    -u er  and  er   npercetage  of Hid-year                     technical, Loduotri.i, or other program  ohich operate indepeode-tly or a
pplto;16.0, i970. end 1977 data,                                                   dPepartmet  of recondac  institutioss.
Pnoplation Groatb Hate (pe-eet) - total - Annal co-rth rates of total mId-                Ne.il-teacher rat io    rmr,  an=.dl secoodur  - Total otld.otto e-rolc  is
year ppuLatoc.. for 1950-6, 1900--TI, endt 1970-77.                                       prieecy an- eodr   eesdvdd  by  ott rso  teachers in tie corre-
Ppltion ircoth Rote (.peret  - urban - Anouci druoth rates of orbs                       spondlag levels
popoatins  or 150-0,  96070, end IWO-fl                                        Adult literacy rate (pvrc-t( ) ieaesut    hct   edndoirt
-rde Mott  Pae  per. thousd) - Annual Li- hirthn per thousand of sod-                       aperoetoge of total sdult Ppopujtloo sgeo 15 Year  sod o..er.
yea  popultion  1960. 1970, end 1977 data,
C-d    a5       (5o5 send) - Annual deaths per thouand of Hid-year                  C0flRsuraIlH
ml lolc   1960197U,sn7d1977 data.                                                Passenger care (per th-ocnd pcoelt.tioc( - P-ocger car  coprise  utor o-rs
aoose ppr.durti.P" Rt-Acerage nomuer Of dsiightors 5  tantl  bear                         seating lose than eight pIrs...; eldec anbumece, hearses and ellitary
in her -orm-  rspr"doti- period if ohIII        ri.  cspresent age-                    vhce
specific fertility rstes; u-ualy fir-year enrages ~Odiog is 1960,                    Padlo R-te-rro  (eer thousno Po,ultion) . All typec of recivers for radi,
1970, and 1975.                                                                         broodrarts to geneal.uli1       e  thouand of population; e-cludes unlicense.d
FaiyPloio - h   toreror   Annual (throsende) - A-.u.I n..ter of                  recivers In countries end in yeara then  -egiot-tIr  oIf radii sets .as in
oresor  ofbirth_-cotrol device  under suopicee of catirnal folly                    effect; data for recti  yearn say rot be  -op-ral  niece nit coutries
p1500img prgren.                                                                        abolished licening 
Famly  looiog- ders(pecet o  erned rose) -iPercentage of married               TV Reciver  (per thouand Mpopsintlo) - TV rocei-r  for ir-icat to generl
rosen ofchl-harn   1g (15-o                   h.r)nb   s  birth-cotrol devices           public per thouand populatin    Icldes unlicense.d TV recivers incrnio
to nil maried nuns icnes age group.                                                     end in years 5  henrisrto   of TV sets  -a to effort -
POOP AND eJTRITTCS5                                               Keospap~~~~~~~~~I"f er f1-Ire tio- (per thoueo    -raio)-  ibu-  the overage t. lto
FOOD AND MMITTOR   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~of'dily general loet osseppe, teflon'  o   r poiodicol p1oli-aticn
,nder of Food yr`OocirprCet  (16-li I)    ode  of Per captatee d primaily t  recoding genera  o-e   it is conIdere.d to is  daily'
annual. prootc  of elifod -c-ditir.  Prdrto    ccu              isne td                 if it appe.arct leant four timesaser
feed sod  I on calender year basis. iomdities covr priotary gwd.i                     Cinem  Annual Attendance per Cpgitc ocr Pou  -  sued or tIe. cuber of tickets
(e..g.-siaen  i,,etead of sogar) .hich are edible sod  -otais Iutrients                sold daring the yer  ilubgam -oit  to s,,ve-inc icn.-  sod soils
(e.g - cffee and tea are occluded). -Aggregate produotion of each coutry                -nito.
isbaedon nestioe  ac      :,producer price., cights t-
Per c-pit. suel  of caoie  'peret It rocr:nn)-Cmuedfo                                t    'cRCt
enr     'fftvlo   . se  food soupelle  evilcole in ootry per caPita        To-tal lbr coco   thousands)                     -tonmcat   ci-c Persons, un-ludlg sre,e
per icy.  Av i.sis rupplirs coopi  domestIc prod-tloo, tap-rts less                   foroo and  -nepicyd lo,t -oldo    orcco   tdents,et. Itofot
erorts, sod ohoogI       I toook .  Ret oupplie  occlde animal feed, seu,             t   aroo atrietae  o  comparstble.
qusntit-e  soId is food proeosioag, sod losoe  io diot,ibotico. Require-.             rsJj- e    "       ecelofrCo- as poroe-oge of total le.rytoo-
_ee_tyoerevtttmtd toy PRO tomoed on posii        -ca   rd. for oveal                -ciotoe~otetoI   lbor foo   ofradr-, torvotrY  buntot   and
acivtyso  bati cnidein'g   evrretltemperatur, body  -egat.,                    fishing no p-r-etog  of total isbio   fre.-I
ego and  -c  diorbutin   of pouato,  n  a1osiog 10 p-roet for                       rtndsyl ~percet) - labor forc  ci nosing ,catufo,oointro
caste st rocoe.hol lood                                                               el-ovitt, stor and g-c to pe-ctag  of total loPr fre
Pery vpito sosply of -rci   xran  per da)-Protete c-t-t of p-c                       Par'ilcl o  PaePrco              Ittl   osl,ad ConnIe - P-vt:ciption or
ospit  ten  upplyof food pr day. Net opply of foo  is desloe.d an                -cticity vod!tes-, ar   opue   oto1tal   ae   o  fn          orfoc   spr
shove. Vqiensfor, all coutries et                    trine   y IJDA proide for t      osntage  of total, -oat  and femal  pops.i-to  of til Igeov-pootiveiy;
ouinm   nlos-r  of6 gc ea  of totni proteto Per day ann 20 gram  of                 1960, 1-970, end 1975 dto.  Thes  ar  tIl ~ p vati.toxti-e votes  -flectiog
sosIsdplepoen,o   bo   Igsseoudh   naIpoen                                           Igo-.e tc-t-u   of toe population, and 1og tier trond.  A fc estimates
Mes  otandard  ar  lose  than those of 715 groin  of total protein and               ore from sn~ioosl Icoroc
23 gros  of animal pro trio,. to sovrage for the  -cId, prcpoe.d by rAP            tor..o i.doxDpndenc  Ratio -  Ratio  f popultion under 15 sod  5 and ovr-
to  he  hir  iirldFood bccr.the todor `orc  in ago grop of 1-5-cl pear.
Per caiaootc   uply from anmlad poise-  P-.si. copply of ford
s-ir-d from  -,t-J. sod pu...e togospr bay.                                      IBO   0DThfli
C ild   ge  I--  Okrtality St  re  t OsLn) - Anul deaths Per thousad                Percentage of-dot  Icmibtoi-tba d ot) - ReceIved toy rioes
0 eg  grop--P     fer,  o ild-c  it thisIg  doP; for soot oe-0-                       I percet,richest PP p--ot, pooroc.t 20 per-sv, and provot u5 peroe..t
opoo,g cOo-ntt-  ostc drired fro  Lilfe ta Ie.r                                         of houelds.Ml.
HEALTH                                                                                  PIVEPT' 705G7T 3RCoTyt
lueiocao.   t Brhter)-      bvrge     -e of year  of lofe Ionv  Abocut  Povery locrlor     7100c  on-                                   t 2- -   c-    iccr.
Itton   ~   torto-  *03,170. ad177. into.                                        Absolute povery incom  -001 is 0tox  iore   rv  11-uI  tocr
trolo   't  'per  hohusund)  ,-.Anua  -train  of t-fant  -oe   n                       urtoalyseut   1cvucvsot.tofo    cinnts                                    o
yor of Peg  pe--sn   oe  ito                                                           fodablv.
Orovo  to Ife dterprooto   oniolo)-tta    ran   o   crl                            Os-eve rclotilv  PovetY  loc-  1c-ce I00 oc-trdo           --gra   sod coralt
oaf,        - ncopolyinldetros  sofsc. --t-r or un-trr  Pit                             perons.1 booms of toe country. l-oa  level Ic levid fo   the  rura  lo--I
uooctsmoted rater tori no clot from prot-cto bOrebolec., oprtngs,                     cito sdjsstnct for ligh-r coot of living toibs   reo
sod caiterypelt:  novovostseo  ofthro resjpect-ive ;p-putuo-   to          Psims   ocostdloOoI                     oe ty bo- leve    --vvvtt  -utan sod
aurban  Ire   tviol flo tcutlo or stndcs  Ictoed sot  -y  -1,M.                       r,rs.I -Percentof  otoc    ubnadrre    i   r    osl                      or
20  sc rs fro     douse n-Y vs oriderd us o-ug  tsthin r-assaiix.l
sovesoftstht house In rura  ors - -eso-bicle acros  -cld Imol
tint te tosed Ccor-mer.r of the tousebld 00 cOt  s.-  -s spends                                                          d....ic sod Socual laositor
spropcroice...   yes-  of vhs day' or  -oting tie fo`lys soccr ...d IIomi   na                                                         -irad Prjoioelpa--tnc
Aiguot197



Aunex I
-23 -                                     Page 4 of 5
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 (Prel.) (Current market prices)                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                                 1963-68           1968-73         197A-78
GNP at Market Prices              2,270.0       100.0                                   7.0              7.2             1.8
Gross Domestic Investment            649.1        28.6                                 10.5             11.1             0.1
Gross National Saving                432.7        19.1                                 14.3              7.1            10.2
Current Account Balance             -216.4       -9.5
Exports of Goods,  NFS               948.4       41.7                                   8.2              4.5             0.0
Imports of Goods,  NFS            1,078.5         47.5                                  6.5              7.5            -4.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                     Labor Force-/                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       7.                 Thou.                              TJS $           %
Agriculture                         330.4         17.1                158.7        31.0                 2082.0          55.1
Industry                            474.0        24.5                  83.5        16.3                 5677.0         150.3
Services                           1129.8        58.4                 261.1        51.0                 4327.0         114.5
Unallocated                                                             8.7         1.7                    -             -
Total/Average                _.                                                                _
1934.2      100.0                 512.0       100.0                 3778.0         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                              2/                                                    3/
General Government                                    Central Government
(B/. Mln.)             % of  GDP                     (B/. Mln.)             % of  CDP
1978     1979    1978    1979  1976-77               1978     1979    1978    1979   1976-77
Current Receipts                   -         -        -       -        -              405.4    474.2    18.0    17.4        16.4
Current Expenditures               _         _        -       _        -              450.4    541.5    19.8    19.8        16.5
Current Surplus                  -32.8    -38.8    -1.4    -1.4        0.1            -45.0    -67.3    -1.9    -2.5         0.1
Capital Expenditures        4    336.9    270.0    14.0       9.7    16.5             145.9    236.2       6.1      8.7       6.1
External Assistance (net) -    467.3    197.8    19.7          7.2    14.5            286.6    197.8    12.1        7.2      4.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
19'2         1973          1974           975          1976          1977        1978
(Million B/. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money -/                      440.4         506.4         596.4         622.1         732.3         791.0       894.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   16.3          6.1           71.4         219.0         313.0         3i5.C       204.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 703.5        965.1        1229.3         1279.2        1301.8        1369.7     1427.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               33.9         34.4          32.5          32.2          36.5          37,1        38.0
General Price Index (1975 = 100) (wholesale) 62.0            67.3          87.7         100,0         107.8         115.5       121.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (wholesale)                  8.5         10.5          30.2          14.0           7.8           7.2         5.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (change)          -4.0        -63.0        1070.0          207.0          42.9           0.6       -35.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector (change)          33.1        37.2           27.4           4.1           1.8           5.2         4.2
Note: In early 1979, the Government revised downwards slighTly its estimates of GDP in current prices. While the ratios on
this page reflect the new GDP estimates, the real increases used stem from the old services, which has not yet been
revised.
l/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sectcr of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly of
unemployed workers seeking their first job.  Excludes collective settlements and indigenous population.
2/ Excludes financial intermediaries. Includes Government owned enterprises.
3/ Cash basis.
4/ The net external borrowing for 1978 was about B/100 million higher than that used for de-icit financing in 1978; itwas
be used during 1979. The puilic sector deficit was 15.4 percent of GDP in 1978 and estimated at 11.1 in 1479.
5/ Demand, time and savings deposits only. The amount of US dollar- in circulation is unknown. Balboa issues are limited
to coins.



Annex I
_24                                Page 5 of 5
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975      1976       1977       1978                                            US $ Mln.       %
(Million US$)
Exports4of Goods, NFS-  851.5  827.7  908.7  9484          Bananas             3/              64.7       23.3
Exports of Goods, NFS -          851.5      827.7      908,7      948.4            Refined petroleum -                 80.8       29.2
Imports of Goods, NFS           -992.1    -976.8    -997.8    1078.5               Shrimp                              28.2      10.2
Resource Gap (Deficit= -)    -140.6    -149.1    - 89.1    -130.1                  Sugar                               29.4      10.6
Coffee                               5.2        1.9
fInterest Payments (net)          -20.8      -53.8      -61.4      -85.0            All other commodities               68.8      24.8
tot0her Factor Payments (net)       -          -          -          -
Net Transfers                     -5.0       -3.9       -2.3       -1.3
Balance on Current Account    -166.4    -206.8    -152.8    -216.4                    Total                           251.2      100.0
Balance
Direct Foreign Investment           7.6      10.8       10.9       11.0        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 106.7      332.1      343.2      954.4                                                       US $ Mln.
Amortization                  -27.5      -41.9      -86.9    -440.5
Subtotal                      +79.2      290.2      256.3      513.9           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              1909.8
Monetary Capital (net           +175.7      +30.7       +4.9    -167.5             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Unidentified private capital                                                       Total outstanding & Disbursed              1909.8
and net errors and              -96.1   -124.9    -119.3    -141.0                                          1/
omissions                                                                    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 -
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                       330.7      265.0      254.2      218.0           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                19.9
of which:  Petroleum       324.2     258.4      247.6      216.8            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Exports                       263.1      187.3      178.5      140.8           Total outstanding & Disbursed                19.9
of which:  Petroleum       263.1      187.3      178.5     140.8
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (12/31/1978) (Million US$)
RATE OF EXChANGE
IBRD
Through - 1978                                                                     Outstanding & Disbursed             106.8
US $ 1.00 = B/. 1.00                                                               Undisbursed                          93.2
1/.  1.00 = US$ 1.00                                                              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    200.0
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods, non-Factor Services and workers' renittances. Ratio for 1978 distorted
by large debt refinancing.
N Met foreign transactions of banking system.
/ Excludes sale of bunker oil.
4/ Includes earnings of Panamanians who work in the Canal Zone.
not available
not applicable
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of April 30, 1980)
US$ Million
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
Number        Year         Borrower              Purpose           Amount   Undisbursed
9 Loans    (1953-75)      Fully disbursed                          107.4           -
901-PAN       1973       BNP                 Livestock Credit       4.7          0.5
948-PAN       1974       IRHE                Power                 30.0          1.1
1280-PAN       1976       IDAAN               Water Supply
and Sewerage       12.0          9.1
1397-PAN       1977       BNP                 Livestock Credit       8.0          7.3
1398-PAN       1977       BNP                 Fisheries Credit       5.1         4.1
1470-PAN       1977       IRHE                Power                42.0         38.0
1565-PAN       1978       Republic            Highway
of Panama          Maintenance         12.0         11.9
1641-PAN       1978       COFINA              Industrial Credit   15.0           10.7
1672-PAN       1979       BNP                 Tropical Tree
Crop Dev.          19.0         17.6
1778-PAN       1980       IRHE                Power                23.0         23.0
Total (less cancellations)                          278.2        123.3
of which has been repaid                          30.4
Total now outstanding                               247.8
Amount Sold                         9.2
of which has been repaid          7.8              1.4
Total now held by Bank                              246.4
Total undisbursed                                                123.3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                       Loan    Equity   Total
1971        Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero               1.2      0.3       1.5
1978        Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                          2.4      1.4      3.8
1979        Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                              -      2.5       2.5
Total gross commitments                         3.6      4.2       7.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                         0.3      0.0      0.3
Total commitments now held by IFC               3.3      4.2       7.5
Total undisbursed                                -       0.1       0.1



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 901:       Livestock Development Project; US$4.7 Million Loan of
June 8, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project finances cattle enterprises, including land reform settlements
involved in dairying, beef breeding and fattening, and technical services.
Commitments lagged behind appraisal estimates, due mainly to initial delays
in organizing the project unit. The loan has now been fully committed and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1980. Preliminary analysis of
17 project farms indicates a favorable impact on technical coefficients of
production and income.
Loan 948:       Third Power Project; US$30 Million Loan of December 4, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is designed to integrate three of the four isolated major regional
electricity systems into a national grid. The project includes a 28 MW diesel
generating plant (San Francisco); 230 kV transmission lines and associated
substations; a load dispatch center; 115 kV subtransmission lines and substa-
tions, distribution, and consulting services. All major project items are
completed. A minor portion of the subtransmission lines and substations are
still under construction and will be completed by mid-1980. Delays in the
project are largely due to initial delays in engineering, bidding and procure-
ment. Project costs are currently estimated at 27 percent above appraisal
estimates in large part due to inflation.
Loan 1280:      Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$12 Million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project includes: improvement of the distribution facilities in the
low-income district of El Chorrillo in Panama City; construction of a water
treatment plant to serve Colon; improvement of the water treatment plant of
the City of Chorrera; provision of water to the town of Arraijan and the
fishing port of Vacamonte; purchase and installation of 30,000 water meters;
technical assistance to improve the organization of IDAAN and to install a
new commercial system. Project execution has been slower than estimated at
appraisal due in part to changes in the management of the Borrower. As a
result of the changes, there were delays in the selection of the consultants
to carry out the engineering of the Colon treatment plant and the rehabilita-
tion of the Chorrera treatment plant, the largest components of the project.
Contracts for the Colon and Chorrera components have been let and construction
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
has now started. The expected improvements in the commercial system have bee.a
started: asset valuation has been completed and the billing and collection
system will be changed substantially by the end of the year. The company is
financially sound, largely as a result of substantial increases in water rates
in 1976 and 1977.
Loan 1397:    Second Livestock Project; US$8 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date:  August 31, 1982.
Panama (BNP).
The project includes financing for small-and medium-scale milk producers;
to a state-owned farm (Programa Integral de Rio Hato--PRODEIRHA) for live-
stock breeding facilities, and technical assistance. The project started
slowly due in part to changes required in milk legislation and staff changes
in the project unit. Changes in the milk legislation involve a modification
in the method of determining the price paid to producers; the price of milk
is now determined by the building standards of the farms; the modified legis-
lation will require that producers be paid according to the quality of milk
produced. The legislation was approved last year and the Government is taking
steps to ensure its implementation. The Bank was informed late last year that
the Government has decided to modify the PRODEIRHA component by carrying it
out in five different research extension farms of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MIDA), a proposal which is acceptable. Loan commitments for the small and
medium scale milk producers, the most important component of the project, are
proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1398:      Second Fisheries Project; US$7.5 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project includes the construction of ten new purse seiners, the replace-
ment of five obsolete shrimp trawlers by five new boats, the rehabilitation
of ten wooden shrimp trawlers; the relocation of six shrimp processing
plants to the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte; the development of fresh
water fish and oyster farms, and technical assistance. The contract for
the purchase of the purse seiners has been awarded and the boats have been
delivered. The fresh water fish and oyster farming components are proceeding
satisfactorily. It was envisaged that the shrimp vessels would not be con-
structed unless the expected reduction in the shrimp fleet materialized
in 1979. The reduction on the fleet did not materialize and in addition
the purse seiners were procured below appraisal estimates. As a result,
$2.4 million of the loan were cancelled in February 1980.
Loan 1470:      Fourth Power (Fortuna Hydroelectric) Project:  US$42 million
of July 1, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project, cofinanced by the IDB (US$98 million) and suppliers, consists of
the construction of the 255 MW Fortuna Hydroelectric Project, and associated
transmission as well as technical assistance for organizational improvement
and a training program for the Borrower. The underground civil works, which



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
are being financed by the IDB, are underway.  The contract for the main
generating equipment, which is being financed with credits from suppliers,
has been awarded (Skanska, Sweden) as well as for the dam and diversion
works (Aoki, Japan), which are being financed by the Bank.  The project is
still expected to be commissioned by mid-1983 as estimated at appraisal.
The organization and training programs, being financed by the Bank, are
expected to be completed in 1981.
Loan 1565:      Highway Maintenance Project:  US$12 million loan of June 30,
1978; Closing Date:  March 31, 1983.
The project finances equipment, spare parts and technical assistance required
to implement a four-year road maintenance program, including improving equipment
management, which would strengthen the maintenance capability of the Ministry
of Public Works. The project started about one year behind schedule due to
delays in fielding a team of consultants, instead of a consulting firm, as a
consequence of a change in government policy. A group of six experts is now
working in Panama, and in two pilot provinces, with five more expected before
July 1, 1980. Procurement of maintenance equipment is uinderway and deliveries
should start in June 1980.
Loan 1641:      Development Banking Project:  US$15 million loan of January 23,
1979: Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project would help finance the estimated foreign exchange component of
subloans and equity investments for the acquisition of fixed assets and perm-
anent working capital by productive private and public sector enterprises in
the manufacturing, service and tourism sectors. The loan only became effective
on September 25, 1979 because of delays in obtaining Government guarantees
covering COFINA's exposure in several enterprises in excess of the limits
stipulated in COFINA's Policy Statement. The problem was resolved and subloan
commitments have caught up with appraisal estimates. However, progress has
been slow in recruiting qualified middle management staff to make needed
improvements in COFINA's project evaluation work.
Loan 1672: Tropical Tree Crop Development Project: US$19 million loan of
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project consists of (i) long-term financing for the renovation of 1,500 ha
of coffee; (ii) long-term financing for the planting of 600 ha of coffee and
the planting of an additional 1,900 ha of cocoa; (iii) the planting of 1,000 ha
of bananas on land worked by three agrarian reform groups; (iv) the planting
of 3,000 ha of oil palm principally on land worked by agrarian reform groups
and the construction the first stage of an oil processing plant; anl (') con-
sulting services to assist and train local coffee, cocoa and oil palm techni-
cians and to assist in operating an evaluation system to assess the impact of
the cocoa and coffee programs. The coffee and cocoa componen'ts are proceeding
satisfactorily. The banana and oil palm components have suffered delays
because of a change in management in one of the key implementing organizations,
the Banana Corporation of the Pacific.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1778:      Fifth Power Project:  US$23 million loan of January 30,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a program designed to rehabilitate and expand IRHE's
subtransmission and distribution systems in the 1980-83 period. The loan
was made effective on April 22, 1980. The project is proceeding on schedule.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PANAMA
COLON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1)  Project prepared by:      Implementing agencies with the
assistance of consultants
(2) Initial request for
Bank financing:           July 1978
(3) First Bank mission
to consider project:      October 1978
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  October 1979
(c)  Negotiations Completed:        May 8, 1980
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:   October 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III. Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
1.   the Government would, not later than one year after completion of
the project, update the value of real estate in downtown Colon
in order to levy the appropriate real estate taxes (para. 26);
2.   the Colon High Level Commission would be maintained during the
implementation period of the project (para. 39);
3.   the Port Authority would implement a revision of its tariff
structure for container facilities at Cristobal so as to ensure
that the revenues earned yield a satisfactory economic rate of
return for such activities after completion but before operation
of the improvements in the container facilities included in the
project (para. 41);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
4.   the Free Zone would (a) set tariffs not later than September 30,
1980 and thereafter which would be sufficient (i) to generate
revenues at least equal to: the sum of all operating expenses
(excluding depreciation and other non-cash operating charges);
debt service requirements; taxes or payments in lieu of taxes,
cash dividends and other distribution of retained earnings and all
capital expenditures not financed by long-term debt; (ii) yield a
reasonable return in real terms on the value of the facilities
included in the project; and (b) not undertake any investments which
would result in annual expenditures in excess of US$1 million over
the proposed project and other ongoing projects unless agreed with
the Bank (para. 53);
5.   MIVI would design tne works, carry out procurement and supervise
construction on behalf of Caja for the housing and social services
component under contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 36);
6.   the Government would recover urbanization costs through a tax
(para. 47);
7.   The Free Zone would obtain approval of the Bank prior to con-
tracting any of the loans required as part of the co-financing
arrangement (para. 43);
8.   the proposals for sewage collection and disposal works included in
the Free Zone and Puerto Escondido developments would be prepared in
consultation with the National Water Supply and Sewerage Institute
and would be approved by the Bank prior to undertaking any sewerage
investments in the areas (paras. 34 and 37);
9.   a detailed site plan of phases two and three of the Puerto Escondido
development, satisfactory to the Bank, would have to be furnished
to the Bank before disbursements are made for each of these phases.
Similarly, a satisfactory site plan would be furnished for the
dwelling units in downtown Colon before disbursements are made for
this site (para. 37);
10.   the Government would (a) enter into contractual arrangements with
Caja for the transfer of funds for the housing and social services
component; and (b) take all action necessary to make available
118 ha for use in the Puerto Escondido development, and for the
site in downtown Colon before disbursements are made for each of
these sites (paras. 37 and 46);
11.   the Government would make available the appropriate site for the
regional education center before disbursements are made for this
component (para. 38);
12.   a condition of effectiveness would be that the Free Zone has obtained
the IBJ initial loan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank and that the Bank has been notified that all conditions precedent
to the initial disbursement under the IBJ initial loan agreement
have been met (para. 43).






IBRD 14676
,MARCH 19H0
C'                                                                                                                                                     * W
PANAMA                                                           L                                         SLAS DE SAJN RLAS                 C A R  ~FA' A                  L 4 
' 'o(*ca dd To r            c COLON  URBAN                                                          M,no              COLOS
Ai oornrIeoff)                       DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADMNSTRATIVE AND PLANNNG DIVISK)NS                                                                                                                               A ilkoqod
rX fi j 41 w ] -D XW X \ u i ~~~~~~~~~~~~Escob O/J EAI9'9\JAS  N\zie -
COLON
.~~->-                      /                    ,''~~~~~' Y''~~~'  Aoroij6n HE -dNAMAwp
/  t I, } > 9a, ~t _S t -'Is ' o. EmperodNA *V                                                                      PANAMA        *      oA       NIAM                   A N       \ M A
0 ,    j-],,  s] jj   - - > }  >  X                              ,          s         /     J             Arsolv   ,;                                                >       .AN,  >A  >    \   r,wt
4SSenoOB OC A S   D E L  TORO                                                                      Copi              'obg.
'CAnOE    C oncep,cn   -uolfco -'-" -            - -. .                  035 FOLO      d /   c c C L E To qub\
i    L)  , 1 -Il RI L ,Ip                                                                                n C.                    SE L,-AS CopeS (*\ I el V 11  '     \       D   A   R\ I  E   N
yS    LOS   ThlOnCPI p          GUnIqAI  F_                          <    - *  To.    Coobe *    .,      \ Nat          050 eaS     I                                  .       SS C          iS /k  '>    '- 
6       3-i-                              0      - M Poos   *.SontoMoWio                         (FILE   OF  PA NA MA -  F
F -i-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~\
- OS+  Ia                                                                                                                                 -         Plane noSe LMotslo1 e-Amencon Hfi mr,gn hwoY  orrIh ne                         5'N;0
t:=S y;;   ER,~~~~~ 3 i         o       e      GurrumoS~~~~ ar/  TE R RER          LLa,o          Earabore_                       A     aoldso anpornrrsrpt\ >
'Ua    ii .     STADTJlES'S                                    .- Bn ,8hioHondo       ,                                S/F SSn ooninqo         __   InSSrofrrlSSflI oondorne ,a                                                Ar               J          I
(00F CS n?F'C                                              s                                            LEESLA d.ioo ,L-   loniodrgh < dous; borodoones                                    '*                              i                           .c* 
JAMAIQL                             C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!.C.
0 ' i> 4 HAITI D0N crJ l foA }~~~*S~                             - -.*            ,             sLOrO                                            r                                                   aoque r  IFrg;
S --%l uLi3+f tiDDUPAsCAEOAOOaON Sf4                                                                                                                                                                                                 H     _/]-if  lHSG 
p     A      C     /    F   ,        6               0     C      E    A                         ,      3 N  a  0pn                                                 El
'S  52'                                 CI                                        80~~~~~~IRE






IBRD 14678R
COLONM   BA  - DM    PROJECT ; N                                        FS'                       /                                             KM               j  9 
'     9 '  5  A Fp~tl  LCt    cott:r   -  '   DEVEIOPME9T     /, .,                                                                 f                ( - .   EV  PM,,
r~~~         E     E E E  i   Af  -; T Z - *-r N  A   OA   .                                                                                     i; v-J  N-    K. g 0 iX
kV A t    Tt i ,  T IV     g                                                                      ->                                         \
.'Af E, A, . ,FR6st  EE(0*rA                                __ r,-  (-,7s                                                             l       
-      Mr Of, "T7  AT        j rf' ,'. 49A                                                                                          (\                                       9      2_\
5 L ''SeL~E      T A' F D''kS E '4 g S A W     '  L ; ; ' J '<l .     E I A   3 G A T N            -  .-. '  . .\- }.   .= - \. .t 
.. AE IE            4 S                                   ' . ... .   S   C A Ctr'h0 ...................'i 2.                 /; .....  - --t,        
i df A* 052  C;\N      \ ZANZtO    K.       L-X7A \       \mf'                    EArC  FETyk   |                      7'   .                                              - z J /    e ;pi'         Ccttivo 
t ; \- \ - U  tA    9  \    @   ai '17i0<2-iE -fiY o s rz S  S  E)                           AGE T SV AGwTMFNT PLANTLB  [   >S                                    Pieolc N3ee
DE~ ; ~   ~       T                  NAN  -. -   :  \   A-  U-    &W . I,) *  , D '   F A F t pl   $ /   t     |                         \- '        _\
Aj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
7   et\2  -2       .       7  'ST\                           -                                                    I; -        7- \   XEo~- S ~ \     t 4~ .  
V~ ~      ~ ~~~c,                                                  -                                        -                                          AAC30 f- --- K t- 1        >5,-_,se  @,L' # X - 
a5itir /   C ~ p      \                           (8                            r              W   l                      __                        0       t    4 \ 0 ' -  -  X .   -<D r     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
sr~wZtrOom>aPes   S i \u/  \\]  l/t  /UI ; H  Y"
Crteibbos, *,_X 4 '12__ < n ~~ gx 9/ !0 !  (< f <, N X f+ ;y Q  : e -  irz S Cr 0ONE
!f;$Xt  ;=                        :                    a   ,';i; ;$  4, ';-_- $t ; _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S,74



