OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 1878 PAN
DOCUMENPS
Project Agreement
(Colon Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CAJA DE AHORROS
Dated                    7, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1878 PAN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUQIION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CAJA DE AHORROS (hereinafter called Caja).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Panama (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million
dollars ($35,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but on condition, inter alia, that Caja agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS Caja, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Caja shall carry out Part C of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b) Caja shall enter into the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement. Caja shall
duly perform all its obligations under such arrangements and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Caja shall not change or
fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) Caja undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or install-
ation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Caja to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Caja shall
cause all goods and services so financed to be used exclusively
for Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) procurement of the goods and civil works required for
Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the Project shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement; and
(b) for purposes of carrying out the procurement referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, and the design and supervision
of the civil works included therein, Caja shall employ the Minis-
try of Housing of the Borrower under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. Caja st-all allocate:
(a) at least 60% of the dwelling units included in Part C.1
of the Project to families which in terms of annual income are
among the poorest 40% of the population of Panama; and
(b) the remainder of such units, to families which in terms
of annual income are among the poorest 60% of the population'of
Panama but above Lhe percentage referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section; the percentages referred to above to be calculated
in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.05. (a) Caja shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) Caja: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parc C of the Project


﻿-3-
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan transferred to it by the Borrower and to disclose their
use in Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of said proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part C of the Pro-
ject, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from it, the expenditure of said proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of them.
(c) Caja shall cooperate fully with the Borrower in the
preparation of the report referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of the
Loan Agreement,
Section 2.06. Caja shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when aeeded all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Part C.1
and Part C.2 of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition,.evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to said Parts of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) Caja shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Part C of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan.
(b) Caja shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Caja of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.08. For purposes of carrying out the construc-
tion of the sewerage network included in Part C.1 of the Project,
Caja shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than
June 30, 1981, a proposal satisfactory to the Bank for sewage
collection and disposal prepared in consultation with the
Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Caja
Section 3.01. Caja shall at all times maintain its right to
carry on its operations and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 3.02. Caja shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan its investments and maintain its financial position, all in
accordance with appropriate bus.ness practices under the super-
vision of experienced and competent management.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Caja shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Caja shall maintain separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures in respect of Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the Project on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures.
(c) Caja shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures in respect of Part C.1 and
Part C.2 of the Project on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures.
Section 4.02. Caja shallv (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so a,idited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a


﻿-5-
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) and (c) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account in respect of Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the
Project on the basis of certificates of expenditures have been
used to make payments for goods received, or works or services
performed, and that such goods, works and services were eligible
for financing under this Agreement and were used in the carrying
out of said Parts of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of Caja and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Caja shall enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement
and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Caja thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify Caja thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required


﻿-6-
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reccastruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Caja:
Caja de Ahorros
Apartado 1740
Panama 1, Panama
Telex:
368-2417
Ahorrospg
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Caja may be taken or executed by
the General Manager or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and Caja shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿-7-
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
1vialL +Gd-e"a Panama, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CAJA DE AHORROS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
for Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the Project shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Caja shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. Caja shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿-9-
Panama may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Panama if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Panama equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order, to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 10 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $250,000
equivalent and contracts for civil works and for leasing equipment
required therefor estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equiv-
alent may be procured through competitive bidding on the basis of
local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Caja may authorize, under the terms referred to in Section
2.03 of this Agreement, the Ministry of Housing of the Borrower to
contract directly the civil works for Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the
Project and the leasing of equipment required therefor provided
that Caja has established to the satisfaction of the Bank that the
cost of contracts for such civil works and equipment let under the
procedures referred to in Part A and Part C.1 of this Schedule is
higher than it would have been had these contracts been contracted
directly.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
$250,000 equivalent or more and with respect to all contracts for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $800,000 equiva-
lent or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Caja shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Caja
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the


﻿- 11 -
bids received and such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform Caja and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
withou, the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account, in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by The preceding
paragraph, Caja shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account, in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform Caja and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, Caja shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform Caja and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the arch es of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruc4in and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of   p   , 1980
FOR SECRETARY


