LOAN NUMBER 1878 PAN
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
(Colon Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN, LIMITED
Dated
7 ,1980s


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1878 PAN
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
A.   Recitals
1.   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter
called the World Bank) has agreed to lend to the Republic of Panama (herein-
after called the "Borrower") an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$35,000,000 (hereinafter called the "World Bank Loan") on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement dated August 7, 1980 (hereinafter
called the "World Bank Loan Agreement"), to assist in financing an urban
development project in the city of Colon as more fully described in the
World Bank Loan Agreement (hereinafter called the "Project").
2. Certain private financial institutions including The Industrial
Bank of Japan, Limited (hereinafter called the "Private Lenders"), have
agreed to lend to Zona Libre de    Colon (hereinafter called "Zona Libre")
fifteen million United States dollars (US$15,000,000) (hereinafter called
the "Private Lenders Loans"),for the portion of the Project for which Zona
Libre is primarily responsible, on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement dated as of July 7, 1980, (hereinafter called the "Private
Lenders Loan Agreement"), such terms and conditions including inter alia a
guarantee given by the Borrower. The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited has
agreed to act as agent for the Private Lenders under the Private Lenders
Loan Agreement (hereinafter in such capacity called the "Agent").
3. The World Bank and the Agent, on its own behalf and on behalf of
the Private Lenders, hereby acknowledge that no party, in making its loan
to the Borrower or Zona Libre, has relied on information or judgments con-
cerning the Borrower, Zona Libre or the Project provided by or obtained
from another party and that each party has made its loan in the exercise
of its own independent judgment in accordance with its normal standards and
practices.
4. The World Bank and the Agent, on behalf of itself and the Private
Lenders, have deemed it convenient to make arrangements, with the consent
of the Borrower and Zona Libre, for the exchange of information and views
on matters of comon interest and for the provision by the World Bank of
certain services related to the servicing of the Private Lenders Loans.
It is, however, agreed that (i) neither the World Bank on the one hand,
nor the Agent and the Private Lenders on the other, will rely on the other
party to inquire into or verify the accuracy of any information provided
by the Borrower or Zona Libre or to review or evaluate the condition of
the Borrower, Zona Libre or the Project; and (ii) each party will take,
or refrain from taking, any decision or action under the World Bank Loan
Agreement or the Private Lenders Loan Agreement, as the case may be, on
the basis only of its own independent judgment, without reliance on the
information provided by, or expected from, the other party or the views
expressed by such party.


﻿-2-
- 2--
5.   Whenever used in this memorandum the terms defined in the World
Bank Loan Agreement and the Private Lenders Loan Agreement have the mean-
ings therein given to them.
B.   Service Payments of the Private Lenders Loan
6.   The World Bank and the Agent hereby agree to act as follows in
respect of payments to be made by Zona Libre to the Private Lenders pur-
suant to the Private Lenders Loan Agreement:
(a) The Agent may, not more than 90 days nor less than 60 days
before each Interest Payment Date (as defined in the Private Lenders Loan
Agreement), give notice to the World Bank of:
(i)  the date of such Interest Payment Date;
(ii)  the principal loan amount, if any, of the
Private Lenders Loans to be due and pay-
able on such Interest Payment Date; and
(iii) the amount of interest to be due and pay-
able under the Private Lenders Loan Agree-
ment on such Interest Payment Date.
Mb) Within 30 days of its receipt of any such notice, the World
Bank shall, on behalf of the Agent and on the basis only of the information
received on time from the Agent pursuant to the preceding paragraph, bill
Zona Libre for payment to the account referred to in paragraph (c) below
of the amounts of principal and interest to be paid by Zona Libre under
the Private Lenders Loan Agreement, with the same advance notice and using
substantially the same procedures ae it applies to similar billings for the
World Bank's own loans, and shall promptly send a copy of such bills to
the Agent.
(c) The Agent shall open and maintain on its books, at its New
York Agency at 1 Wall Street, New York, New York, or at such other agency
of the Agent as the Agent may, from time to time and in its sole discretion,
designate by notice telexed to the World Bank, and without cost to the World
Bank a special account in the Agent's name entitled "Zona Libre de Colon
Loan Account" (herein called the Special Account) to which there shall be
credited all amounts received by the Agent on account of payment of principal
and interest for which the World Bank will have billed Zona Libre pursuant
to the preceding paragraphs.
(d) The amounts irrevocably received by the Agent in the funds
and by the time and date specified in the Private Lenders Loan Agreement
for credit to the Special Account shall pro tanto satisfy Zona Libre's
obligations under the Private Lenders Loan Agreement.
(e) If any such payment of principal or interest from Zona Libre
is not received when due, the Agent shall give written notice thereof to
the World Bank and the Agent may give any notice contemplated in the Private
Lenders Loan Agreement to Zona Libre, and the World Bank shall, on behalf of
the Agent, promptly request Zona Libre, by cable or telex, that such payment


﻿-3-
be made. A copy of such cable or telex shall be promptly sent by the World
Bank to the Agent.
(f) The World Bank does not undertake any responsibility with
respect to the billing or payment of amounts owed by Zona Libre to the Agent
or the Private Lenders other than as specified above:
C.   Information and Consultation
7.   The World Bank and the Agent shall use their best efforts to make
available as soon as practicable to each other all information received
from the Borrower or Zona Libre that may be of ccon interest with respect
to the service, or the accomplishment of the purpose, of their respective
loans, except information received by the World Bank or the Agent or any
Private Lender which the recipient, in its sole judgment, considers to be
of a confidential nature; but neither the World Bank nor the Agent nor any
Private Lender shall have any liability to the other for the inaccuracy or
the incompleteness of any information made available by it in good faith or
for any failure in good faith to make available any information.
8.   The World Bank and the Agent, on its own behalf and on behalf of
the Private Lenders, shall:
(al to the extent practicable, afford each other a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views before taking any action which may lead to:
i) the suspension, cancellation, or acceleration
of their respective loans; or
(ii) a substantial amendment of the Project; and
(bJ at the request of either party, exchange views on any sub-
stantial and adverse change in the financial condition of the Borrower or
Zona Libre or in the progress or cost of the Project; provided, however,
that nothing in this paragraph 8 shall in any way limit or impair the in-
dependent right of decision and action of the World Bank or of the Agent
and the Private Lenders under the World Bank Loan Agreement or the Private
Lenders Loan Agreement, respectively.
D.   Miscellaneous
9.   The rights or obligations of the World Bank or the Agent under
this Memorandum shall "no be assigned ot otherwise transferred to any third
party vithout the wr n nt of the other party.
10.   The parties hereto agree that any notice or request given or
made pursuant to this Memorandum shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered to the following addresses:


﻿-4-
For the World Bank:                             For the Ment:
International Bank for                          The Industrial Bank
Reconstruction and Development                  of Japan, Limited
1818 B Street, N.W.                             1 Wall Street
Washington, D.C. 20433                          New York, N.Y. 10005
United States of America                        United States of America
Cable Address:                                  Cable Address:
INTRAFRAD
Washington, D.C.                                KOGYOGINKO, NEW YORK
Telex Addresses:                                Telex Address:
89699    (NU) (USA and Canada only)             128255 (WU) (USA and
64145   (U) (USA and Canada only)                Canada only)
420802 (ITT)
248423  (RCA)
This Memorandum will come into force and effect upon signature by the
World Bank and the Agent and acceptance by the Borrower and Zona Libre.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR                          THE INDUSTRIA  BANK OF
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT                 JAPAN, LIMITED
Date: 1  (      I Pd >   C                      Date: (/NV    d1v??
ACCEPTED:
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By:   / L -2A -)
Date: 01   OLj
ZONA LIBRE DE COLON
By:
Date:     Li


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  2      day of         198 ..
FOR SECRETARY


