'OFFI uLOAN NUMBER 1878 PAN
1)0CUMP
Project Agreement
(Colon Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZONA LIBRE DE COLON
and
AUTORIDAD PORTUARIA NACIONAL
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1878 PAN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    /        , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONST C ON AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ZONA LIBRE  E COLON (hereinafter called ZONA
LIBRE) and AUTORIDAD PORTUARIA NACIONAL (hereinafter called
APN).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Panama (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million
dollars ($35,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but on condition, inter alia, that ZONA LIBRE
and APN agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS ZONA LIBRE and APN, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ZONA LIBRE shall carry out Parts A and B.1 of
the Project and APN shall carry out Part D.1 of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the ZONA
LIBRE sub-project shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. (a) ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Parts of the Project for which it is
responsible, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) ZONA LIBRE and APN: (i) shall each maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Parts of the Project for which it is responsible (including
their cost and the benefits to be derived from them); (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in said Parts of the Project
and examine any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
each furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning said Parts of the
Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from them.
(c) ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each cooperate fully with the
Borrower in the preparation of the report referred to in Section
3.05 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
(d) ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine all of its plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.04. (a) ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each, at the
request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard
to the progress of the Parts of the Project for which it is
responsible, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each promptly inform the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of said Parts of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For purposes of carrying out the construc-
tion of the sewerage network included in Parts A.1 and A.2 of the
Project, ZONA LIBRE shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not
later than June 30, 1981, a proposal satisfactory to the Bank for
sewage collection and disposal prepared in consultation with the
Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. ZONA LIBRE shall: (a) take all measures
required on its part to obtain, in addition to the IBJ Initial
Loan and, as and when required for purposes of the Project,
financing in such amounts (currently estimated to be at least
$55,000,000 equivalent) as shall be needed for said purposes and
on such terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
and
(b) not later than March 1, 1981 and thereafter by March 1
in each year until the Project has been completed, furnish to the
Bank information on the estimated amounts of financing it requires
during the following two years and on the terms and conditions in
which such financing will be available to ZONA LIBRE.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ZONA LIBRE and APN
Section 3.01. ZONA LIBRE and APN shall at all time maintain
their right to carry on their operations and shall take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of their respective businesses.
Section 3.02. ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each at all times
manage its affairs, plan its investments and maintain its finan-
cial position, all in accordance with appropriate business prac-
tices under the supervision of experienced and competent manage-
ment.
Section 3.03. ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each at all times
operate and maintain its property, facilities and equipment and
from time to time make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with appropriate practices.
Section 3.04. ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ZONA LIBRE and APN shall each:


﻿-4-
(a) maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition; and
(') furnish to the Bank such information concerning such
records as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. ZONA LIBRE shall, not later than September 30,
1980, put into effect, and from time to time adjust, such charges
for the use of its facilities as shall be required:
(a) to generate each year revenues sufficient to cover ZONA
LIBRE's operating expenses (excluding depreciation and other
non-cash operating charges), working capital requirements, debt
service requirements, taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, cash
dividends and other distributions of retained earnings, and all
capital expenditures not financed by debt; and
(b) to yield a reasonable return in real terms on the value
of the facilities included in Parts A and B.1 of the Project,
taking into account the value of the land on which such facilities
have been built and the level of charges in effect in other free
zones of the Caribbean area for use of similar facilities.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all short-term and long-term debt
of ZONA LIBRE;
(b) the term "debt service requirements" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(c) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ZONA LIBRE shall not, before completion of Parts A and B.1 of
the Project, make any investment if in any given year the expendi-
tures for such investment, together with those for any other
investments already undertaken, exceed $1,000,000 equivalent. For


﻿-5-
the purposes of this Section the term "investment" shall be deemed
to exclude investments included in Parts A and B.1 of the Project
and works in progress on the date of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. APN shall, upon completion and prior to oper-
ation of the port facilities included in Part D.1 of the Project,
establish and thereafter maintain such tariffs for the use of such
facilities as shall be required to yield an economic rate of
return, satisfactory to the Bank, on the cost of such facilities;
such rate of return to be calculated in accordance with methods
satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of ZONA LIBRE and APN thereunder shall terminate on
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify ZONA LIBRE
and APN thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ZONA LIBRE:
Zona Libre de Col6n
Apartado 1118
Col6n
Republic of Panama
Telex:
328-9287
For APN:
Autoridad Portuaria Nacional
Apartado 8062
Panama 7,
Republic of Panama
Cable address:                      Telex:
PORTUARIA                           2765 PG
Panama
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of:
(a) ZONA LIBRE, may be taken or executed by the Gerente
General or such other person or persons as the Gerente General
shall designate in writing, and ZONA LIBRE shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person; and


﻿-7-
(b) APN, may be taken or executed by the Director General
or such person or persons as the Director General shall designate
in writing, and APN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 6e+nvv_T-AnaW1
Panama, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
1Aj
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the.Caribbean
ZONA LIBRE DE COLON
By
Authorized Representative
AUTORIDAD PORTUARIA NACIONAL
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
for the ZONA LIBRE sub-project shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ZONA LIBRE or APN, as the case
may be, shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. ZONA LIBRE or APN, as the case
may be, shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿-9-
Panama may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Panama if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Panama equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 10 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $250,000
equivalent and contracts for civil works estimated to cost less
than $2,000,000 equivalent may be procured through competitive
bidding on the basis of local procurement procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
$250,000 equivalent or more and with respect to all contracts for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $800,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ZONA LIBRE or APN, as the
case may be, shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ZONA
LIBRE or APN, as the case may be, shall, before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ZONA LIBRE or APN, as the case may be, and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.


﻿- 11 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, ZONA LIBRE or APN, as the case may be, shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly after its execution, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform ZONA LIBRE or APN, as the case
may be, and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, ZONA LIBRE or APN, as
the case may be, shall inform the Bank of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor.
The Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform
ZONA LIBRE or APN, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  7       day of   4   , 1980
FOR SECRETARY


