                                          Document of
                                    The World Bank
                                  OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                             Report No: 66440-RO




                                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                             ON A

                        PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                      OF
                  IRRIGATION REHABILITATION & REFORM PROJECT
                                   LOAN 47170

                                 BOARD APPROVAL DATE

                                         JULY 31, 2003


                                               TO

                                          ROMANIA


                                        February 8, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and Baltic Countries Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ANIF   National Administration of Land Reclamation, turned into National Agency
       of Land Reclamation
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
MARD   Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
PMU    Project Management Unit
WUO    Water Users’ Organizations (this is name used for water users’ associations
       in the Romanian legislation)




        Regional Vice President:     Philippe H. Le Houerou
               Country Director:     Peter C. Harrold
       Sector Manager / Director:    Dina Umali-Deininger / Laszlo Lovei
              Task Team Leader:      Gabriel Ionita




                                           2
          ROMANIA — IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND REFORM PROJECT
                          (P043881) - LOAN 47170-RO

                                      Restructuring Paper

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval to extend the closing date for Romania, Irrigation
Rehabilitation and Reform Project, Loan #47170, from March 31, 2012 until June 30, 2012.
The Borrower requested a second extension of the project closing date, by six months, through
the letter dated November 23, 2011. The project team proposes a three months extension as this
would be sufficient to complete the remaining project activities.
2.     Project implementation progressed well in the last year. Three of the four large works
contracts for rehabilitation of primary irrigation infrastructure considered under the project have
been finalized and substantial progress was recorded in implementation of the fourth contract (in
Terasa Viziru scheme). In addition, the last three large ICB goods contracts under the Support
Program for Water Users’ Organizations - WUOs (for irrigation equipment, water-meters, and
spare parts) have been procured and will be signed shortly (in January 2012). Commitment of
Loan funds reached US$73.3 million (92%) while US$68 million (85%) have been disbursed
until December 31, 2011. With the contracts under signing, commitment would reach 98% of
Loan amount. Sufficient funds have been allocated for project implementation in 2012.

3.      Progress was also made on institutional development with the new institutional reform of
the land reclamation sector to turn the National Administration of Land Reclamation (ANIF) into
the National Agency of Land Reclamation (ANIF), a public institution within the structure of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD).
4.      Progress towards meeting the project development objectives continued to improve. Most
of the area irrigated in 2011 (over 95% countrywide and 100% in the project area) is located on
lower terraces requiring water lift of less than 70 m, and most irrigation – 73% of the area - has
been applied to cash crops.
5.      The proposed extension is necessary to cover the risk that, in case of a severe winter, the
works under the “Terasa Viziru? contract would not be completed before the current closing date
(March 31, 2012). In addition, the extension would allow for delivery and installation of all
goods procured under the WUO Support Program. The Borrower has prepared an updated action
plan for project implementation during the extended time, to complete all project activities.

6.     The project is in compliance with its financial management, reporting and auditing
covenants. The 2010 audit reports have been submitted by the agreed due date, with a clean
(unqualified) audit opinion and no internal control weaknesses were mentioned in the related
management letter.

7.     This will be the second extension of the project. The first extension, by 12 months, was
approved                   on                  July                   12,                 2010.




                                                3
