CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 945 TO
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Cocoa and Coffee Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 23, 1979


﻿HI-Imaw-
CREDIT NUMBER 945 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1979, between the REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(hereinafter called the Borrower or Togo) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called   the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has undertaken, with the assistance
of the Republic of France, a program for the rehabilitation and
improvement of smallholder cocoa and coffee production;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of
France acting through the Fonds d'Aide et de Coopfration, a
grant (hereinafter called the French Grant) in an amount of
15 million French Francs to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Seconde Convention de Financement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Republic of France;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Caisse Cen-
trale de Coopgration Economique a loan (hereinafter called the
First CCCE Loan) in an amount of about 9.4 million French Francs
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms aid
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the First
CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Caisse Centrale de Coopfration Economique;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract, on or about June 30,
1982, from the Caisse Centrale de Coopfration Ecorpmique a loan
(hereinafter called the Second CCCE Loan) in an amount of about
23.3 million French Francs to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in, an agreement
(hereinafter called the Second CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Caisse Certrale de Coopfration
Economique; and
(F) the Borrower has requested the Association acting as
Administrator of a Special Action Account established by agree-
ment, dated May 2, 1978, between the Association and the European
Economic Community and its Member States for 'a credit in the
amount of $4,600,000 equivalent (hereinafter called the Special
Action Credit) to assist in financing part of the Project on the


﻿- 2 -
-2-
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Action Credit Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Association; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SRCC" means Socift6 Nationale pour la R6novation et le
D6veloppement de la Cacaoyire et de la CafeiAre Togolaise, an
agency of the Borrower;
(b) "CNCA" means Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole, an
agency of the Borrower;
(c) "Project Area" means the plains of Litime and Kloto,
and the plateaus of Akposso and Dayes;
(d) "PCU" means the Project Credit Unit referred to in
Sections 3.01 and 3.06 of this Development Credit Agreement;
(e) "PCU Manager" means the expert referred to in Section
3.06 (b) of this Development Credit Agreement;
(f) "IRAT" means Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropi-
cales et des Cultures Vivriares;


﻿-3-
(g) "IFCC" means Institut Frangais du Cafe, du Cacao et
Autres Plantes Stimulantes;
(h) "OPAT" means Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo, an
agency of the Borrower;
(i) "Cocoa-Coffee Development Project" means the Project
carried out under the Development Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the Association dated August 6, 1974;
(j) "Second Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SRCC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) (i) of this Development Credit Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Second Grant Agreement;
(k) "Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and CNCA pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Development Credit Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Second Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and
(1) "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amopunt in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shail otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out


﻿44
of the lroceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Sectioh 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish.        The
Associatio shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Secti6n 2,05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1989, and ending June 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause: (i) SRCC to carry
out Parts A, B, D (i), E, F and G of the Project; (ii) CNCA and
PCU to carry out Parts C and D (ii) of the Project, all with due
diligence and efficiency, under competent management and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause SRCC, CNCA and PCU to be
provided with, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) make available the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (4) and
(5) of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement to SRCC
under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
SRCC (hereinafter called the Second Grant Agreement) under terms


﻿-5-
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and (ii) lend to
CNCA the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to
Categories (2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit
Agreement, and such additional funds from its own resources as
shall be required for carrying out Part C of the Project, all in
accordance with an agreement to be entered into between the Bor-
rower and CNCA (hereinafter called the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, (such terms and conditions shall
include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion).
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Second
Grant and the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, repeal, abrogate or waive the Second Grant or the Second
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
(O) The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its depart-
ments and agencies to take all and any actions necessary on their
part to enable SRCC and CNCA to perform all and any of their
obligations under the Second Grant and the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, and shall not take any action or cause or allow any
action to be taken which might interfere with the performance of
such obligations.
Section 3.02. In order to assist SRCC and CNCA in the carry-
ing out of Parts D and F of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
SRCC and CNCA to employ or continue to employ upon terms of
reference, including conditions of employment, satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, experts and consultants in the field
of management, credit and agriculture whose qualifications and
experience shall be acceptable to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance, any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿F                                       --6 -
-6-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause SRCC and CNCA to maintain
records adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including the cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to SRCC and onlent to CNCA by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
inspect the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of e  cldind the goods and services financed out of
such  proceeds, including, withods     atin tonthe foregoing,
regular quarterly and annual reports in respect of the Project's
progress.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the carrying out of the Project and shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
41,


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause CNCA to maintain until the recoF)ery of the credits
made in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement, a Project
Credit Unit, to be responsible for: (i) reviewing and submitting
for approval within two weeks by CNCA's Loan Committee, credits to
farmers as required in the carrying out of Part C of the Project,
on the basis of SRCC's technical recommendations and the Project
Credit Unit's own assessment of each farmer's creditworthiness;
(ii) disbursing the cash portion of such credits; (iii) keeping
credit accounts for both cash portions and in-kind portions of
such credits furnished to each farmer by SRCC;<' (iv) collecting
repayments of principal of such credits and interest thereon; and
(v) if necessary, providing marketing services to farmers who have
received credits under Part C of the Project, in accordance with
paragraph 4 (b) of Part C of Schedule 5. to this Development Credit
Agreement; and
(b) cause CNCA to maintain within PCU, until the recovery of
the credits made in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
the position of PCU Manager. Such PCU Manager will (i) have
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association,
(ii) be employed pursuant to terms,,and conditions satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association and (iii) have overall respon-
sibility for the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause SRCC to organize
farmers desiring to participate in the carrying out of Part B of
the Project in village production groups consisting of at least
five farmers, in order to ensure the efficient carryin). out of
Part B of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause: (i) SRCC to
study custom-based landlord-tenant and .,creditor-landlord rela-
tionships in the Litim6 plain; and (ii) put into effect or shall
cause to have put into effect not later than March 31, 1980
a landlord-tenant contract which shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association resulting from this study.
(b) The Borrower shall thereafter discuss and cause SRCC
to discuss with the Association, at yearly intervals until the
completion of the Project, the results of such implemented
landlord-tenant contract and shall put into effect or cause to
have put into effect all recommendations made by the Association
as a result of such discussions.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause PCU to charge an
interest rate of 8.5% per annum on credits to farmers, and shall
compensate PCU at a rate of 2.5% per annum on all outstanding
farmer's credits in order for PCU to cover its total operating
cost.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SRCC, CNCA and
PCU to maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project,
and financial condition of SRCC, CNCA and PCU, including without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause SRCC, CNCA and PCU to: (i)
have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; and (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements
for such year so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including without limitation
to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect
of the expenditures and recordy referred to in Section 4.01
(b) of this Development Credit Agreement as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided.


﻿-9-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SRCC and PCU to take
out and maintain with responsible in\surers, or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consfstent with sound
practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause SRCC and PCU to maintain, at a banking institution
acceptable to the Association,w two special accounts in the names
of SRCC and PCU respectively;
(b) deposit an additional CFA Francs 50,000,000 into the
said SRCC bank account and an additional CFA Francs 25,000,000
into the said PCU bank account; and
(c) replenish the said bank accounts quarterly, in advance,
on the basis of SRCC and PCU's annual budgets, which budgets are
to be submitted to the Association for its approval annually, in
.advance, not later than May 31 of the year preceding the one
for which the budget is prepared.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause SRCC to maintain at
all times until the completion of the Project a General Manager
and heads of SRCC's sections Finance and administration, Planting
material production, Extension services and training, General
services and engineering, and Road construction and maintenance
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause to have established
within OPAT, not later thari March 31, 1980, a Cash Crop Analyzing
Unit, shall review, on at least an annual basis, farmgate prices
for cocoa and coffee and shall discuss with the Association the
level of such farmgate prices at the time and after completion of
any such review.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall: (i) cause SRCC and CNCA to
adequately maintain the buildings, equipment, vehicles, roads and
other facilities included in the Project and financed out of the
proceeds of the Development Credit, and make all necessary,repairs
and renewals thereof; and (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.


﻿-10-
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall carry out, through OPAT, in
the areas planted or replanted with cocoa within the Project Area,
anticapsid triatinent campaigns, free of charge, to farmers and
shall provide, promptly as needed, all the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such campaigns.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall finance IRAT's 1979 oper-
ating costs for the Centre Polyvalent of Adeta, estimated to be
CFA Francs 9,000,000.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall provide PCU out of its
own funds with CFA Francs 310,000,000 to enable PCU to continue
extending credit in accordance with Part C of the Project after
full disbursement of the proceeds allocated for such purpose under
this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
contract, not later than December 31, 1979 or such later date
as the Association shall agree, with the Republic of France acting
through the Fonds d'Aide et de Coop&ration the French Grant. If
the French Grant shall not have become effective on April 30, 1980
or such later date as the Association shall agree, the Borrower
shall, at such time, provide funds, or make arrangements- to be
provided with funds on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
contract, not later than June 30, 1982 or such later date as the
Association shall agree, with the Caisse Centrale cle Cooperation
Economique, the Second CCCE Loan. If the Second CCCE Loan Agree-
ment shall not have become effective on September 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Association shall agree, the Eorrower shall, at
such time, provide funds, or make arrangements to be provided with
funds from other sources on terms and conditions similar to those
of the First dCCE Loan Agre6ment or on such other terms and
conditions as the Association shall agree, to meet the estimated
expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.12.. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
November 30, 1979, an organization of licensed buyers of cocoa
and/or coffee of a structure satisfactory to the Association,
which shall ensure an adequate commercialization and, in coordi-
nation with PCU, a satisfactory credit recovery.


﻿-"117-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance of the
Borrower's obligations under Section 4.1.0 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the French Grant, of the First
CCCE Loan, the Second CCCE Loan or of the
Special Action Credit made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the Seconde
Convention de Financement, the First CCCE Loan
Agreement, the Second CCCE Loan Agreement or
the Special Action Credit Agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) the First CCCE Loan, the Second CCCE Loan or
the Special Action Credit shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under the Seconde Convention de Financement,
the First CCCE Loan Agreement, the Second CCCE
Loan Agreement or the Special Action Credit
Agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿-12-
(c) a default shall have occurred in the payment of princi-
pal or any other charge required under the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(d) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any other obligation: (i) on the part of the Borrower under the
Seconde Convention de Financement, the First CCCE Loan Agreement,
the Second CCCE Loan Agreement, the Special Action Credit Agree-
ment, the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Second Grant
Agreement; or (ii) on the part of CNCA, under the Second Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement; or (iii) on the part of SRCC, under the
Second Grant Agreement;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SRCC or of CNCA or of PCU or for the suspension of their
respective operations;
(f) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that SRCC or CNCA will be able to perform their
obligations under the Second Grant Agreement or the Second Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement, respectively; and
(g) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
the Borrower's obligations under Section 4.11 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of thirty days;
(b) the events specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(c) an event specified in paragraphs (a), (e), (f) or (g) of
Section 5.01 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the First CCCE Loan Agreement has been executed and
delivered on behalf of CCCE and the Borrower, respectively, and
such execution and delivery have been duly authorized and ratified
by all governmental action and the conditions precedent to the
initial disbursement under such First CCCE Loan Agreement have
been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement;
(b) the Special Action Credit Agreement has been executed
and delivered on behalf of the Association and the Borrower,
respectively, and such execution and delivery have been duly
.authorized and ratified by all governmental action and the condi-
tions precedent to the initial disbursement under such Special
Action Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement;
(c) the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and CNCA, respectively,
and such execution and delivery have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(d) the Second Grant Agreement has been executed and deliv-
ered on behalf of the Borrower and SRCC, respectively, and such
execution and delivery have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and goVernmental action;
(e) the Borrower has made fully available to SRCC the
Centres Polyvalents of Adeta and Klabe-Azafi, including all
land, buildits and stores, for the purposes of execution of Part
G of the Project;
(f) the Borrower has committed itself to the satisfaction of
the Association to pay, through OPAT, a premium of CFA Francs
60,000 per hectare to farmers for cutting down and replanting of
old unproductive cocoa plantations until the completion of the
Project, such premiums to be disbursed in five equal annual
tranches; and


﻿-14-
(g) the Borrower has made the deposits described in Sec-
tion 4.03 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date November 27, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the-purposes of Section 12.04 of the Gen,ral Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (c) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre des Finances et de l'Economie of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
MinistAre des Finances
et de l'Economie
Lomf, Republic of Togo
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFINANCES                        5286
Lome
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7i
-15-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year firat above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By ls/ Yao Grunitzky
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By ls/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿)16-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1), SRCC
(i) Buildings                  150,000        50%
(ii) Vehicles and
equipment                 390,000         50%
(iii) Technical
assistance                940,000         50%
(iv) Studies                   140,000         50%
(v) Local personnel          4,460,000        50%
and operating costs
(2) PCU
(i) Buildings, vehicles        90,000         50%
and equipment
(ii) Local personnel            660,000        50%
and operating costs
(iii) Technical assistance       100,000        50%
(3) CNCA credits                   2,100,000       50% of dis-
to farmers                                    bursements
under credits


﻿-17-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) Applied research
and seeds production
(a) by IFCC                  1,220,000        50%
(b) by IRAT                    420,000        50%
(5) Road construction             1,930,000        50%
and maintenance
(6) Unallocated                   1,400,000
TOTAL         14,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have ,been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Associaf:ion that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, and unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made
for expenditures made or to be made prior to the disbursement
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Association has reasonably estiniated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any C ,tegory


﻿181
- 18 -
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
*     .~-.',~1V


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the third stage of the Borrower's program
for the rehabilitation& and improvement of smallholder cocoa and
coffee production and consists of the following parts:
A.   Expansion of Facilities
1.   Construction of thirteen senior and junior staff houses,
extension of office facilities for the field services
and for a foodcrop research and seed multiplication
center, and construction of fertilizer and equipment
stores and sheds.
2.   Acquisition of road construction equipment, trucks,
pick-ups, personnel vehicles and bicycles for SRCC;
acquisition of a tractor and agricultural machinery and
equipment for a foodcrop research and seed multiplica-
tion center.
3.   Financing of the construction of small stores with a
storage area of about 60 m2 in villages having reached
an annual marketing level of about 60 tons of cocoa,
coffee, or both.
4.   Testing of improved methods of coffee processing.
B.   Planting
1.   The propagation of planting materials, under the super-
vision of SRCC, and the provision of such planting mate-
rial to village nurseries and farmers participating in
the Project.
2.   Provision of services for the bringing to maturity and
maintenance of cocoa and coffee plantations established
under the Cocoa-Coffee Development Project.
3.   The planting or replanting'and maintenance by about
17,000 farmers in the Project Area of:
(a) about 7,500 hectares of toffee and about 4,000 hec-
tares of cocoa; and


﻿I 20I
(b) about 7,000 hectares of improved foodcrops such
as maize, cassava, yam, rice, cowpeas, sorghum,
groundnuts as well as plantains and cocoa yams in
and outside coffee and cocoa plantations.
4.   The carrying out in the Project Area planted with cocoa
of:
(a) a swollen shoot virus disease eradication program;
and
(b) anticapsid treatment campaigns, free-of-charge to
the farmers.
5.   The provision and improvement by SRCC of adequate
agricultural extension services for cocoa, coffee and
foodcrops to farmers participating in the Project.
C.   Credit
Provision by CNCA through PCU of agricultural credit to
farmers participating in the Project, in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
D.   Organization and Management
Strengthening of: (i) SRCC through (a) provision and employ-
ment of a General Manager, a Financial Manager and other
qualified section chiefs, as well as other staff; and (b)
improved training of extension agents; and (ii) PCU through
provision and employment of an experienced credit .specialist.
E.   Roads
Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of about 300 km
of feeder roads within tie Project Area, and maintenance of
about 160 km of feeder roads constructed under the Cocoa-
Coffee Development Project.
F.   Studies
1.   Evaluating the Project's managerial, economic, finan-
cial and other performance and results as well as the
feasibility of future investments in the cocoa and
coffee sector.


﻿-21 -
2.   Examining the Togolese plantain market and      making
detailed recommendations to SRCC for the marketing of
Project production.
Gø   Research, Planting Materials and Seed Production
Applied research on aspects of cocoa, coffee and foodcrop
production in Togo, and production of primary planting
materials and seeds under contracts with IFCC and IRAT, all
in consultation with the Association.
*              *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for goods and
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, inj such
form and detail and containing such information as the Asa6dation
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrang    for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such noti8e annually as long as any goods or
works remain to be procured a the basis of international compet-
itive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿23-[
Togo may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Togo if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Togo equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied dome'stically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for uthe importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿-24-
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment and goods estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent but at least $10,000 equivalent may
be awarded through competitive bidding on the basis of local
advertising in accordance with procurement procedures acceptable
to the Association; provided, however, that the aggregate amount
of all contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed $2,300,000
equivalent.
2.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment and goods estimated to cost
less than $10,000 equivalent may be awarded following prudent
shopping procedures, provided, however, that the aggregate amount
of all contracts to be so awarded shall not excee-I $700,000
equivalent.
3.   Contracts for civil works, mainly roads, housing, field
offices and warehouses scattered over large areas, not exceeding
in the aggregate $400,000 equivalent, may be awarded through
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association
or, after specific prior approval by the Association, may be
carried out by SRCC through force account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, vehicles and
road construction equipment estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and the reasons for the intended award and


﻿-25-
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the Borrower's recommendation for
award and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with., the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower nd state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of -he contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Suimmary of Termo and Conditions
of the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The Borrower shall lend to CNCA, free of interest, the
equivalent of that part of the proceeds of the Credit which shall
be withdrawn for expenditures made or to be made under Categories
(2) and <3) of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement and
such additional funds from its own resources as shall be required
for carrying out Part C of the Project, for a period of seventeen
years including a grace period of four years for that part of the
proceeds withdrawn for making credits to farmers for coffee
replanting and six years for that part of the proceeds withdrawn
-for making credits to farmers for cocoa replanting.
iM-


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending and Operating Policies and
Procedures of CNCA in Respect of
Part C of the Project
A.   Purpose
CNCA will make credits to eligible farmers only for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of eligible expenditures
included in Part B.3 of the Project.
B.   Eligibility
1.   In order to qualify for the granting of a credit, each
applicant must show to the satisfaction of PCU that he meets all
such creditworthiness and technical criteria as shall be reason-
ably established from time to time by SRCC and PCU, respectively.
2.   A farmer shall not be eligible to receive a credit unless
he is a member of one of the village production groups referred to
in Section 3.07 of this Development Credit Agreement.
C.   Terms and Conditions
1.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no credits
shall exceed the amount of CFA Francs 80,000 per hectare in the
case of cocoa farmers, and CFA Francs 95,000 per hectare in the
case of coffee farmers.
2.   The principal amount of each credit outstanding from time
to time shall:
(a) bear interest of eight and one-half per cent (8.50%)
per annum to be capitalized during the grace period; and
(b) (i) be repaid over a period of twelve years including
a grace period of six years, in the case of cocoa planters; and
(ii) be repaid over a period of eight years including a grace
period of four years, in the case of coffee planters.
3.   Any standard credit agreement between CNCA and a farmer
shall include such other covenants as shall be satisfactory to the
Association, inter alia, good husbandry (including adequate
phytosanitary measures) and residence covenants on the part of the


﻿- 28 -
farmer, disclosure and information covenants on the part of CNCA
(in accordance with Part D of this Schedule) and adequate terms
and conditions concerning supervision, suspension of disbursements
and foreclosure and other enforcements of security in favor of
CNCA.
4.   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph C.3 above
the credit agreement shall contain the following security provi-
sions:
(a) whenever the debtor is a tenant or sharecropper farmer,
the landlord having title to the land where the sub-loan proceeds
will be invested, shall sign the credit agreement as joint obli-
gor; and
(b) farmers shall undertake to sell, upon the Project
Credit Unit's request, such portions of their coffee and cocoa
crops as the Project Credit Unit shall deem necessary to service
the credit out of such sale proceeds, to a licensed buying agent
of OPAT selected by the farmer and approved by the PCU.
D.   Disbursements and Records
1.   Whenever any goods or services to be financed out of the
proceeds of any credit and to be delivered in kind to the farmers
are procured or paid for by CNCA directly or through SRCC's
intervention, CNCA shall promptly notify-its debtors of the
amounts charged to their respective credit accounts on account of
such goods or services so procured or paid, such notification to
be accompanied with copies of the debtor's receipt for such goods
or services in the amounts so charged.
2.   CNCA shall furnish semi-annual statements to each debtor,
sheing-the amounts drawn on'the debtor's credit account, includ
ing interest, payments made and the outstanding balance of the
-respective credit.
E.   Supervision
1.   SRCC shall ensure that amounts drawn on credit accounts are
applied exclusively to expenditures on the farm development plan
that such credit is intended to assist in financing.                   4


﻿<29
2 - 29 -
2.   SRCC staff shall regularly visit the farms where farm devel-
opment plans financed through credits are being carried out to
ensure that debtors are efficiently and punctually carrying
out such plans and complying with the provisions of their respec-
tive credit agreements with CNCA.
>  45
1
E REM1


