Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 24067-BR
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROPOSED
SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$404.04 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
May 20, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Real (R$)
EXCHANGE RATE
1999 R$1.79= US$1
2000 R$1.95 = US$
2001 R$2.32 = US$1
March 2002 R$ 2.29 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA                                                     Analytic and Advisory Activity
ADR                                                     American Depository Receipt
ATM           Caixa Eletr6nico                          Automatic Teller Machines
BACEN         Banco Central do Brasil                   Central Bank of Brazil
BAS           Padroes Contiveis Brasileiros              Brazilian Accounting Standards
BASA          Banco da Amaz6nia S.A.                    -Bank of Amazon
BB            Banco do Brasil                           Bank of Brazil
BCB           Banco Central do Brasil                    Central Bank of Brazil
BEG           Banco do Estado de Goids S.A.              State Bank of Goias
BESC          Banco do Estado do Santa Catarina S.A.     State Bank of Santa Catarina
BIS           Banco de Compensacoes Internacionais      Bank for Intemational Settlements
BM&F          Bolsa de Mercadorias e Futuros            Commodities and Future Exchange
BNB           Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A.          Northeast of Brazil Bank
BNDES         Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico National Bank for Economic and Social
e Social                                   Development
BNDESpar      Empresas Participantes do Banco Nacional de  Participating Companies of the National Bank for
Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social         Economic and Social Development
BOVESPA       Bolsa de Valores de Sao Paulo             Brazilian Stock Exchange (Sao Paulo)
Vice President    ,,                 David e Fernti
.Count Director't' '        '-'...ViiodTon      s
Lead Economist                      -Joachimvon,Axnsbcrg
' Sector Director                    Dn M, ai   pziyer
SectorMana'ger                      TFemando Montes-Negret   ,
''Task M  iager                        Axiali Kw"ar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMELS                                                   Bank supervision principles (Capital strength,
Asset quality, Management ability, _amings
sufficiency, Liquidity, and Sensitivity to market
risk)
CAPAF         Caixa de Previdoncia e Assistencia aos    Pension Fund for Employees of Bank of Amazon
Ftnciondrios do Banco da Amazdnia S.A
CAR                                                     Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS           Estratigia de Assistdncia para o Pais     Country Assistance Strategy
CBLC          Companhia Brasileira de Liquwda.do e Custddia Brazilian Custodian and Settlement Company
CCI           Cedula de Cridao Imobilidrio              Mortgage Credit
CCR           Cia de Concessdes Rodovinrias             Highway Concessions Company
CEF           Caixa Econ6mica Federal                   National Infrastructure!Housing Bank
CETIP         Central de Cust6dia e de Liqwdacdo Financeira Central Custody and Settlement of Securities
de Titlos
CFT-H         Certificado Financeiro do Tesouro         Treasury Bonds
CMN           Conselho Moneidrio Nactonal               National Monetary Council
COFINS        Coniribuwcdo para o Financiamento da      Social Security Tax
Seguridade Social
COSIF         Piano Contdbil das Instituiqdes do Sistema  Standardized Chart of Accounts
Financeiro iVacional
CPC           Comite de Padrdes Contdbezs               Accounting Standards Board
CPI           Indice iVacional de Pregos ao Consumidor  Consumer price index
CPMF          Contribziucdo Prov,s6ria sobre Movimentac5o  Temporary Tax on Financidl Transactions
Financeira
CPSS                                                    Core Principles for Systemically Important
Payments System
CRSFN         Conselho de Recursos do Sistema Financeiro  National Financial System Resource Council
Nacional
CSLL          Contribuicdo Social sbbre o Lucro Liquido  Social contribution on profits
CTN           Certificados do Tesouro Nacional          National Treasury Bonds
CVM           Comissdo de Valores Mobilidrnos do Brasil  Brazilian Securities & Exchange Commission
CVS           CompensacAo de PariacJes SalariaLs        Salary Variation Compensation (indexing system
for housing)
DEBAN         Departamento de Operacaes Bancdrias e de  Department of Banking Operations and Payments
Sistema de Pagamentos
DEC                                                     Development Economics Group
DIEESE       Departamento Intersindical de Estatisticas e  Department of Statistics and Socio-Economic
Estudos Socioecon6micos                   Studies
DOC           Documento de Crddito                      Credit Document
ECT           Empresa Brasileira de Correios e Teldgrafos  Brazil Post and Telegraph Company
EMGEA         Empresa Gestora de Ativos                 Asset Management Company
FACS                                                    Bank Group Business Climate survey (Firm
Analysis and Competitiveness Survey)
FAHBRE        Fundo de Apoio a Produqdo de Habitades para Support Fund for Housing Production for Low
PopulacAo de BaLra Renda                  Income Population
FAMPE         Fundo de Aval as Microempre-sas e Empresas de Loan Guarantee Fund for Micro and Small
Pequeno Porte                             Enterprises
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FASB         Comite de Padroes em Contabilidade Financeira Financial Accounting Standards Board
FAT          Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador           Workers' Support Fund
FCO          Fundo Constitucional                     Federal Constitution Fund for the Financing of the
de Financiamento do Centro-Oeste         Central-West
FCVS         Fundo de Compensa&do das Varia,ces Salariais Salary Variation Compensation Fund
FDI          Investimento Estrangeiro Direto          Foreign Direct Investment
FDS          Fundo de Desenvolvimento Social          Social Development Fund
FEBRABAN     Federado Brasileira das Associa,coes de Bancos Brazilian Federation of Banks Association
FFI                                                   Federal Financial Institution
FGC          Fundo Garantidor de Creditos             Deposit Insurance Fund
FGTS         Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servi,o    Federal Unemployment Fund
FIDC         Fundos de Investimento em Direitos Credit6rios Credit Investment Funds
FINAME       0 Fundo de Investimentos da Amaz6nia     Amazon Investment Fund
FINOR        Fundo de Investimentos do Nordeste       Northeast Development Fund
FNE          Fundo Constitucional de Financiamento    Constitutional Fund for Development of the
do Nordeste                              Northeast
FNO          Fundo Constitucional de Financiamento do Norte Constitutional Fund for Financing of the North
FSTAL        Emprestimo para Assistdncia Tdcnica no Setor  Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
Financeiro
FUNCAFE      Fundo de Defesa da Economia Cafeeira     Coffee Economy Defense Fund
FUNCEF       Funda,do dos Economidrios Federais       Federal Economists Foundation
GCI          Inspe,do Consolidada Global              Global Consolidated Inspection
GDP          Produto Interno Bruto                    Gross Domestic Product
HDI/IDH      Indice de Desenvolvimento Humano         Human Development Indicators
IAS          Padroes Contaveis Internacionais        International Accounting Standards
IBCA
IBGE         Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica  Brazilian Institute of National Statistics and
Geography
IDB          Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento  Inter-American Development Bank
IFC          Corpora,co Financeira Internacional     International Finance Corporation
IGC          fndice de Governan,a Corporativa         Corporate Governance Index
IGP-DI       indice Geral de Pre,os do IBGE (Disponibilidade
Interna)
IGPM        indice Geral de Pre,os do Mercado
IMF          Fundo Monetdrio Internacional           International Monetary Fund
IOF          Imposto sobre Opera,coes Financeiras     Tax on Financial Operations
IPCA         indice Nacional de Precos ao Consumidor Amplo Broad Consumer price index
IPO          Oferta Puhlica Inicial (de a95es)       Initial Public Offer
ISS          Imposto Sobre Servi,os e taxas Municipais  Municipal Tax on Services
LCI          Letra de Credito Imobilidrio
LFT          Certificados Federais Putblicos          Federal Public Bonds
LH           Letras Hipotecdrias                      Mortgage Bonds
MBS/ABS                                               Mortgage Backed/Asset Backed Securities
MOF          Ministerio da Fazenda                    Ministry of Finance
MtM          Marca,co a mercado                       Mark-to-Market
NGO          Organiza,do N&o Governamental            Non-governmental Organization
Page iv



NPV                                                    Net Present Value
NTN          Notas do Tesouro Nacional                 National Treasury Bonds
OECD         Organiza,do para a Coopera,do e           Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Desenvolvimento Econ6micos                Development
ONG          Organizaq'4o Ndo Governmental             Non-Governmental Organization
OREO                                                   Other Real Estate Owned
OSCIP        Organiza9ao da Sociedade Civil de Interesse  Public Interest Civil Societies
Pztlico
PAA          Posto de Atendimento Avang,ado            Advanced Service Post
PAB          Posto de Atendimento Bancdrio             Banking Service Post
PCR          Programa de Capital de Risco              Venture Capital Program
PESA         Programa Especial de Saneamento de Ativos  Special Program for Asset Recovery
PFSECAL      Emprestimo Programdtico para Ajuste ao Setor  Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Financeiro
PIS          Programa de Integra,co Social             Social Security Tax
PLA          Patrim6nio Liquido Ajustado               Adjusted Net Worth
PPA          Plano Plurianual                          Multi-Annual Plan
PRODECER     Programa de Coopera,do Nipo-Brasileira para o Development Program for the Cerrado Area
Desenvolvimento dos Cerrados
PROER        Programa de Estimulo a Reestrutura,do e ao  Restructuring and Strengthening of the National
Fortalecimento do Sistema Financeiro Nacional Financial System
PROES        Programa de Incentivo a Redu,do do Setor  Reduction of State level participation in banking
P1blico Estadual na Atividade Bancdrta    activities
PRONAF       Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da    National Program for the Strengthening of
Agricultura Familiar                      Domestic Agriculture
PRORURAL     Projeto de Combate a Pobreza Rural do Estado  Project to Fight Rural Poverty in the State of
de Pernambuco                             Pemambuco
PSBR         Necessidade de Financiamento do Setor Publico Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
RAP          Prdtica de Contabilidade Regulat6ria      Regulatory Accounting Practices
ROA                                                    Return on Assets
ROE                                                    Return on Equity
RTGS         Liquidagdo pelo Valor Bruto em Tempo-Real  Real-time Gross Settlement
RWA                                                    Risk Weighted Assets
SCM          Sociedades de Credito ao Microempreendedor  Microenterprise Credit Societies
SEBRAE       Servi,o Brasileiro de Apoio as Micro e Pequenas Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support
Empresas                                  Service
SELIC        Sistema Especial de Liquida,co e Custodia  Special System of Custody and Settlement of
Federal Securities
SFI          Sistema Financeiro Imobiliario
SLA
SME (PME)    Pequenas e Microempresas                  Small and Medium Enterprise
SPC          Secretdria de Previdencia Complementar    Secretariat of Complementary Pension System
SRD                                                    Securitization of Rural Debts
STR          Sistema de Transferencia de Reservas      Reserve Transfer System
SUSEP        Superintendencia de Seguros Privados      Superintendency of Pension Insurance
TA           Auxilio Tecnico                           Technical Assistance
TDA          Titulo da Divida Agrdria                  Agricultural Debt Notes
TJLP         Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo              Long Term Interest Rate
TR           Taxa de Referencia
Page v






BRAzIL
SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ......................................................................... VIl
I. INTRODUCTION ..........................................................................        1
BANK FINANCIAL SECTOR DIALOGUE AND OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL .    ........................................................................1
RECENT REFORM ACHIEVEMENTS - BASIs OF SECOND PROGRAMMATiC FiNANCIAL SECTOR LOAN ......... ...............2
PROPOSED SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATiON - OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE .... 2
IMF RELATIONS AND THE JOINT FSAP ..................................................................................................4
IFC  INVOLVEMENT IN BRAZIL'S FINANCIAL SECTOR  ............................................................................................... 5
II. LINKS TO POVERTY REDUCTION .........................................................................  6
BRAZIL'S OVERALL TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN POVERTY REDUCTION .        .........................................................6
DIRECT AND INDIRECT IMPACT ON POVERTY REDUCTION OF FINANCIAL STRENGTH AND STABILITY ...................... 7
POVERTY REDUCTION IN THE PROPOSED PRoGRAM - EXPANDED ACCESS ....................... ........................................8
m. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS .................................................................  11
IV. BRAZIL'S FINANCIAL SYSTEM - RECENT EVOLUTION AND SELECTED ISSUES                  .    .      15
OVERALL FINANcIAL INTERMEDIATION ..................................................................... 15
THE BANKING SYSTEM AND ITS RECENT EVOLUTION ...................................................... 26
PUBLIC BANK REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING ...................................................... 29
BANK SUPERVISION AND BANK FAILURE RESOLUTION ............................................................................... 34
SECURITIES MARKETS ....................... ................................. 41
THE PAYMENTS SYSTEM..46
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN                     ..48
REFORM PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY THE BANK              ..50
DESCRIPTION OF F     INANCIAL ASSISTANCE        ..56
BENEFITS OF THE PROPOSED LOAN              ..62
RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION               ..65
Annexes
Annex 1: Matrix of Objectives, Actions and Indicators ...............................................................
Annex 2: Public Bank Reform and Restructuring .........................................................................
Annex 3: Access to Financial Services.
Annex 4:  Brazil's Payments Reforrn Update ..........................................................................................
Annex 5: Status of Bank Group Operations ............................................................................
Annex 6: Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio............................................................
Annex 7:  Brazil at a Glance..................................................................................................
This Report has been prepared by ateam' including Fernando!Montes-Negret, Joaqu''m Guterrez, IWalter
Zunic,-Thiorsten Beck,'Massimo,Cisir,o andsAdam Parsons. Inputs have also been received from Loic
,Chiquier, Sophie, Sirtaine, Diniela Klingebiel, Th omas Glaessner, Ricardo GonqiIves; Mark Thomas,
Santiago Herrera,' Fernando Mauro,'Mary Sheeharn and Susana Sanchez. Peer,Reviewers for this task are
',Mauricio'Carrizosa,' James Hanson and Augusto de la,Torse. Micky Ananth ha contutprocessing,,s,
logistics and support. The:overall Task Managerlof this operation is AhjaKinKunar.
Page vi






BRAZIL
SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJusTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing         Central Bank of Brazil and Brazilian Securities and Exchange
Agencies:            Commission
Poverty Category:    Not Applicable.
Amount:              US$404.04 million.
Terms:               Fixed spread loan in US dollars, with a bullet repayment in ten years.
Commitment Fee:      0.85% per annum during the first four years and 0.75% per annum
thereafter on undisbursed loan amounts, beginning to accrue sixty days
after the loan agreement is signed.
Front-End Fee        1% of the loan amount, to be financed under the loan.
Objective:           The objective of the proposed operation is to lend continued support to
the comprehensive financial sector reform program pursued by the
authorities and supported by the Bank through a first programmatic
loan in 2001, and its recently expanded sectoral reform agenda.
Through its support for a strengthened financial system, the loan would
help to anchor poverty reduction in Brazil with sustainable, sound and
crisis-dampening economic growth, as well as directly aiding
poverty alleviation through enhanced access to rmancial services
Description:         The proposed second financial sector adjustment loan supports
sustained progress in all reform areas covered in the first programmatic
operation, and gives particular recognition to accelerated
implementation of major and difficult financial sector reforms, beyond
the scope of the first programmatic adjustment operation. Areas
covered include:
(i) Progress with regard to program actions to:
* Enhance access to and raise efficiency in financial intermediation;
*  Promote banking system soundness and preventfinancial crises;
* Improve governance in capital markets and strengthen the regulator
* Reduce systemic payments risks and Central Bank exposure to
losses in settlement.
(ii) Public bank reform, encompassing initiation of major
restructuring / reform of Federal banks, plus extension of
privatization of state-owned public banks, including:
* Restoration to health offederal bank balance sheets, recognizing
and absorbing past losses
* Assumption by government of risks and costs incurred due to
Page vii



future implementation of government programs and the
unbundling of government and commercial objectives
• Establishment of inproved internal controls, and
* Preparation of blueprint for second stage reforms
(iii) Passage / submission of major legal reforms pertaining to the
financial sector, including notably passage of a landmark revision of
the Corporate Law, which enhances minority shareholder rights, and
passage of a revised CVM law, strengthening the securities regulator.
A Constitutional amendment which would unblock legislation in several
areas, including the submission to Congress of a Central Bank law is
now before Congress. This is not a part of the core package for the
present operation.
Benefits             Brazil's financial sector reform program will help to finnly anchor
sustainable, environmentally and socially sound growth with
directly targeted poverty reduction through measures to expand
access to financial services, and enhance protection against crises.
The program rests upon dialogue of unusual quality at the highest
levels and enables the building of a partnership in reform efforts with a
key player whose financial sector has systemic regional links.
Specifically, benefits of the overall program include (i) broadened
access to a wider spectrum of financial services by the poor and
measures to increase efficiency and transparency of overall financial
intermediation; (ii) sounder operations of both public and private banks
(iii) reduced systemic risk and Central Bank exposure to risk of loss in
settlement, and (iv) increased securities market participation and hence
enhanced access to capital for enterprise growth. Expected benefits of
public bank reform include enhanced financial soundness in Brazil's
largest financial institutions; enhanced fiscal transparency and the
removal of distortions in financial markets. Benefits of progress with
fundamental financial sector legislation include significant
improvements in the governance framework for corporations,
strengthening shareholder rights and encouraging increased
participation in Brazil's stock markets, as well as strengthened
securities regulation.
If the hoped for passage of a fundamental Constitutional amendment
occurs it would enable the rationalization of a series of areas in the
financial system.
Risks                (i) Political Uncertainty: The comprehensiveness and pace of the
reform program so far has been sustained by the well-coordinated
current economic team, working collaboratively across the Central
Bank, Ministry of Finance and regulatory agencies, and the support this
team has enjoyed from the Office of the President. The outlook after
the elections would depend upon the new administration. These
Page viii



uncertainties are exacerbated by the practice of political appointment of
key senior financial sector officials including the head of the Central
Bank and federal financial institutions. The drive of the present
administration to firmly entrench changes prior to the end of their term
and their success in building broad-based public support for reform are
mitigating factors.
(ii) Adverse Macroeconomic Circumstances - domestic and
international: As in 2001, Brazil remains potentially vulnerable to
external shocks and weakened investor confidence in the region which
could impact adversely on the exchange rate and weaken macro
conditions. In late 2001, Brazil restored macroeconomic stability, and
investors have substantially 'decoupled' Brazil from the contagion of
Argentina. But Brazil will need to maintain fiscal discipline in order to
ensure debt sustainability. The government has clearly reiterated its
commitment to sound fiscal policy through a number of measures,
including a recent federal budget cut of US$5.3 billion. The proposed
operation would remain as relevant in case of turbulence and could
further help to anchor markets.
(iii) Implementation difficulties in sustaining future stages of
federal bank reform: Implementation of the next stage of reforms for
the federal banks depends on the adoption of a shared vision by the
banks themselves, the government and the Central Bank. Difficult
decisions will arise regarding business choices, and the government in
its dual capacity as owner of the federal banks and provider of support
for policy based lending could be in a conflicted position. Moreover,
senior managers both at the federal banks and the Central Bank may
change in the upcoming elections. However, the institutionalization of
enhanced supervision of these banks, uniform prudential regulations,
together with the adoption of clear strategic plans by the institutions
themselves will help to maintain the momentum of reform.
Financing Plan       Not Applicable
Net Present Value    Not Applicable
Project Identification PE-P066259-LEN-BB
Number
Page ix






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    This memorandum proposes a Single-Tranche Second Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (Second PFSECAL) to the Federative Republic of Brazil in an amount of
US$404.04 million. The Loan would support an extensive program of financial sector reforms.
The present Loan follows a previous, first, programmatic financial sector adjustment loan to
Brazil, in the amount of US$404.04 million, approved by the Bank's Board on May 24, 2001
(Loan No.7053-BR), followed by a US$14.5 million companion Financial Sector Technical
Assistance Loan FSTAL (Loan No. 4637-BR), approved by the Bank's Board on September 4,
2001, intended to support the implementation of the broad-based programmatic reform through
technical assistance to Brazil's two key financial regulatory agencies.
BANK FINANCIAL SECTOR DIALOGUE AND OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
2.    The Bank's first programmatic adjustment loan to Brazil's financial sector had its
underpinnings in a series of financial sector reform actions initiated with the stabilization
brought about by the 1994 Real Plan, which accelerated after 1999, when macroeconomic
stabilization was demonstrated to endure despite severe exchange rate turbulence. The program
included under the loan was the culmination of Bank dialogue with financial sector authorities
initiated through a technical assistance loan to the Central Bank in 1997, and subsequently
expanded and deepened by a series of targeted policy notes, more comprehensive studies and
continued interchange of views and consultative dialogue.
3.    At the time of the first loan, programmatic support for financial sector reforms was
envisaged for a total amount of up to US$1.2 billion, spread over two to three loans, with timing
depending on the pace and depth of future reform programs. Although macroeconomic
circumstances confronting the country grew more difficult in 2001, due to both a deterioration in
external conditions and a domestic energy crisis, the government has not only maintained but
accelerated its pace of financial sector reforms. CAS discussions in 2001 reconfirmed the
financial sector as a priority area for assistance through programmatic adjustment lending.
4.    The first programmatic loan rested upon a series of reform achievements which had
occurred cumulatively over the period since 1999 (detailed in Part V of this report). Future
programmatic actions supported by the first loan focused on reforms that already enjoyed broad
political support and were deemed to be within the implementation capacity of the executive
branch. A careful distinction was thus made in the first operation between areas of reform which
were supported by the Bank program and the wider reform agenda of the government with



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
regard to the financial system. The latter included ambitious and difficult reforms such as
constitutional amendments, needed to permit fundamental financial sector legislation, as well as
the restructuring of the federal banks and the privatization of state-owned banks. Given the
difficulty of predicting the timing of their realization due to the need for political support and in
some cases, Congressional approval, such efforts were recognized by the Bank but omitted from
the subset of actions under the Bank-supported programmatic loan agenda. Bank dialogue with
the government in these areas, at the time of the first operation, was limited.
RECENT REFoRM ACHIEVEMENTS - BASIS OF SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR LOAN
5.    Although less than a year from the presentation of the first programmatic financial sector
loan to the Bank's Board, there have been major achievements in specific key areas of the
financial sector, and substantial progress on a broad number of fronts. Particularly noteworthy
are the acceleration of steps taken towards initiating the reform of the Federal banks,
consolidation and extension of restructuring and privatization of state-owned public banks, and
progress in major legal reforms, including the passage of a landmark revision of the Corporate
Law. Federal Bank reform was beyond the scope of the first Bank-supported financial sector
program due to political sensitivity and uncertainty surrounding its likelihood. Moreover
dialogue between the Bank and the authorities in this areas has opened up, in terms of discussion
of the potential future evolution of reforms from both a sectoral and institutional perspective.
There has been broad parallel progress on all major fronts with regard to achievement of
indicative actions for a second programmatic loan, as envisaged in the first operation and
described above. Achievements in some cases exceed expectations. These areas of action
together form the pillars of the proposed second financial sector adjustment operation. Further, a
Constitutional amendment regarding fundamental financial sector legislation has progressed
through Congress. Its passage would open the way for submission to Congress of a new Central
Bank law. As a caveat, however, it should be added that notwithstanding the solid progress made
on programmatic actions, there is still a substantial unfinished agenda ahead, looking at overall
financial sector reform needs. The present operation should be viewed as an important phase in
Brazil's long path towards reform and achievement of best practices in its financial system.
PROPOSED SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION - OBJECTIVES
AND SCOPE
6.    The proposed second financial sector adjustment operation would lend continued support
to the broad-based and comprehensive financial sector reform program pursued by the authorities
and supported by the Bank through a first programmatic loan in 2001, encompassing issues of
expanded access and increased efficiency of financial intermediation, increased bank soundness,
reduction of payments system risk and greater minority participation in capital markets. The
loan would give particular recognition to sustained progress achieved with all programmatic
reform areas covered in the first operation, and to the acceleration in implementation of difficult
reforms concerning federal banks which were beyond the scope of the first operation. Through
its support for a strengthened and environmentally sound financial system, the loan would help
to anchor poverty reduction in Brazil with sustained and crisis-free economic growth, thus aiding
the long term alleviation of poverty. The ongoing and comprehensive reform program of the
Page 2



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
government, supported by the Bank, is presented in matrix form in Annex 1. Over the medium
term, the Program's goals are:
* Separating government development policy from commercial banking;
* Enhancing transparency and financial soundness of both public and private banks;
*  Broadening access to financial services, especially for the poor;
*  Increasing efficiency and depth of financial intermediation; and
* Rationalizing financial sector legislation and regulation
7.    Based on this framework, reforms supported by the present loan comprise the following
broad areas:
(i) Broad progress on virtually all major fronts as envisaged in the first operation.
8.    Especially noteworthy are significant landmark changes that improve access to
underserved markets as more fully described in paragraphs 25 to 30 below. Equally important
are improvements in the process of financial intermediation dealing with contract enforcement
and risk mitigation. On the other side of the ledger, one measures of efficiency, spreads, have
been stubbornly high, due to a variety of factors including macro phenomena (described further
in paras. 47-50). Reforms supported by the first programmatic loan comprised actions to (i)
increase access to and raise efficiency in financial intermediation; (ii) promote the soundness of
the banking system and its defenses against financial crisis by enhancing the effectiveness of
bank regulation and supervision and improving bank failure resolution, the deposit insurance
system, and contingency planning; (iii) enhance transparency, promoting good governance, and
strengthening the regulator in securities markets; and (iv) protect the safety and soundness of the
financial system through payments systems reforms intended to reduce systemic risks and
safeguard the Central Bank from exposure to loss in the settlement of payments (for details see
Report No. P-7448-BR of April 26, 2001 proposing the First Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan).Within the Bank program envisaged in the first operation, there is progress in
all major areas (detailed in Part V of this report).
(ii) Public bank recapitalization, restructuring and privatization, encompassing the
difficult initiation of reform and restructuring of the Federal banks, as well as extension
and consolidation of restructuring and privatization of state-owned public banks. First
stage reforms at Federal banks include the restoration to health of their balance sheets,
recognition of losses incurred due to the implementation of government mandated
programs and establishment of a mechanism for transparent budgetary payment for any
required future transfers, permitting the unbundling of government and commercial
objectives. A second follow up stage of reform is underway which envisages the adoption
of strategic plans to raise efficiency and profitability, strengthen internal governance and
improve internal cost accountability, information systems and controls.
9.    In June 2001 the federal government took the unprecedented step of announcing
major steps towards the clean up of the balance sheets of federal banks, recognizing losses
accumulated for years in their portfolios, partially due to credits extended at the behest of the
Page 3



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Federal government. These measures followed the first rigorous inspection of these institutions
by Central Bank supervisors, under its new Global Consolidated Inspection program. Balance
sheet restructuring will now bring the banks into compliance with the Central Bank regulations
on capital adequacy as well as a series of recently issued prudential guidelines including loan
classification and provisioning, public sector lending and market risk. The loan would also give
credit for the near completion of the state and municipal bank restructuring and privatization
program, established under the PROES program, which required states and municipalities whose
banks were largely insolvent to federalize, restructure, privatize, transform or liquidate such
institutions. The program has been applied to 44 out of the 47 state-owned banks that existed at
the inception of PROES. Of these 44, 10 have been liquidated, 10 privatized (including the
landmark privatization of Banespa, the very large state bank of Sao Paulo, auctioned end-2000,)
5 restructured, and 16 converted into development agencies. After a gap of nearly a year,
privatizations have accelerated again, with another three privatizations in November 2001,
December 2001 and January 2002. Four remaining privatizations are under preparation (see
Annex 2), and a fifth state owned institution has also applied for inclusion in the privatization
program in 2002.
(iii) Progress in legal reforms pertaining to the financial sector, including the passage
of a landmark revision of the Corporate Law enhancing governance in publicly held
enterprises and thus encouraging share ownership.
10.   The long-awaited reforms of the Corporate law were finally approved by Congress on
September l9th and signed by the President on October 31st. An accompanying bill to enhance
the independence of the Securities Commission was also passed, as a Decree Law, at the same
time (and subsequently converted into Law 10411 on February 26, 2002). The passage of these
laws marks a major improvement in the access to capital market participation for minority
shareholders, and hence should lead to a deepening of Brazil's capital markets and availability
of capital for the enterprise sector. Amendments to the CVM law increase the independence of
the CVM and strengthen the regulatory framework for securities markets.
11.   Meanwhile, an amendment to Article 192 of the Constitution has progressed further
through Congress and its approval is awaited. At present the Constitution requires the financial
system to be governed by a single law, thus precluding the possibility of independent legislative
initiatives regarding various financial system regulators. The amendment was approved by the
Senate and by specialized congressional committees in the summer of 2001. The full House vote
is awaited in 2002. Following the expected passage of this amendment, a draft new Central Bank
law will be presented to Congress.
IMF RELATIONS AND THE JOiNT FSAP
12.   The IMF has supported Brazil's overall adjustment program since 1998 under two stand-
by agreements, the most recent of which was signed in September 2001 and is due to expire in
December 2002. Brazil has been successfully implementing this program to generate primary
surpluses that are consistent with a sustainable public sector net debt path. Brazil's fiscal
performance exceeded its public sector primary surpluses targets of 3.1 percent, 3.25 percent,
and 3.35 percent of GDP respectively for 1999, 2000, and 2001. The target for 2002 is 3.5
Page 4



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
percent and is expected to be met. These targets provide the overall fiscal framework for the
proposed PFSECAL.
13.   Throughout the implementation of the IMF stand-by agreements, the Bank and
Fund are in regular consultations on the adjustment program, and there is close
collaboration.' The Bank will continue to monitor macroeconomic policies in parallel, including
fiscal policies and management, together with the authorities and in coordination with the IMF.
It is expected that early identification of possible areas of concern will lead to corrective actions
by the Government, as appropriate, thus ensuring a satisfactory macroeconomic situation for the
effective implementation of the program supported by the PFSECAL.
14.   During the first phase of the financial sector reform program and in the early stages of the
second phase, the IMF supported the Government on macroeconomic policies. The Bank,
building on ongoing support to the authorities through Technical Assistance lending and non-
lending services, has supported the Government on structural sector reforms, including
those under the proposed Loan. In particular, the Bank has supported the Central Bank over an
extended period of time in improving banking supervision and strengthening the banking safety
net. Bank assistance will be extended through the Bank's new Technical Assistance lending to
Brazil's securities regulator and to the non-bank sector.
15.   More active collaboration in the financial sector is now growing. The 2000 Basle
Core Principle Report on banking supervision was jointly prepared. And at the request of the
government, a major Financial Sector Assessment of Brazil was initiated in March 2002, and is
continuing over the summer of 2002, jointly staffed by the IMF and the Bank. The exhaustive
assessment of vulnerabilities undertaken in the FSAP could valuably contribute to the eventual
design of a third phase operation.
IFC INVOLVEMENT IN BRAZIL' S FiNANCL4L SECTOR
16.   The IFC has supported a recent line of credit to two of Brazil's two premier private banks
Itau and Unibanco, in the amounts of US$100m and US$150m respectively, with another
US$250 million in syndications. These were approved in December 2001 and will strengthen the
project finance capabilities of these banks. Onlending is expected to focus primarily on providing
long term resources to enhance the provision of power and water, through the services of mid-
size companies. An equity investment was earlier approved (FY2001) to Bradesco Templeton for
US$20m for establishing a mutual fund for investment in Good Governance companies. The
total size of the fund is expected to be US$100m. However while approved by the IFC's Board,
the fund is not yet operational. Earlier operations include a line of credit to Bradesco of US$42m
in FY97 and also, an equity investment in Cibrasec (Companhia Brasileira de Securitiza(do), a
private sector entity helping build Brazil's secondary market for real-estate backed securities.
Upcoming operations include a Tier-2 facility in the private bank BBA, which would take the
form of a partial guarantee, for US$50m, which would provide the credit enhancement required
I Over the past three years, there have been several jointly staffed Bank /Fund financial sector missions. Mutual
consultations have been held in the context of the preparation of the IMF Staff report (currently for the 2001 Article
IV Consultation), and the World Bank Country Economic Memorandum for Brazil (ongoing).
Page 5



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
improve the terms at which the bank could issue paper. IFC is also planning an investment in a
microfinance institution, RioCred.
IDB INVOLVEMENT
17.   Consultations have been maintained with the IDB, in the area of their financial sector
operations in Brazil. The IDB has recently concluded a major line of credit to Brazil's BNDES
bank, of US$900 million (November 28, 2001), focused on loans to small entrepreneurs, with the
objective of generating employment and raising the income of poorer segments. This follows two
earlier loans for the BNDES, under a package of emergency operations in 1998 (consisting of
two parallel loans of US$1.lbillion and US$1.2 billion), destined for small and medium sized
enterprises, and one prior operation in 1995. The IDB lines of credit are mostly onloaned through
BNDES through its network of lines of credit with the rest of the banking system, via the
FINAME subsidiary of BNDES which focuses its operations on small and medium enterprises.
The 1DB has also directly supported the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, for its microentrepreneur
support program known as the 'CrediAmigo' (with a loan of US$150 million on January 1, 2001,
and a follow up loan of US$30 million on January 9, 2002). IDB is also in the process of
preparing a grant of around US$2m in technical assistance for Brazil's securities commission,
the CVM.
H. LINKS TO POVERTY REDUCTION
BRAZIL's OVERALL TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN POVERTY REDUCTION
18.   The Government remains unwavering in its commitments to the objective of reducing
Brazil's rate of extreme poverty by 50 percent by the year 2015, recognizing that essential
prerequisites for the achievement of poverty targets are fiscal stabilization, macroeconomic
stability and the achievement of broad-based growth, combined with appropriately targeted
social policies and increased participation of the poorest segments in public decisions. World
Bank analysis shows that the Govemment's poverty reduction goal can be achieved through a
combination of 4.5 percent annual growth, continued increases in education, and further
improvements in other social policies. The government's positive achievements in short-term
measures of poverty during 1999 and 2000 are consistent with good growth performance during
this period. Equally, the sustained achievement of poverty reduction in the present period will
depend critically on continued macroeconomic stability.
19.   Targeted strategies and social policies for poverty reduction span a number of areas;
investments in the poor through better education, health as well as improved access to physical
capital through land reform, enhanced access to credit for small entrepreneurs and small farmers,
and enhanced social protection including social assistance and transfer payments. World Bank
financed projects support several elements of this poverty reduction strategy, backed by the
Bank's program of policy advisory work. Two large reports on urban as well as rural poverty in
Brazil were completed over 2001, and ongoing work for state economic memoranda in the
Page 6



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
poorer northeastern states of Piauf, Maranhao, Rio Grande do Norte and Ceara will include
investigations of state level actions for targeted poverty reduction.
DIRECT AND INDIRECT IMPACT ON POVERTY REDUCTION OF FINANCIAL STRENGTH AND STABILITY
20.    The case for poverty reduction through financial sector strengthening rests upon a series
of factors. First of all, expected reforms would have a positive impact on economic growth,
which is one of the largest single factors impacting upon poverty reduction. As discussed in
detail in documentation for the first financial sector programmatic adjustment loan to Brazil,
there is a large body of empirical evidence demonstrating positive links between financial depth
and soundness and economic growth2, and Brazil-specific historical evidence on an inverse
relation between growth and poverty.3 Much recent international evidence shows that the poor
fully participate in growth, in most countries, although the extent may be affected by the initial
distribution of wealth.
21.    Second, a strengthened financial system, as supported by the proposed loan, will impact
upon poverty reduction through the reduction of volatility and provision of a cushion
against economic crises. As argued at the commencement of the present series of programmatic
loans for Brazil's financial systems, financial volatility impacts particularly negatively upon
poverty because (i) shallow domestic financial markets magnify international credit and output
slowdowns, impacting especially adversely on the poor, who are the least able to withstand even
small fluctuations in income and savings. (ii) In addition, financial crises typically entail huge
fiscal costs that crowded out social spending. In the case of Brazil, the crisis of 1995 had a fiscal
cost of about 13 percent of GDP.4 (iii) Financial crises raise the risk of a return to inflationary
finance, a form of taxation that is typically borne disproportionately by those in lower income
brackets. (iv) At a more basic level, major crises can lead to serious financial system
disintermediation, capital flight and an erosion of confidence which can be a setback to growth
2 World Bank Report No. P7448-BR; April 26,2001, on the First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
A recent exhaustive survey of literature on this issue may be found in Paul Holden and Vassili Prokopenko, 2001
'Financial Development and Poverty Alleviation: Issues and Policy Implications for Developing and Transition
Countries'. IMF working Paper WP/01/160. Bank studies demonstrating links between financial depth and
soundness and economic growth include Robert G. King and Ross Levine, 1993, Finance and Growth: Schumpeter
Might be Right. World Bank, Policy Research Working Paper 1083; and Thorsten Beck, Ross Levine, and Norman
Loayza, 1999, 'Finance and the Sources of Growth', World Bank, Policy Research Working Paper 2057.
3 As cited in the first programmatic loan, the impact of growth on poverty reduction is supported by extensive
research, including Gallup, John Luke; Radelet, Steven; and Warner, Andrew, "Economic Growth and the Income of
the Poor", Harvard Institute for International Development, November 1998; Roemer, Michael and Gugerty, Mary
Kay, "Does Economic Growth Reduce Poverty", Harvard Institute for International Development, March 1997.
International evidence examined in David Dollar and Aart Kraay, (2000) "Growth is Goodfor the Poor"
demonstrates that the poor benefit from growth, a finding also endorsed by the recent World Development Report
(2001)
4Fiscal costs of banking crises have been very large in several countries, ranging from about 4 percent of GDP in
the year of the crises to as much as 50 percent in the 1999 Indonesia crisis. See World Bank, Finance for Growth,
December 20, 2000 and Honohan and Klingebiel, Controlling the Fiscal Costs of Banking Crisis, September 2000
and Caprio and Klingebiel, Bank Insolvencies: Cross Country Experience, July 1996.
Page 7



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
for years.5 Recent events in Argentina and the heightened possibility' of regional contagion of
crises in confidence emphasize the need to protect against external instability.
22.    Third, in addition to factors discussed in the first programmatic loan, appropriately
framed financial sector policies, particularly those affecting the poorer segments and small
and medium enterprises can also help to directly alleviate poverty through enhanced
employment and income generating activities for the poor. A recent study of 15 Latin American
countries using household survey data demonstrates that there is a huge presence of the poor in
microenterprises. The potential impact of better access to credit in Brazil is large: about 95
percent of registered firms in Brazil are enterprises with less than 100 workers and account for
about 46 percent of registered workers. Financial sector policies which are targeted specifically
at creating an enabling environment for lending to this segment, including areas such as credit
registries, credit bureaus and a modernized legal environment for micro credit, can directly
impact the reduction of inequality and poverty.6
POVERTY REDUCTION IN THE PROPOSED PROGRAM - EXPANDED ACCESS
23.    The government's financial sector reform program supported by the Bank would
positively affect poverty reduction through all three channels discussed above. Growth
inducing effects of the proposed program stem from many sources. Federal bank reform
measures require the removal of credit risk from certain operations managed by deposit taking
Federal banks (including so-called 'constitutional funds' and rural credit) as part of the
government's development policies and the introduction of fiscal transparency so that future
operations which carry out special policy mandates through the budgetary process. These
measures will lead to the containment of contingent fiscal liabilities and hence better fiscal
management and greater macro stability which is a growth prerequisite. The programmatic loan
also supports measures to increase intermediation efficiency through the reduction of costs of
intermediation, lowering of bank spreads through increased credit risk information and stronger
legal instruments to enforce credit contracts and reduce credit risk. It also supports reduced
payments risks, deeper capital markets and better banking supervision all of which will impact
positively upon the efficiency and cost of financial intermediation thus increasing real sector
productivity, fostering increased financial deepening, and hence growth.
24.    Enhanced and deeply entrenched protection against crises would be provided by several
interlocking elements of the program. First of all, several measures embodied in the first
programmatic loan address the reduction of the financial system's vulnerability to crises, in
particular, the ongoing strengthening of financial supervision, the improvements in the legal
framework for bankruptcy and bank failure resolution, and the launching of crisis contingency
5 It has been demonstrated that crises in Venezuela (1994), Mexico (1995), and Ecuador (1998) significantly
increased the incidence of poverty. See David De Ferranti and Guillermo Perry, Securing our Future in a Global
Economy (2000), Chapter 5, p. 78.
6 Glenn D. Westley (October 2001) 'Can Financial Market Policies Reduce Income Inequality?' Inter-American
Development Bank, Washington DC. These issues are being investigated in detail in an ongoing AAA task on
Access to Financial Services in Brazil, underway in the Bank's LCSFF group, and parallel studies are also being
undertaken on Mexico and Colombia, for the urban poor (see Annex 3).
Page 8



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
planning mechanisms. Second, a major new element is added in the present operation through
reforms underway at the public banks which have provided for the first time for the application
of standard prudential norms to such institutions, including requirements for capital adequacy
and loan loss provisioning, and the restoration to health of their balance sheets in accordance
with these norms. These measures have hugely reduced government vulnerability to potential
crises due to the lack of financial soundness of these largest of Brazil's financial institutions.
Given the fundamental role of these federal financial institutions in providing services to the
underserved segments (see Annex 3 for details), their financial strength provides a bulwark
against poverty impacts of potential financial crises. Finally, if achieved, the ambitious reform of
the amendment of Article 192 of the Constitution would pave the way for fundamental
rationalization of financial sector oversight. The consequent submission to Congress of the
Central Bank law would embody the first among a series of potential streamlinings of the
regulatory institutions, thus enhancing systemic oversight capacity.
25.   Apart from such indirect impacts upon poverty reduction, a new emphasis has been built
into the proposed second programmatic loan on measures that directly attack poverty
reduction through enhanced access to financial services for the poor and underserved segments
of the population. An in-depth dialogue has begun with authorities in Brazil on measures
pertaining to access to financial services, supported by a broad-based Bank analytical and
advisory activity (AAA) on this topic, which will help the government to investigate household
levels of access differentiated by income level, institutional participation in access, and the
policy infrastructure which differentially affects the access to financial services. Significant
ongoing work at the Central Bank, and in external institutions has been shared with the Bank and
incorporated in the program.
26.   A series of recent measures have been launched by the government to expand access
which are supported by the programmatic adjustment agenda.7 These include first, the special
investigation of issues relating to the expansion of microcredit in Brazil by the Conselho da
Comunidade Soliddria.8 Included among its four commissions on microfinance was a working
group under the leadership of the Central Bank which examined the legal framework for
microcredit. The Action Plan proposed by this group formed the basis for the revisions
made in the microfinance framework in July 2001, including permission to microfinance
enterprises to use lines of credit from financial institutions, operate nationwide, and set up
service outposts.9 The overall study prepared by the conmnissions and their key findings were
summarized in a document entitled "The Expansion of Microcredit in Brazil" (A Expansdo do
Microcr,Jdito no Brasil), released in October 2001.
27.   Second, Brazil took the bold step this year of auctioning of the postal franchise to the
banking sector in August 2001, in order to enable the extension of the network of provision
7Details are elaborated in Annex 3: 'Brazil - Access to Financial Services'.
8 The Comunidade Soliddria was established in 1995 with the objective of promoting citizen participation and
partnerships between the State and civil societies in the fight against poverty and social exclusion in Brazil. Its areas
of involvement include political debate on social themes. Funding is provided at the highest levels by the President's
office and under the present administration it has enjoyed the personal support of the First Lady.
9Resolution 2874 of the National Monetary Council of July 26, 2001.
Page 9



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
of financial services, through a national chain of financial service correspondent outposts. It was
awarded to Brazil's largest private bank, Bradesco, which won the exclusive right to distribute
financial services through each of the 5,532 agencies of the Brazilian post office, ECT (Empresa
Brasileira de Correios e Telegrafos). By the end of 2001, 1,000 post office agencies were
operational. In 2002, 1,600 additional agencies will be connected and the rest are expected
to be connected in 2003. Bradesco has undertaken to connect agencies located in municipalities
without banking service on a priority basis. There are an estimated 1,680 municipalities without
formal financial services in Brazil. Of these, about 4 million live in municipalities without a
bank, but with a post office. Moreover, ECT has a greater relative presence in the poor Northeast
area of Brazil than the banks.
28.   Third, new initiatives for support to microenterprises have also been launched by
through SEBRAE, ("Servi,o Brasileiro de Apoio As Micro e Pequenas Empresas"), through a
venture capital program and also through a program launched in October 2001, for both
technical assistance and credit to new and very small microfinance institutions. Through
SEBRAE, Brazil is also partnering the Bank Group's agenda of analytical work on financial
access via a survey of the needs of small and microenterprises, known as the Business Climate
survey (FACS), which will be coordinated by DEC, in close collaboration with the small
enterprise department of the IFC. The survey includes a substantial module on access to financial
services for microenterprises.
29.   A fourth significant development in the expansion of services for savers is the
government's new program to allow individual small savers to purchase government
bonds, through the internet, under its new Treasury Direct program. The initiative is pioneering
in Latin America, and has the double advantage of allowing a safe savings vehicle for small
savers, remunerated at market rates, while at the same time, allowing the government more
efficient mechanisms for tapping local debt markets.10 Issues began on January 7, 2002. Prior to
this, only banks and bond dealers with a minimum amount of R$50,000 could purchase
government bonds. The new scheme permits small investors with as little as R$200, or less
than US$100, to buy government bonds. Data on sales till early April indicate that the program
is achieving its goal of tapping small savings; a third of investors involved have invested less
than R$1,000, and almost two thirds of all investors have invested sums of below R$5,000.
30.   To boost competition, strengthen consumer rights, and improve disclosure, financial
institutions must provide more detailed account information to their clients, from April
2001. This includes information filed for the past two years including credit history, financing
operations, and average monthly balances. And to improve transparency on overdrafts accounts,
commercial banks must disclose more detailed information about financial fees and the amounts
charged on overdraft in monthly statements. Overall principles for fostering additional
transparency, discipline, competition and reliability on the part of financial institutions have been
spelled out in Banking Consumer Protection rules, which consolidate these principles."1
0 The Brazilian Treasury (Tesouro Nacional), (http://www.tesouro.fazenda.gov.br/tesouro-nacional) on December
12, 2001 issued Ordinance n° 554, which approved the regulation of the public offering of bonds to individuals.
Resolution 2878 of the National Monetary Council, of July 26, 2001.
Page 10



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
31.   In addition it should be pointed out that a number of actions in the overall program which
are also aimed at increasing efficiency of intermediation and strengthening financial institutions
also aim to foster and support expanded access. Examples are the measures taken to enhance the
information provided on small borrowers by the Credit Risk data base of the Central Bank,
measures taken to enhance secondary markets for housing through the introduction of
instruments for securitization of real estate credits, the Cedula de Credito Imobilidrio - CCI and
related measures.12 These would make the supply of credit larger, cheaper, and more available to
lower-income households and to micro, small and medium enterprises. And key actions in areas
such as securities markets, in the form of the passage of the Corporate and CVM laws, also
have their underpinnings in improved participation of minority shareholders in Brazil's
stock markets, i.e., increased access to capital markets for such persons.
III. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
32.   Starting in the early nineties, Brazil has adopted a comprehensive package of
economic reforms that has fundamentally transformed its economy. The reform package,
implemented in different stages, covered diverse areas ranging from trade and monetary
management to exchange rate policy and the creation of fiscal institutions that enhanced
credibility in the sustainability of public finances. The first stage, until 1992, involved trade
liberalization with average tariffs being lowered from 39 to 15 percent, flexibilization of capital
account transactions and establishment of the regional trade agreement, Mercosul. A second
stage of reform began with the Real Plan in 1994 and concentrated on monetary stabilization
with the most striking development being the reduction of inflation rates of the order of 5000
percent in mid-1994 to 6 percent in 2000. This reform stage also involved constitutional changes
that reduced earmarked expenditures and allowed fiscal policy to regain some flexibility. These
changes, plus a favorable external environment, brought about the end of chronic and high
inflation and an average annual growth rate of 4.2 percent in the 1992-1997 period.
Simultaneously, demand for foreign savings increased as the current account deficit went from
zero in the period 1990-1994 to a deficit of 4.2 percent of GDP in 1998. Following monetary
stabilization in 1994, the authorities undertook a series of further reforms including a large
privatization program and stabilization of the financial system.
33.   To reduce the vulnerability to external shocks and to ensure a sustainable debt path,
Brazil has, since 1998, undertaken ambitious and credible fiscal adjustment. Fiscal
adjustment lagged behind other elements of the reform program initially, but was implemented in
earnest after the Russia crisis in late 1998. Supported by an IMF program, the Government has
since complied with quarterly fiscal targets and consistently generated a consolidated primary
fiscal surplus of more than 3 percent of GDP. Government estimates suggest that the nominal
deficit in the twelve months until March 2002 amounted to 4.25 % of GDP. At the same time,
the institutional framework for fiscal management has been improved. In early 1999 authorities
in Brazil adopted a flexible exchange rate and an inflation-targeting framework. Among the
larger countries, only Mexico and Chile register larger cumulative growth since 1999, though
2Discussed further below in the section on credit contracts and their enforcement.
Page I 1



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
their volatility has also been large. Growth prospects have been enhanced due to reduced
vulnerability to both external and domestic shocks, achieved by smaller trade deficits and the
elimination of primary public sector deficits. The key elements to achieve these outcomes have
been the adoption of the floating exchange rate regime, the credible and permanent reduction in
the inflation rate, the tax increases, strict austerity of those expenditures directly under
governmental control and the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Law that supported
adjustment processes, especially at the sub national level.
34.   The positive outlook for Brazil that prevailed in early 2001 was dampened by the
international slowdown, recent events in Argentina, and a domestic energy crisis. After
growth of 4.5 percent in 2000, a similar performance was expected for 2001. Then intemational
demand began to soften as the result of the global slowdown. Events in Argentina and in
international capital markets led to depreciation and required a tightening of monetary policy to
contain the inflationary pressure resulting from the depreciation. Fiscal policies were tightened
to maintain public debt sustainability in the face of higher interest rates and a depreciated
currency.  Finally, a domestic energy crisis with electricity rationing further constrained
economic activity. The domestic slowdown resulting from all these factors together means that
GDP growth in 2001 was only 1.6 percent. As the result of the negative external and internal
shocks, sovereign bond spreads rose, and the real depreciated by almost 40 percent in the first
nine months of 2001. However, it recovered by 16 percent in the last quarter of 2001, so that
depreciation over the year as a whole was only 16 percent. Over 2002, rates have been broadly
steady, inclined towards mild appreciation of 0.2 percent in the first quarter.
35.   As the result of effective macroeconomic management and a swift policy response,
Brazil is expected to withstand the current turbulences with reduced growth but without
major disruptions. The Government has maintained effective macroeconomic management and
reacted to the shocks with an appropriate mix of monetary and fiscal tightening and continued
push for structural reforms, together with successful energy rationing.13 Fiscal policy has
remained robustly credible, with the primary surplus to end-December, at R$43.7 billion,
exceeding the year-end target by R$3.5 billion. The year end primary fiscal surplus was 3.7
percent of GDP. The signing of a new IMF 15-month Standby Arrangement on September 14
lent further credibility at a difficult time. And finally, the continued assured management of
challenging macroeconomic circumstances by authorities has been a key signal to the markets.
Reflecting regained market confidence and underlining the recent "decoupling" effect, sovereign
spreads have fallen, and the real has strengthened from a yearly low of 2.78 to the dollar in mid-
October back to 2.40 in early December. The outlook for 2002 includes a GDP growth rate of
2.5 percent (against 1.6 percent achieved in 2001), a steady inflow of foreign direct investment,
and a reduced current account deficit.
36.   Brazil's public debt and external financing requirements imply continuing
vulnerability to future shocks, but this vulnerability is expected to decline gradually over
time. As a result of the depreciation and the increase in interest rates, the ratio of net public debt
to GDP rose to 54.8 percent in October 2001, compared with 48.6 percent in October 2000.
Public debt to GDP declined somewhat by end 2001, to 53.5 percent. The year-end decline
13 Which has successfully been phased out following the resumption of rains and the regeneration of hydropower.
Page 12



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
reinforces the conclusion that earlier increases during the year resulted almost entirely from the
depreciation of the exchange rate, rather than loose fiscal policy. Of the R$124 billion increase in
net debt over the past twelve months, 76.2 percent was attributed to the weakening currency.
Moreover an estimated fifth of the increased public sector borrowing requirement in late 2001
was due to the acknowledgement of public debts known as 'skeletons', such as the public bank
debt write offs as well as worthless or illiquid securities in state-run pension funds. Such
measures reduced hidden fiscal liabilities and made the govemment's accounts more transparent.
37.   In response, and consistent with the credible fiscal stance adopted over the last three
years, the Government raised its primary surplus target to 3.5 percent of GDP, which
ensures a declining debt to GDP ratio under the worsened circumstances. Regarding the
external accounts, the trade balance has improved through a compression of imports in response
to the depreciation. A surplus in the trade balance is expected for 2002. FDI has declined from
its record levels in the past two years but remains substantial even after the events of September
11, estimated to reach about US$19 billion for 2001. Current projections include a gradual
improvement in the current account balance (which was US$23.2 billion in 2001, or 4.5 percent
of GDP) and in external debt indicators.
38.   Brazil has continued the structural reforms necessary to reduce the vulnerabilities
related to its large public debt and high external rmancing requirements and needs to
further pursue these on a continuing basis. Improvements in the institutional framework for
fiscal management continue with the effective implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility Law
and refinements of the Plano Plurianual (PPA). Further public sector pension reform remains a
key item on the agenda of structural fiscal reforms. Financial sector reforms are proceeding,
including a first phase of federal bank reform. The recent signing of the new Corporate Law is
expected to promote development of Brazil's capital market through improved corporate
governance. With respect to other growth-promoting reforms, measures are being taken to
address the regulatory weaknesses that have led to the current energy crisis. Congress has
recently approved important measures to flexibilize the labor code. Other important medium-
term reforms should include improvements in the efficiency of the tax system.
39.   At this time, we foresee adjustment lending for fiscal reforms, fmancial sector
reforms, and energy sector reforms within the CAS lending ceilings. Adjustment lending
would support effective and continuing structural reforms to address the key objectives of fiscal
stability and renewed growth and would contribute to Brazil's external financing requirements of
US$47 billion and the nominal public sector deficit of 3.4 percent of GDP in 2002. The external
financing requirement consists of a US$20 billion current account deficit and US$27 billion
amortization of medium and long term debt. Financing is planned to be met by US$19 billion of
foreign direct investment and at least US$5 billion public sector borrowing including multilateral
disbursements, disbursements from privatization and interest revenues and the remainder by
other private sector rollover financing. In line with the CAS ceilings, the Bank is presenting an
Energy Sector Adjustment Loan and a Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
in FY02, possibly followed by a Second Programmatic Fiscal Adjustment Loan in FY03.
40.   Unfavorable macroeconomic conditions drove inflation above its target band upper
limit of 6 percent. Inflation during 2001 was 7.67 percent, well above the 6 percent upper
ceiling, although there were improvements in the last quarter due to the containment of the
Page 13



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
energy crisis, a better than expected grain crop, and expected turnaround in the international
economy in 2002. Forecast inflation has been increased to 4.4 percent for 2002, an increase from
the level of 3.5 percent forecast a year ago. Baseline forecasts for 2003 have also increased to 2.8
percent, from 2.5 percent a year ago.
41.    Interest rates, which had exhibited a downward trend until early 2001, rose over
the year, as a response to deteriorating macroeconomic conditions including the depreciation
of the real in response to Argentine contagion and weaker international market sentiment after
September 11. The interbank SELIC rate was successively raised from 15.25 percent in January
2001 to 19 percent by July 2001. On September 21, the Central Bank was obliged to announce a
precautionary increase in reserve requirements on time deposits, of ten percent. 4 Reserve
requirements on demand deposits remain nominally unchanged at 45 percent, but their mode of
application grew stricter, increasing their impact on liquidity. Formerly, banks could deposit 60
percent of the amount due and deposit the remaining 40 percent in the following day. Now,
banks must deposit 80 percent of the required amount up front, and deposit 20 percent on the
following day. Additionally, the required shareholders equity formula for banks was modified to
increase the weight given to foreign exchange operations, thereby making it more costly for
banks to maintain any mismatch between foreign currency assets and liabilities. Interest rates are
high: real interbank rates are above 11 percent. 15 The base interest rate decline to adequate levels
is expected to occur only gradually over the medium term, particularly as improvements in fiscal
performance decrease the high levels of public sector indebtedness.
42.    But increases in bank spreads over 2001 are already being reversed with
improvements in macroeconomic conditions over early 2002.16 Signals of declining interest
rates in 2002 were made in February and March 2002 with successive small announcements of
declines in the interbank rate, by 25 basis points each, bringing the interbank rate down to 18.5
percent by end-March 2002. However, further cuts may be limited by oil price increases.
43.    Despite interest rate increases in 2001, credit growth continued, albeit at a slower
pace. Total bank credit, which had expanded at an annualized rate of about 20 percent in the last
months of 2000, slowed its growth to an average of below 10 percent in the twelve month period
ending October 2001, and further to 2.2 percent in the twelve months to February 2002. Overall
credit growth in 2001 was 4.2 percent. Retail credit expansion, which had surged to 70 percent a
year ago, slowed down to a twelve month average of 46.5 percent by end October 2001, and was
only 5.9 percent in the last three months of this period. Corporate lending was more resistant to
change, with a twelve month average increase of 34.5 percent, lower than the retail rate, but an
increase of 7.9 percent for the three months ending October; higher than the retail credit growth
rate.
14 Circular 3.062 of the Central Bank, of September 21, 2001. Reserve requirements on time deposits had been 30
percent at the start of 2000, and had been cut to zero only a year ago.
15 Average lending rates of financial institutions reached 65.8 percent per year in October 2001, increasing by 11
percentage points in the past twelve months. The average spread in October 2001 was 42.7 percent, declining to 39.9
percent in December but rising again to 41.8 percent in February 2002.
6 The disaggregation is discussed in a recent study of the Central Bank (Focus Report: Interest Rates and Banking
Spreads - December 11, 2001), which econometrically separates recent increases in interest spreads between
'conjunctural' or temporary factors, and underlying or 'persistent' factors.
Page 14



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
IV. BRAzIL's FINANCIAL SYSTEM - RECENT EVOLUTION AND SELECTED ISSUES
44.    A discussion of the broad structural aspects of a substantial spectrum of Brazil's financial
system has been provided in the documentation for the first programmatic adjustment loan.'7 The
present memorandum therefore focuses primarily on describing evolution over the past one year
and evaluating recent progress, in those areas of the financial system included in the proposed
operation. Selective depth and detailed treatment is given to specific areas of the financial system
which were not included or given less prominence in the first loan; in particular, the public banks
(where achieved and proposed reforms are discussed in Annex 2), and measures pertaining to
overall access to financial services (Annex 3).
45.   As the sections below show, overall progress with regard to the actions envisaged as part
of the programmatic financial reforms is substantial and in some areas actions have been taken in
program areas which exceed expectations and further deepen reform achievements. However, it
must be remembered that notwithstanding important actions taken, there is in many cases still a
long way to go. It is expected that a more detailed diagnostic of risks and vulnerabilities will be
revealed by the FSAP program, paving the way for incorporation into a third stage of
programmatic reform.
OVERALL FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION
46.    A number of factors potentially impact upon the depth of overall financial intermediation,
identified to be shallow in Brazil in absolute as well as relative terms. Specific factors identified
in the first PFSECAL to have relatively greater significance in the context of Brazil included
high real interest rates and high spreads, high rates of taxation, costly systems for the
enforcement of credit contracts, the limited availability of adequate and reliable credit reporting
and debtor information, and a poor legal framework for the resolution of both enterprise
bankruptcy and bank failure. The sections below discuss progress over the past year in these
areas.
Interest Rates and Spreads
47.   Brazil's real interest rates are acknowledged by its authorities to be high, and are the
subject of constant and ongoing monitoring and analysis by its Central Bank, which has an
ongoing major research project under a large working group on interest rate movements, both
levels and spreads.18 High real lending rates have been attributed to a combination of factors,
some largely exogenous to financial institutions, such as the 'crowding out' effect of Brazil's very
high government borrowing requirements, high indirect taxation, forced investments and high
directed credit ratios, unremunerated reserve requirements and overhead costs thrice as high as in
OECD countries; as well as endogenous reasons such as loan-loss provisions, and inefficiency-
7 Report No. P7448-BR; April 26,2001.
18 The research group in the Central Bank in Sao Paulo which studies the issue of interest rate spreads has now
brought out two successive annual reports: 'Juros e Spread Bancdrio no Brasil'- November 2000 and November
2001, at http://www.bc.gov.br/ftp/jurospreadl 12001.pdf
Page 15



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
and cost-based causes. High overheads in turn have been attributed to limited competitive
pressures and the high costs of contract enforcement and debtor monitoring.
48.   Until early 2001, the favorable macroeconomic environment of lower interest rates and
non-inflationary growth contributed to the lowering of both rates and spreads. 19 As of December
2000, average nominal lending rates were around 51 percent (down from 62.3 percent at the end
of 1999) while average spreads were about 35 percentage points (also down nine percent from
the previous year), with spreads for corporate lending at 19 percentage points and for consumer
lending at 51 percentage points.20 Towards the end of 2001, average lending rates for financial
institutions reached 66 percent, increasing by 11 percent over the last twelve months. Average
spreads showed a similar increase rising to almost 47 percent. The recent increase in the reserve
requirements on time deposits from zero to ten percent is a reversal from the reduction last year
of unremunerated reserve requirements on sight deposits from 75 to 45 percent and on time
deposits to zero. However, these were measures the government was obliged to take, in an effort
to tighten monetary policy in response to the potentially inflationary impact of this year's
currency depreciation. Although efforts to decrease interest rates and spreads have clearly
been less successful over the last months this can be ascribed largely to macroeconomic
volatiity and uncertainty triggered by external events. Moreover, recent rate cuts in February
and March 2002 signal the government's intention to reduce rates as rapidly as is consistent with
macroeconomic policy. Analysis by the Central Bank of recent increases in the short-term bank
spread show that the upward trend of 2001 is largely due to temporary factors and that
underlying trend behavior is not affected.21 A second paper exploring the bank-level variance of
ex-ante interest rate spreads in Brazil has underlined the importance of the macroeconomic
environment as well as operating costs, as determinants of interest rate spreads.22 Despite these
efforts it must be acknowledged that in absolute terms, spreads in Brazil remain very high and
that a reduction in spreads must remain prominent on the agenda for future reform.
49.   Authorities are making efforts to foster competition in interest rates through enhanced
disclosure. When the project on interest rates and banking spreads was released, the Central
Bank started to disclose basic information on interest rates charged by financial institutions on its
website. It also introduced requirements to increase the quality and the degree of detail of this
information.
50.   A proportion of credit in Brazil is still directed by the government, in the sense that
interest rates are controlled, at positive but below market rates, and also that there are selective
credit policies which earmark credit for specific sectors of the economy, leading to distortions of
interest rates. Since June 2000, however, efforts have been made to track the proportion of
directed credit, and there has been a significant decline in its proportion over the last two
years, from close to 55 percent in June 2000 to around 40 percent by end-2001. The federal
19 Garcfa-Cantera et al. (2001) attributed much of the reductions of the 2000 lending spread to the reduction in the
level and volatility of interest rates.
20 Boletim do Banco Central do Brasil - Annual Report. Various Issues
21 Banco Central, FOCUS report of December 11, 2001.
22 Afanasieff, Villa Lhacer and Nakane (2001): 'The Determinants of Bank Interest Spread in Brazil', Banco
Central do Brasil, nimeo. The paper also shows that foreign banks have lower interest spreads than domestic banks.
Page 16



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
banks have been primary vehicles for directed credit policies and ongoing efforts at federal bank
reform are likely to help to further reduce this proportion.23 Important initiatives are now under
discussion in the context of reform of credit directed towards housing via savings deposits. A
modification to Law 4591 on the Sistema Financeira de Habita,ao is under preparation and is
expected to be ready in the next few months, which will eliminate the tax advantage given to
savings deposits, but instead remunerate them at market rates, thus reducing financial distortions
and also lifting the requirement that these deposits be used for housing finance. Savings from
the elimination of the tax break will instead be used to pay directly for low income housing.
Taxation
51.    Despite macroeconomic turbulence, the Central Bank has continued to try to reduce
overhead costs (through improving contract enforcement, better credit / debtor information, and
measures to foster competition) and through efforts to formulate a rationalization of tax policy
towards the financial sector. The Brazilian tax system exhibits several distortionary taxes on both
financial institutions and transactions. Two social security taxes (COFINS and PIS) are
calculated on the basis of total revenues, adjusted for funding costs, rather than profits. The
CPMF is collected on virtually all financial transactions, but there are exemptions for some types
of institutions. Further, the IOF is collected on loans and short-term foreign exchange
operations.24 Although of less significance than the CPMF, its discretionary character, with rates
set by the Central Bank, leaves the door open for distortionary effects.
23 Two reasons for this are the transfer of a large volume of government credit on the books of the federal banks to
the Empresa Gestora de Ativos (EMGEA), an asset management and recovery agency; and also, an apparent increase
in external private credit due to the devaluation of the real over the past twelve months.
24 However in October 1999, the government lowered the IOF tax from 6 to 1.5 percent for individuals (the same
rate as for corporations).
Page 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
,  -      ' , -: ~,  Taxation of Financial Institutions and Transacions in Brazil         r
Direct taxation of financial institutions: This comprises the income tax or 25 percent and CSLL (social contribution
on profits) of 9:percent. Note that this is not the same as income tax on equity and fixed income mutual funds, which
-:are 20 percent and 10 percent respectivelv.            -              -
'iCOFINSIPIS (social security taxes): 3 percent and'0.65 percent, respectively. For financial institutions the.base for'
',these taxes aie total revenues,minus interest rare-csts.;-           ',.
Municipal Tax,on Serivices (ISS): The rate varies across' municipalities but in general;is around 5 percent. The}
basis forthis tax is-also total reveoue. --                             .              -       ,
r CPMF (Coninbuifdo Provis6ria sobre MovimentaVdo'Financeira): This,tax is applied to all financial'transactions:,
-'and is currently,0.38 percent of the transaction amount.' Certain mutual fund investments and'certain;institutions are
exempted, 'although pension funds are not'exempted. Coritributons into the funds :by individual investors are not
exempt: 
IOF (Imposto sobre Opera(Oes Fina ceiros): can be imposed on foreign'exchange transaction,.fixed an'd variable
rate securities and credit operations. Currently, 'the tax"on fixed-income securities varies between 0.96 percent of the
return for one-day investments to-0 perceot for investments-over 29 days, with toe rate decreasing'with the number
of days. Inter-bank transactions are exempL On credits the tax rate is 0.0041 percent of the loan amount per day.
%with a maxirum of 1.5 percent of the total loan amount, i.e. on loais with' maturity of:one 'year, orr more the rate is
1.5. percent. The'Central Barik can ,raise'the daily rate 'up to. 1.5 percent.- OF 1 also ,applies to insurance premium.
payments.' '  -"
Reserve Requirements and Directed Credit
Demand deposits.     45 percent reserve requirernent
25 percent'directed credit to agricultural sector
Timne deposits:      10 percent
Savings deposits:    65 percent directed to' housing loans.
Source: Cenual Bank.  -   -.                         . ..
52.    The working group of the Central Bank on interest rates and spreads focused particular
attention, in 2001, to the issue of the taxation of financial institutions and transactions and their
impact on spreads. Two working papers were issued on the role of the CPMP in the Brazilian
financial system, and made publicly available on the Central Bank's website.25 The reports
suggest that the CPMF results in fewer checks being issued, less financial transactions,
especially stock market transactions (thus decreasing its own base), higher interest rate spreads
and higher interest rates on government bonds (thus partly offsetting the revenue gain from the
CPMF).26 Given that the CPMF is not charged on transactions by mutual funds or on consumer
credit companies the tax encourages a shift away from sources of financing subject to CPMF
towards those which are exempted. While accepting that the CPM is necessary for fiscal
reasons, at the present juncture, its medium term efficiency issues need to be addressed. In April
2002, the proposal for the extension of the CPMF, in the form of a Constitutional
Amendment, was voted upon and passed by the Lower House of Congress, and embedded
25 The studies are: Impactos Economicos da CPMF: Teoria e Evidencia, by Pedro H. Albuquerque (June 2001), and
Os Efeitos da CPMF Sobre a IntermediaVdo Financeira, by Sergio Mikio Koyama and Marcio I. Nakane (July
2001).
26 Checks can be endorsed only once, but are nevertheless passed on - a common practice in Brazil. The Central
Bank expects this practice to go down after introduction of the RTGS payment system.
Page 18



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
in this bill is the exemption of CPMF for stock trades. This represents a major advance for
the rationalization of financial system taxation. Senate votes on the Bill are expected shortly.
53.   Given its lower fiscal importance (less than 2 percent of total revenue), less attention has
been devoted to the IOF, although the variance in its rate depending on loan maturity and the
discretionary character of the tax, are potentially distortive. The possibility of charging different
rates on different credit operations (as was the case until 1999) raises the risk of credit market
segmentation. IOF rates are regulated by the Central Bank.
54.   Also in April 2002, the government announced its intention to phase out the PIs and
COFINS; in a two stage reform which would transform the 0.65 percent PIS tax into a value-
added tax within 90 days and the 3 percent COFINS tax within 14 months. Given the fact
that until now these were levied on total revenues, i.e., a la cascade, the proposed new structure
would be more efficient for financial sector and other transactions.
55.   So far, the analysis of taxation and the financial sector undertaken by authorities in Brazil
has given relatively low attention to the impact of implicit taxation. Two critical vehicles through
which implicit taxation impacts upon the financial system are through (i) the high level of
unremunerated reserves and second through high requirements for directed credit. With regard to
the former, reserves were high in absolute terms even at the start of 2001, despite the major rate
reduction in 2000. Although also used as an instrument for monetary policy tightening, as in
September 2001, remuneration of reserves could help to level the playing field between different
types of financial instruments. Second, current policies of directed credit, which approximates
around 40 percent of total bank lending, also constitutes an implicit tax on the banking sector,
also adversely affecting overhead costs.
Financial Sector - Broad-Based Legislative Changes
56.   A recent Constitutional Amendment has great significance for financial sector
legislation in a number of areas. Constitutional Amendment 32 of September 11, 2001,
changed the rules for Medidas Provis6rias or provisional measures. Medidas Provis6rias are
instruments which can be issued by Presidential order and which have the force of law, until
rejected or adopted as laws by Congress. While sometimes useful for the speedy introduction of
legislation, in view of Congressional backlogs, they have the disadvantage of unclear legislative
sanction, due to the need, until the recent amendment for reenactment at frequent intervals to
maintain their validity. They are thus sometimes limited in acceptance, due to underlying
concerns about reversibility or non-renewal. Constitutional Amendment No. 32 provides that
new Medidas Provis6rias can only be extended once (for a total of 120 days). They have to be
voted by Congress during this period of 120 days, or the parliamentary agenda is held up. It also
clarifies that existing provisional measures may only be revoked by new provisional measures or
voted upon by Congress, which is no different from the rules regarding the revocation of laws in
general. Accordingly, former provisional measures, which already were considered as law
according to the Constitution, but which needed to be continuously re-enacted by the President,
will now be in force as law indefinitely. Given that a large number of law regulating economic
life and the financial system are in the form of a 'Medida Provisoria', the effective conversion of
existing Medida Provisorias into laws is an important legislative development.
Page 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
57.    One significant effect on the rmancial system of the Constitutional Amendment
pertaining to decree laws is the effective voiding of the Usury Law for institutions deemed
to be within the National Financial System. This historic law (Decree 22626 of President
Vargas in 1933) imposed a 12 percent annual cap on interest, and also, prohibited the charging
of interest on interest (i.e., the "capitalization" of interest charges) accrued during a period of less
than one year. This prohibition had been confirmed in several legal precedents, including its
application to financial institutions, until the passage of the law on financial institutions
(4595/64).27 Although the latter exempted financial institutions from the interest rate cap,
ambiguity was introduced again with the 1988 constitution which asked for a 12 percent cap on
real interest rates. Meanwhile, the capitalization of interest remained. This was finally lifted for
the operations of financial institutions, including in periods of less than one year, in March 31,
2000, according to Article 5 of Medida Provis6ria No. 2170-36 (re-enactment of provisional
measure No. 1963-19). With the passage of Amendment 32, this provisional measure is now in
force indefinitely and enjoys full legal status, with the historic result of rendering the usury law
irrelevant for formal financial institutions. Note however that the amendment of Article 192
would still be needed for the complete elimination of the 12 percent real interest cap, which is
currently still applicable to non-financial institutions, including for example the non-profit
entities operating in microfinance, or factoring companies which are outside the purview of
Central Bank supervision.
58.    Constitutional Amendment 32 has also had important consequences for an
important legal contract, the bank credit bond (Cedula do Cridito Bancdrio) also treated in a
provisional measure issued prior to the enactment. The bank credit bond was originally
established by Medida Provis6ria No. 1925, of October 14, 1999, which was continuously re-
enacted until the passage of Constitutional Amendment 32 of 2001. At the time of passage of the
Amendment, the bank credit bond was regulated by Medida Provis6ria No. 2160-25, of August
23, 2001, which became law from end-December 2001. Although the bank credit bond is
a convenient and safe credit transaction for financial institutions, it has been rarely used due to
the uncertainties of the conversion into law of the provisional measure which regulated these
bonds. Currently, there is no reason for any uncertainty due to the fact that the relevant
provisional measure has the force of law indefinitely, according to Amendment 32, and it is
hoped that the application of this instrument will now rise.28
59.    As flagged in the First Loan, a number of major reforms of the financial system have
been has been hitherto blocked by the absence of enabling legislation, due to constraints imposed
by Article 192 of the 1988 Constitution. This article had left a large number of complex but basic
financial sector issues (i.e. Central Bank independence, foreign bank entry, deposit insurance,
interest rate ceilings and regulatory and supervisory arrangements) to be regulated by a single
27 In Smsmula (Supreme Court decision) 121 of 1963, the Supreme Court decided that the limit on capitalization of
interest would apply to even financial institutions. The law on financial institutions (4595 of 1964) however
achieved the exemption of the 12 percent interest rate cap for financial institutions, on the ground that the Central
Bank could put ceilings on financial institutions. This was confirmed by Suimula 596 (of December 15, 1976). But
the restriction against capitalization remained until the passage of Medida Provis6ria 1925 of 2000.
28 The importance of the Cedula with regard to bank credit is discussed further below, in the context of the
importance of contract enforcement.
Page 20



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
enabling law (Lei Complementar) at a later date.29 Despite several attempts since 1988 at
regulating Article 192, ultimately a lack of legislative consensus blocked progress. The passage
of a Constitutional Amendment to permit regulation of Article 192 through a set of laws
accelerated towards the end of 2001. Senate approval as well as approval by specialized
subcommittees of the House have been secured.
60.    The amendment would also enable the presentation to Congress of a 'minimalist' but
powerful new Central Bank Law, which institutionalizes the Central Bank's monetary policy
autonomy and accountability; and could be as far-reaching as the Lei de Responsibilidade Fiscal
is for fiscal policy autonomy. This brief law will specify the objective(s) the Central Bank should
pursue and establish operational autonomy of the Central Bank in pursuing the objective(s).
Credit Contracts and Expanded Access to Housing Finance
61.    As noted in the documentation for the first Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to Brazil,
the inefficiency of the legal system and poor enforcement of credit contracts has contributed to
high overhead costs of financial transactions. One of the government's contributions towards
improving contract enforcement was through the introduction of the Aliena,do Fiduci6ria
instrument (fiduciary alienation), through the creation of a trust, similar to chattel mortgage);
originally introduced in 1969 (Decree Law 911, Article 66) for consumer, especially car
financing. Unlike other secured credit (and as in conditional sale and in leasing contracts) the
ownership and title is transferred to a trust, and the creditor has the first claim on the assets of the
trust.30 In the case of default, the creditor can get a search-and-seize order to consolidate title
and possession. It has worked relatively well for car financing and has also been used in business
financing.
62.   Fiduciary alienation was also introduced for real estate financing in the context of efforts
to improve the Real Estate Financial System in 1997 (Law 9514 on the Sistema Financeiro
Imobilidrio, SFI). Although not widely used in this context, due to other difficulties in the
launching of real estate reforms, the Supreme Court upheld it as constitutional in 1998. Wider
use of the Aliena,do began in the first half of 2001, when the Caixa Econ6mica Federal first
began to use it systematically, as part of its improved credit risk management policy, in tandem
with credit scoring This inspired other housing lenders to also issue contracts based on this
instrument. Most banks have not yet tested this new collateral but their preliminary feedback
seems to be positive. It should also be noted that out-of-the-court mortgage foreclosure
proceedings have been upheld as constitutional and would also permit faster debt.
63.    A recent Medida Provisdria (No. 2223 of September 4, 2001) extends the use of the
Alienafdo in the context of housing finance, by permitting new housing related securities,
which can be backed by real estate credits collateralized by the traditional mortgage or the newly
created fiduciary alienation (Aliena,do Fiducidria). The new credit instrument, the "Letra de
29 An ordinary law needs a simple majority vote of persons present for passage; a Lei Complementar requires a
simple majority of all members (lower or upper house), not only members present and finally, a constitutional
amendment requires a two thirds majority of two sessions of all members.
30 Title is transferred to a trust, technically, but the creditor has the first claim on the assets of the trust.
Page 21



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Cr6dito Imobilirio - LCI" may be issued by commercial banks and universal banks in addition
to the Caixa, and also by savings and loans institutions and real estate credit societies. The
additional guarantee made of collateralized real estate credits should enhance the bond rating,
and therefore reduce the costs of funds of the lending institution. The LCI significantly is
allowed to contain monthly indexation clauses (not limited to the TR index that is now lower
than inflation) in order to be more attractive for investors. These can be used to finance any form
of housing loan (i.e., they are not limited to new construction). The usual seignorage in
bankruptcy claims of these mortgage bonds however remains an unresolved legal challenge. 31
64.   As mentioned in the first PFSECAL documentation, the government had created a new
lending contract; the Cedula de Credito Bancdrio, which is a security that represents a bank
credit - i.e., an asset-backed security where the underlying asset represented bank claims.32 It
fulfills requirements to permit execution of title (titulo executivo), i.e., the underlying debt does
not have to be recognized by a court. It also allows for securitization of the claim. The Cedula
was first introduced by a Medida Provis6ria 1925 on October 14, 1999, and has been regularly
extended since then. However it was not been used widely, due to banks' concerns regarding the
non-renewal of the Medida Provis6ria. With the recent passage of Constitutional
Amendment No. 32, this measure now enjoys full legal status, and wider use has already
begun, as evidenced by recent court judgments.
65.   In addition, the use of the C6dula has also been expanded, for the first time in 2001,
to the real estate finance sector, through a new instrument, the Cedula de Credito
Imobilidrio - CCI, which may be issued by institutions other than banks, such as real estate
companies in order to sell its real estate credit receivables. Similar to the Cedula de Cr&dito
Bancdrio, the new instrument is a security structured as a legal vehicle to represent a real estate
credit. CCI can be quoted and traded on the secondary market, using the same clearing
arrangements as for private equities; the CETIP system, helping to reduce transactions costs.
Also, construction companies can include monthly indexation clauses for real estate financing
contracts previously allowed only for financial institutions' credits. This allows construction
companies to better match their assets and liabilities. The CCI can also be acquired by
securitization companies that may later issue mortgage-backed-securities with the appropriate
standardization, documentation and credit enhancements. The extension of this instrument to real
estate companies who represent a significant share of housing credits in Brazil is of significance
in the context of the development of the housing finance market, as it encourages the expansion
of the market for housing loans beyond the banking system, where this market segment has been
dominated by Caixa Econ6mica Federal, encouraging the development of a market-based market
segment distinct from the subsidized segment which dominates the operations of the Caixa
31 LCIs may be bought by securitization companies, who can then issue for the first time, genuine mortgage backed
securities based on these, with appropriate enhancements, etc.
32 World Bank Report No. P7448-BR; April 26, 2001, on the First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 22



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Economica Federal. It is hoped that these recent developments will widen the housing finance
market and foster the development of securitized real estate lending.33
66.    At the same time, the concept of the Patrim6nio de afetacdo, a trust-like institution, was
also introduced (Medida Provis6ria 2221 of September 4, 2001) for real estate financing. This
legal construction separates assets of a construction company for a specific real estate project,
from the assets of the company itself, so that they are not a part of claims against the company in
the event of its bankruptcy, and it serves to give greater security to participants in housing
schemes, as well as housing finance plans sponsored by constructors.34 Together, these measures
considerably clarify, strengthen as well as deepen and extend the use of more enforceable credit
contracts in different segments of the financial system.
67.    The creation of instruments/ vehicles for securitization (of housing finance assets as well
as other asset-backed securities in general) was further enriched at the end of 2001 by the
introduction of Credit Investment Funds (FIDC - fiundos de investimento em direitos credit6rios
introduced in the CVM's Instruction 356 of December 17, 2001); funds which can hold securities
based on any credit receivables including real estate mortgages. The fund's shares correspond to
a proportion of the credit pool receivables. The shares must be rated every quarter and their
accounting value re-assessed every month. They can be listed and traded on the stock exchange
or over-the-counter. They are reserved for professional investors. The fund may be closed or
open. Differentiated payment rights can be attached to the shares, in order to permit credit
enhancement. This special MBS/ABS vehicle represents a considerable simplification of the
current securitization process, which would require the costly creation of a publicly listed
securitization company.35 Moreover, the FDIC is exempted from various financial system taxes
- the CPMF as well as PIS / COFINS), as are other investment funds.36 Together, these measures
considerably clarify, strengthen as well as deepen and extend the use of more enforceable credit
contracts in different segments of the financial system.
Debtor Informnation and the Bankruptcy Law
68.    Progress has been achieved with efforts to enhance debtor screening, which also
feeds into overhead costs and thus bank spreads. A major upgrading of the Central de Risco
is under implementation. The Risk Center has already begun to gather information on loans
of a smaller denomination than hitherto - R$5,000 is now the threshold of data availability,
33 To be discussed in greater detail in the forthcoming study: Brazil - Access to Financial Services; which will have
a chapter on housing finance. For the housing finance market, the LCI and the CCI together represent significant
advances over the previous regime in terms of secondary mortgage market instruments. In the former system the
principal instruments, the LH (Letras Hipotecdrias) and the CRI (Certificados de Recebiveis Imobilidrios) has
significant limitations, being limited largely to banks, and in the case of the LH, used largely by the Caixa for
transfers of savings for housing from other banks.
34 Introduced after the failure of a large construction firm (Encol).
35 In addition, the costs of registration of public offerings of their securities.
36 Created by Resolution No. 2907 of the Monetary Council (November 29, 2001). Follow up implementation
guidelines were issued by the CVM in its Instruction No. 356 of December 17, 2001.
Page 23



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
instead of R$20,000.37 Additionally, new institutional forms have been brought under the
purview of the Central de Riscos, including, importantly, credit cooperatives and micro-
enterprise finance institutions (SCMs).38 With the ongoing upgrading, the Central Bank can
begin disseminating a richer subset of aggregate information on debtors (for a fee) to the
banking system, including positive information that was hitherto lacking.39 The
development of a web page on the Central de Riscos on the Central Bank's website are also
under implementation. The upgrading of the Risk Center, with its expanded coverage and
reduced loan size threshold is important for access to information on small clients, and
thus has huge potential for facilitating access to credit for small borrowers.
69.    An important step in the strengthening of creditor rights will be the passage of an
amended Bankruptcy law (Lei de Falencias). A draft law ("Biolchi project") has been ready to
be voted upon in the House for several years (since 1993); however it was widely acknowledged
that the proposals had many serious limitations. Amendments to further strengthen the draft
were proposed by the Central Bank over the course of 2001, and a revamped and
considerably strengthened version is now being brought before the House.40 The bill is being
supported with renewed impetus and likelihood of its passage has also increased.
37 The threshold was reduced from R$50,000 to R$20,000 in October 1999 and to R$5,000 in early 2001.
38 The inclusion of SCMs among institutions with reporting requirements to the Risk Center was announced in
Resolution 2874 of the National Monetary Council (26 July 2001). Annex 3 has more details.
39 Financed under the Bank's technical assistance loan to the Central Bank, the quality-and-cost based selection for
consultant services for the final extension of the Risk Center System was completed in September and a contract
has now been awarded. The extended system is expected to be operational in the fall of 2002.
40 The Bank has been critically involved in these revisions though an advisory process launched with a ROSC on
bankruptcy in the fall of 2001.
Page 24



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
The Draft Bankruptcy Law
In the current law there are no provisions for rwancial and/or operational restructuring but only for debt
suspension for a period of time (cbncordata suspensiva). Reforms proposed in the TBiolchi' project -introduce
restructuring with possibility of sale of individual assets, shifting the focus from the protection of the debtor to.
the preservation of the business, if *iable, through the  `recuperaqdo judic'a abolishing completely the
concordata which had unnecessarily prolonged liquidations. This process would allow for a much broader range
of options to maintain the businress, such as the possibility of partial sale of assets, rnerger and acquisition,
substitution of management, increase in capital stock, collective labor agreements etc. However, abolishing the
concordaia has the disadvantage of taking away a flexible instrument for enterprises that face' temporary'liquidity
problems. Revised proposals offer an e-xtended menufor enterprises in difficulties.
Currently, creditors do not participate in the process of liquidation or concordata. While Lhe judicial liquidator
has to consult creditors according to the current law, (s)he usually does not do so, and there is no instituuonal
arrangement, such as a creditor committee. The Biolchi project therefore proposes to institute a Comite de
Recuperac,o, comprising the judicial administrator, one employee, and one representative each from the class oft
secured and unsecured creditors. This comnuttee has the authority to present an alternative restructunng plan,'
',supervise the debtor dunng restructuring and evaluate creditor claims. However, even tlFis proposal niay leave
ercessive power to the 'judge who can in,principle accept a restructuring plan proposed by the debtor aind
rejected by ilie creditors.
There are further limitations in the proposed draft law due to, tax debts and labor charges. According to the
C6digo Tributdrio Ntacional (Article 187), tax debts are not subject to bankruptcy and restructuring.
processes, i.e. the enterprise or its successor are liable for.tax debts up to five vears after the respective lax year,"
even if these were not claimed by the'revenue service at the nme of succession; Changes intax provisions have lbo
be introduced in the C6digo Tributdrio Nacional, which -is a complementarv law and therefore requires a
qualified majority in Congress for any changes.'lt is p'roposed in the'new revisions to limit tax liabilities to the'
ones that are registered at the time of bankruptcy or succession, or to limit tax debt to the principal and exempL
any interest charges and other penalties on tax debt. Claims by employees against the company are currently
u,nlimited, extend to' the successor of the company, and rank first in the creditor priority. The Biolchi project
.proposes, on the one hand, to elevate the Fundo de Garantia por Tempo de Serviqo (severance find) to the status
'of a priority creditor, but, on the other hand, to lImit all claims from labor' indemnification and severance pay to
R$30,000 per employee. Other proposals aim to' limit' labor,charges zo three or sir months of salary of ihe
respective employee.               ,              ,    - '                      ' '   ,         '
Under the current law in force, new credits granted under concordata have Lhe same status 'as other credits if the.'
company goes into bankruptcy, which is a strong disincentive for any creditor td grant additional resources to a
firm that is under concordata: The'proposed Biolchi project would give these creditors priority if a company
under restructuring goes into liquidation.  '
70.     Positive aspects of the 'Biolchi' project included (i) increased flexibility to restructuring
and liquidation, going well beyond the present sole measure for debt suspension (concordata
suspensiva). Indeed the Biolchi project aimed at the elimination of the concordata. The Biolchi
project also (ii) increased priority to new creditors during restructuring and (iii) allowed
accelerated asset sales of a firm in the process of liquidation by allowing sales of the company as
a whole.
Page 25



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
71.   However, shortcomings of the 'Biolchi project' were (i) the continued limits on
participation of creditors in the restructuring and liquidation process; (ii) its failure to prioritize
labor and tax claims, (iii) lack of time limits on the standstill period, and (iv) lack of sufficient
attention to problems in asset sales.
72.   Recent amendments made to the draft address these areas of difficulties by (i) enhancing
creditor participation by the creation of a Creditor's Assembly which would accompany the
restructuring or liquidation activity, and requiring formal approval of the creditor's plan by such
an assembly by a majority of at least three creditor classes, (ii) imposing limits on labor claims
to R$30,000 and (iii) establishing the principle that even in the absence of changes in the Tax
code which would be necessary to address the issue of tax claims, such claims should be limited
in amount and protection against such claims should be given to would-be purchasers; (iii)
limiting the standstill period (time between demand by debt for restructuring and approval of
restructuring plan by creditor assembly) to 90 days (or 45 days plus one extension of another 45
days). It also plans to sanction the concept of extrajudicial liquidation, for larger enterprises, and
create special panels for small enterprises' debt rescheduling; and (iv) give a larger menu of for
sale, and also, more options for small enterprises.
73.   In sum, looking at progress with regard to the achievement of an overall increase in the
efficiency and depth of intermediation, it must be acknowledged that much has been done, but
much also remains to be done. In particular, the major legal reforms of Article 192 and
amendments to the financial systems law remain poised on the brink of achievement, but as
political uncertainty mounts towards the end of the term of the present administration, they may
be difficult to achieve. And while many measures have been adopted to raise the depth and
efficiency of financial intermediation, remaining high spreads and real interest rates, albeit in
part the result of exogenous factors, are still to be brought into a more realistic range.
THE BANKING SYSTEM AND ITS RECENT EVOLUTION
Performnance Update
74.   Details of the underlying structure of Brazil's banking system as well as changes it has
undergone since the Real plan have been discussed in the loan documentation for the first
financial sector adjustment loan, which noted the trend reduction in the overall numbers of
banks, the sharp increase in foreign bank presence, and the parallel reduction in the presence of
state-owned banks, over the period 1995-2000. The present section therefore first provides a
brief update on structural and performance trends in Brazil's banking system over the past year,
and then focuses on recent significant initiatives for structural change in publicly owned banks.
75.   In terms of trend structural change, the wave of bank mergers and consolidations which
began in 1997 gained further momentum in 2001 and is expected to accelerate further in 2002.
Initiated by losses in 'float' income, which followed the decline of inflation from the mid-1990s,
and the introduction in 1994 of minimum capital requirements, the trend decline in interest rates
and spreads in the last two to three years has also exerted a downward pressure on bank interest
income, (from their government securities portfolios) and income from spreads, and has led to
compensating increases in volumes of loans and securities held. This, together with reductions in
public sector borrowing, has increased the relative importance of loan volume, as a source of
Page 26



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
income and profits. The consequence has been not only rapid loan growth but also a increase in
the importance of operational scale, and hence, of interest in the acquisition of public and private
banks, leading also to a trend acceleration in the premia of privatizations, which is discussed in
further detail below. As the last wave of privatization of state-owned banks is now concluding,
mergers and buyouts of state bank branches and private banks, both domestic and foreign, is
likely to continue in 2002, as private banks scramble to consolidate their shares.
76.   Looking at recent performance, Brazil's banking system as a whole remains generally
sound, despite some signs of strain in mid-2001. Despite a contraction of net banking sector
income in June 2001, reflecting the restructuring of the federally owned Caixa, net income for
the banking sector as a whole recovered rapidly towards the end of the year. Net income of
R$7.8 billion in December 2001 are more than double the corresponding figure for December
2000 (R$3.3 billion).4' Over half the total profits (53.9 percent or R$4.2 billion) were achieved
by the five major private banks, Bradesco, Itaui, Santander, Unibanco and ABN Amro Bank, in
that order. Analysts observe that the main factors behind the sustained profitability of the
banking system were partly the result of foreign exchange gains, treasury gains from securities
operations due to rising interest rates, and expanded lending. It is noteworthy that income from
securities operations grew 32.1 percent during the year to R$32.1 billion (US$13.76 billion),
while gains from credit operations grew only 10.3 percent to R$47.1 billion (US$20.2 billion) in
2001. Aggregate banking sector data up to end December shows a decline in the proportion of
interest income from loans and leases, from 60 percent to 55.1 percent of total interest income,
over the year, with a corresponding increase in interest income from securities (34.1 percent to
37.4 percent) and some increase of the share of foreign exchange income (from 4.1 percent to 5
percent).42
77.   Looking at federal versus private banks, in terms of sources of income, data for the
federal banks shows dramatic changes, with a huge decline in the proportion of interest income
from loans and leases, from a high of 75.6 percent to 51 percent of total interest income, with a
doubling in interest income from securities (18.8 percent to 37.7 percent) and some increase in
interest income from the share of foreign exchange (from 0.3 percent to 4.4 percent). These data
reflect the restructuring and write off of large volumes of bad assets, and their replacement by
government securities.43 The data for the private banks shows no significant change in the
proportion of interest income from loans and leases, down slightly from 60.8 percent (December
2000) to 60.4 percent of total interest income (December 2001), a small decrease in interest
income from securities (36.4 percent to 32.4 percent) and an increase in the share of foreign
exchange (from 4.4 percent to 5.9 percent). A reduced rate of currency depreciation in early 2002
could reduce profitability as well as impact upon efficiency and asset quality indicators. Brazil's
banks today are more sensitive towards asset quality changes than a few years ago, due to high
loan growth in recent years, and loan quality may be affected by the economic slowdown.
41 All data and estimates are undertaken by the World Bank staff, based on data from the Central Bank, unless
otherwise stated.
42 It is held that foreign exchange gains may be understated. Unfortunately a breakdown or explanation is not
available. It is likely that these have accrued through hedging against the expected devaluation of the real.
43 Accrued income from non-performing loans would no longer be recorded.
Page 27



W; I'): i'*'                                                        toI  ,  li
*  r-l cc  'ctoi 0;  - C]'r.  7,>  o 
00   CIN  ffl  00  In C  C  1  'et'  *t'~  Iwce  -iri'In  cI+
rn                                                             0  -~~~~~~0r ~ I ir   n  t.   N. a  *)  C
*                                          2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
...flk~~~~~~l4]YK  c  .4-Ia)~~~~~~04-
Oiq-        :01.rItN                              p
j WI  1        -1              c-, ''C                           *-   0
C40iN"icn.nI N.             mal  WN  i-OnO       'Z c               00    4) 0~  4I
N N  NE  ~~~~ =t'-00 £ 00  e -enC0In   `001l  W
C~~~~~~~~~~~~.- v., -                                  '19                      -0.
C14~~~~~~~~~~~c
4-                         U~~~~~~~~~~~~~".0  or,- -                                   00
Cut,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 04
L In ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~&If  S0~jn  ,n0
- en .0 ~     ,  Ce ~ r   I   e  NiNo. Cy,.'0I               0    144
en  -~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -~~,  4en           t
go ,  .. M  -  I ~  . _ c-,  C.   Irn-iU0                    3U  4
~~~~~~~~~~~r- ~ ~ ~ cn a 1  =.N;  -r  nr4 m dt  L-S en       0  te  C t
o                                H   P               I~~~~~~ 4~~~.  -  -            4 
-  - 'en en -. en 0 r- cc 4 en t r'  IC  0.-CS.  ('a 00  0 r-' ri-.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itri 
cn ~    ~      7m
C                                  ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 2
I                 *I~~~~' ~ ~~  .  'uf ~~~~~~ehiJ-'o
2Yalr:1a-1   riuI   *'a  U    i   i 
4.  0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r-j                                   ;a Cd



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
largest five federal banks shrunk somewhat between December 1999 and December 2000, from
R$135 billion to R$131 billion, and then declined further dramatically by December 2001, to
R$103 billion or by 23.7 percent. Private bank lending, which had escalated more rapidly in the
recent period (R$61 billion to R$82 billion from December 1999 to December 2000, almost 35
percent), continued to grow, at a somewhat diminished rate, to a further R$107 billion in
December 2001 (almost 31 percent).
79.   The share of loans in total assets for the banking system as a whole declined in 2001,
from to 32.2 percent in December 1999 to 31.8 percent in December 2000, to 29.6 percent in
December 2001. However this can be attributed to declines in federal banks, and reflects
substantially their financial restructuring and impaired asset write offs. For the top five federal
banks, loans to total assets declined from 39.1 percent in December 1999 to 34.9 percent in
December 2000, and as may be expected with the mid-year clean up and recapitalization, to 26.1
percent in December 01), with a parallel increase in assets held as securities (19.3 percent to 29.6
percent). Loan to asset ratios have increased for large private banks. By contrast, for the banking
system as a whole, deposit growth, which had been slow in 2000 (with virtually no change
between the R$316 billion of December 1999 and R$318 billion of December 2000) grew 16.2
percent to R$ 369.6 billion in December 2001. The corresponding decline in loan deposit ratios
and loan asset ratios implies some increase in liquidity; loan-deposit ratios declined over the last
year from 93.9 percent in December 2000 to 85.2 percent in December 2001.
80.   Finally, indicators of changes in asset quality have been relatively stable. Using the
Central Bank's newly generated loan classification data, it is shown that in December 2001,
loans classified as 'normal' (AAA to C) amounted to 88.2 percent of total loans outstanding, and
showed little variation over the previous year." Loans in the Risk 1 category (D to G) did show
some trend increase over the year (8 percent in December 2001, up from 7.2 percent in June
2001, and from 6.3 percent in December 2000. However loans in the worst (Risk 2 or H)
category correspondingly declined (3.7 percent in December 2001, down from 4.1 percent in
June 2001 and from 5.9 percent in December 2000). According to private analysts of the top 17
banks (representing around 75 percent of the banking system), the share of non-performing loans
in gross loans declined over the year, from 7.6 percent in December 1999 to 4.9 percent in
December 2000, and further to 2.9 percent by June 2001. Capital adequacy ratios accordingly
have remained broadly robust, varying from 9.4 percent in December 1999 with some decline to
8.9 percent in December 2000 and recovering to 9.2 percent in December 2001.
PuBLIc BANK REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING
81.   The recent acceleration of Brazil's program of public bank reform is a major step
forward in a process which had its genesis in a program of bank strengthening which began in
1995, shortly after the launching of the Real plan.45 The PROER and PROES programs for the
restructuring of private and state govemment owned financial institutions, aimed at preventing
44 This figure is down slightly from the June 2001 figure of 88.7 percent, but up slightly on the year to year
December 2000 figure of 87.9 percent.
45 See Annex 2 for details on both federal and state bank reforms, including programs initiated at individual federal
banks.
Page 29



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
financial crises, enhancing financial system soundness and integrity as well as protecting against
fiscal indiscipline at the state level.46 The new step forward in reform, launched in June
2001, for the first time address problems at the country's largest, federally-owned financial
institutions. These initiatives are backed by new prudential regulations and greatly
strengthened banking supervision which requires compliance with regulatory norms at the
federal-banks, and also requires the government as owner to take cognizance and action to
ensure the solvency of federal financial institutions. Recent actions however may be viewed
as the first phase of a further series of measures to ensure sustainability of recent actions.
Federal Banks
82.   Brazil's four deposit taking federally owned financial institutions include the Banco do
Brasil (BdB) and the Caixa Economica Federal (CEF), which are the two largest deposit banks in
the country, and two smaller regional federal banks, the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), and
Banco da Amaz8nia - BASA.  Over the years, these banks, which have been used to implement
specially designed and targeted programs for lending to specific sections of the economy
(notably rural and housing finance programs and regional development programs), have suffered
continued deterioration of their loan portfolio, as a result of a combination of factors; their
special mandates and programs, limited supervision and inspection, differential norms for the
roles of managers and keeping of accounts for federal banks relative to private banks, and also,
the problems of internal efficiency and unclear accountability.
83.   Following the issue of a series of new prudential regulations for the banking system from
1999, and the major improvements introduced in its systems of on-site bank examination and
supervision, the Central Bank of Brazil launched a comprehensive program of on-site
examinations which revealed problems that have existed in the four banks for years; a significant
proportion of which were due to credit operations that the federal banks make on behalf of the
federal government. Negotiations between the government, as owner of the Federal Banks, and
the Central Bank, as regulator and supervisor, resulted in a series of decisions, enshrined in a
Decree Law of June 22, 2001, to restructure and recapitalize the federal banks, and going
forward, to introduce transparency in their operations with the government.48
84.   The main objectives spelled out in this law were to require the owner (the State) to
restore the financial condition of these banks, recognizing and absorbing past losses. Going
forward the Federal Government undertakes to assume the risks and costs of the various federal
credit programs managed by these institutions, reflecting transparently in its budget any
subsidies provided through these banks, which henceforth must be approved by the National
Congress. The Decree Law provides specifically for:
46The PROES program for restructuring state banks was launched in August 1996.
47 The fifth federal bank, and the third largest in terms of size, is the BNDES, the National Development Bank.
However, it does not take deposits from the public.
48 Medida Provisoria No. 2196-1, issued on June 22, 2001.
Page 30



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
* Removing the credit risk from the operations funded by the so called "Constitutional
Funds" managed by these banks prior to November 30, 1998;49
* Allowing these banks to manage new "Constitutional Funds" at their own risk. The
banks can decide whether or not they wish to share the credit risk of such loans, receiving
higher returns if they agree to bear such risks;50
* Authorizing the Government to void guarantees given by the federal banks for rural
credits sold to the Federal Government at book value. Thus these banks would not bear
any further responsibility for credit risk on the rural and real estate loans swapped with the
Federation for new, negotiable, debt;5'
* Authorizing the Federation to net out the debit and credit accounts of the federal
banks with the Federation;
* Establishing special debt-for-bond swap programs for various programs/debts held by
each of the four federal banks.
85.    The recapitalization actions undertaken to execute the "Medida Provis6ria" are intended
to constitute the first stage of a transformation process which aims to have the federal banks
governed more independently, with their senior managers accountable to commercially oriented
performance targets, which are better specified and communicated internally, and determined in
advance within the framework of each institutions' strategic plan. The overall transformation
process therefore also envisages internal changes which will constitute a second phase of
reorganization, to be incorporated in their strategic planning process for the 2002-04 triennial.
Specifically, the internal changes, actively supported and closely monitored by the Central Bank,
are envisaged to include:
* Leveraging management layers by creating a structure of accountability with
decentralized reporting, providing for more objective and commercial decision making;
* Developing a new commercial strategy and new products to diversify away from their
traditional targeted sectors and Government-oriented programs;
* Organizing activities by major business lines and separating out Government-related
activities;
* Improving management information systems to support the monitoring of the above
actions and to view the performance of each major business line, especially for
49 There are three regional Constitutional funds, managed by three of the four FFI; the North-East fund, (managed
by BNB), the Northern fund (managed by BASA), and the Center-East fund (managed by BdB). These funds have
been used as vehicles for the implementation of social policy objectives through credit allocation, channeling funds
to certain activities designated by the government.
50 Under option (i) the bank would assume 100 percent of the credit risk and receive a 6 percent return from the
Constitutional Fund. It would also be permitted to consider funds received as part of its Tier 2 capital (subordinated
debt) subject to the overall limit that Tier 2 capital cannot exceed 50 percent of the banks' Tier 1 capital. Under
option (ii) the bank only assumes 50 percent of the credit risk, receives a lower return (3 percent), and cannot deem
funds received to be part of its Tier 2 capital. The main beneficiary of the first option is likely to be Banco do Brasil.
51 Includes transactions related to FUNCAFE,, PRODECER II and other credits.
Page 31



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Government programs, hence enabling performance monitoring on a risk adjusted
basis;
* Improving internal controls according to plans, and within a timetable required by the
Central Bank.
86.   Clearly, these actions may be viewed as significant and major first steps towards the
reform of the largest financial institutions in Brazil. Based on the underlying new prudential
requirements, continued enforcement of compliance of these regulations will help to ensure that
financial soundness is sustained, and that the inflow of new public funds is not wasted. The
decision to inject new government securities in the institutions which are liquid and remunerated
at market rates is also a significant advance over early attempts at financial bailouts over a
decade ago, provided the banks are indeed permitted free use of these resources. Decisions to
increase the transparency of government mandates are laudable. The adoption of the phased
program to simultaneously reform internal controls, audit, management information and
governance systems will be the key to reform sustainability.
87.   Nevertheless, many problem areas remain. Financial restructuring which has already
taken place could not solve all the financial problems facing the banks; in particular the
accounting of tax credits, as well as the adequacy of pension provisions are likely remaining
problems - although these known to be possible problem areas in private banks as well. There
are also specific details in some accounts which will take considerable work of precision to fully
account for, which could have implications for projected future income streams.52 There is also
considerable variation between the four federal banks, and clearly difficulties at some are
considerably larger than at others. Custom designed solutions will be needed to address these.
88.   Going forward, several challenges lie ahead to ensure the sustainability of reforms.
This will require close cooperation and a shared vision between the government as the owner,
the Central Bank as the banking supervisor, and senior management at the banks. First, the
government as owner needs to ensure that directors serving on the boards of the federal banks
are suitably qualified professionals, with the independence to support and oversee the execution
of the internal changes that are being initiated. Today, standard fit-and-proper criteria for private
bank directors are not applicable to public banks. Regulatory requirements on governance,
fitness and enforcement should ideally be achieved by incorporation into the by-laws of public
banks. Political risks in this agenda cannot be underestimated; the government as both owner and
controlling shareholder plays a pivotal role.
89.   Second, senior management of the federal financial institutions needs to adopt a viable
and commercial business strategy that optimizes the potential of their banking franchise,
including the real capital to finance it, and systems which allow the Boards to control, and the
Central Bank to monitor, its execution. This would include the real separation of lines of
business, with appropriate allocations of overheads and full cost accounting for each, a clear
accounting separation of government activities. It should include measures to address the poor
52 e.g., at Caixa, future income will be affected also by the prospects of its CVS paper which will become due in the
future, the real value and projected future value of income from judicial deposits, its ability to cope with credit risk
in the future as lending will need to expand, etc.
Page 32



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
efficiency of both banks and rationalize their costs structures without relying solely on gains
from business volumes.
90.   Third, the Central Bank has to augment the scope of its supervisory approach to
enforce best standards and also to add qualitative judgment in evaluating and monitoring the
new strategy and accompanying financial and capital plans of the federal financial institutions.
The Central Bank would need to achieve this without diminishing the surveillance and
examination efforts to assess their continuous solvency.
91.   The Central Bank is aware of these challenges and has begun to prepare a phased
action program of medium term restructuring and rehabilitation for the four deposit
taking federal banks. The Central Bank is enthusiastic about the addition of monitoring
indicators to such a program, which would be agreed with the government, as principal
shareholder of the federal financial institutions. Such phased action programs could differ for
each specific institution, as there are wide differentials in their present status, with regard to
performances as well as internal controls.
92.   To achieve a better understanding of specific problem areas, a second round of
follow up inspections of all four federal banks was initiated in early 2002, and is expected to
be completed by May this year. These follow up inspections are focused on specific problem
areas: quality of management information systems, internal audit functions and processes, credit
risk models used internally, other risk management functions and processes, and also, a partial
credit review. Reforms proposed also include the strengthening of governance throuAh a decree
on the govemance of all government owned companies with Boards of Directors, and also,
eventually, through the passage of a Lei Complementar which would amend the fundamental
banking and financial system law 4595 of 1964, removing specific passages singling out specific
federal banks such as BNDES and Banco do Brasil for special treatment, as well as other
provisions affecting bank govemance, penalties, etc.
93.   A key issue in the area of public bank reform will be the continuation of political
consensus to move ahead. The government, as owner of the federal financial institutions, has
considerable authority over the appointment of bank boards, and at present, the Central Bank
does not have sufficient independence to ensure that its agenda of reform will be maintained if it
current reform oriented technical staff should change. These concems must be acknowledged.
Efforts are being made through the institution of increased disclosure and transparency in
decisions to maintain a steady course by public knowledge and support. The recent
announcement of the government in April 2002 of its intention to increase the proportion of
widely held shares in Banco do Brasil (from its present level of 8.7 percent to 25 percent)
for its eventual listing on the Novo Mercado is an example of its policies to enhance
disclosure to build reform momentum. The government has also announced its intention of
calling an Extraordinary Shareholders Assembly meeting to amend the statutes of Banco do
Brasil to enable this.
53 This would apply to both the joint public-private companies (Sociedades de Economia Mista) such as Banco do
Brasil, BNB and BASA, as well as to the public companies (Empresas Puiblicas, such as Caixa Econ6mica Federal)
Page 33



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
State Banks
94.    Brazil's sustained and successful program of state bank restructuring and privatization
suggests that, provided political commitment remains unshaken, federal bank reform can also
make significant progress. At the launching of the state bank reform program, PROES, there
were 35 State-owned financial institutions, while as of end-March 2002, 10 State banks had been
liquidated, 14 banks had either been fully privatized (10 banks), or had been "federalized" as a
prior step to their privatization (4 banks). Out of the 14 banks 7 were being privatized directly by
the States and 7 by the Federal Government. Five state banks had been recapitalized and a large
number (16) of State Development Agencies, some of which were previously financial
institutions (either banks or former savings and loans) were put into operation.
95.    The pace of privatization of the state banks is accelerating. After the privatization of
BANESPA in November 2000, there was a long interval before the next privatization, of
Paraf'ba, in November 2001. Another three privatizations have since been concluded, in
November and December 2001 and January 2002. Four banks are still in federal hands and plans
for their privatization are advanced. It is expected that the privatization of state banks will be
concluded in the present year. Meanwhile, an additional Bank, still in state hands, has applied for
inclusion in the programs for privatization.54 It is expected that before the end of the term of
the present government, the privatization programs for state banks will be completed.
96.    The sale of the State banks has so far yielded R$11,482 billions (close to US$4.6 billion),
out of which 62.4 percent came from the sale of a single large bank, BANESPA.55 Most of the
funds are being used to net out State debts with the Federal Government, including funds to
recapitalize restructured state banks.
BANK SUPERvIsIoN AND BANK FAILURE RESOLuTioN
Supervision
97.    The Central Bank's progress with strengthened supervision, noted at the time of the
First Adjustment Loan, is sustained. Following improvements in loan classification, efforts are
being made to improve disclosure and internal controls.56 Steady even if slow progress in
program areas must be acknowledged, even if this is only a part of a long agenda. In terms of
specific projects discussed with the Central bank a year ago, significant progress can first of all
be noted with regard to the offsite supervision project, which is now ready. The new system
54 The pending privatizations are Ceara, Maranhao, BESC (Santa Catarina) and Piauf. Meanwhile, the governor of
Espfrito Santo has also announced his intention to privatize the Banco do Estado do Espirito Santo (BANESTES),
and a valuation process has begun, legal preconditions (a State constitutional amendment and passage of a law for
its privatization) have been fulfilled, and the restructured Board, which will undertake the privatization, has been
established. This is outside the PROES program (see Annex 2).
55 Apart from total price, payments to employees etc. are also added in BACEN estimates, which may therefore
differ slightly from private ones.
56 With monthly automatic credit classification, rules on the minimum scope of internal portfolio reviews and
reviews by auditors of classification criteria and adequacy of loan loss reserves.
Page 34



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
allows the supervisors to run simulation screens/stress tests for the each one of the banks under
their responsibility. The system will assist supervisors through the increase in constant banking
risk observation and the provision of 'early warnings' to supervisors, based on a systematic
monitoring index of operational limits (including the measurement of the Basle capital index,
minimum net worth, foreign exchange exposure as well as loan-loss provisioning). Data
accessibility to the system will be through Internet facilities. A second project, for the
enhancement of on-site supervision through the production of new examination manuals as
well as their dissemination via the Central Bank web site.57 The project is currently near
completion, expected in June/July 2002.
98.   Third, the project for the enhancement of the Credit Risk Center has also been
launched. The Center has already begun to extend the range of information it provides, from the
threshold of R$20,000, down to R$5,000. The current expansion under way would permit the
Central Bank to also develop and manage a model to assess systemic credit risk, as well as to be
able to gather and disseminate an enriched set of information for users (including positive
information).,The Risk Center has also expanded the scope of information it collects to
include a ran e of small institutions, including microfinance enterprises (SCMs) and credit
cooperatives.   The large scale and ambitious expansion project should be completed by
November 2002. The fourth significant project, developing and making operational a Bank
rating model began in October 2001, and it is expected that the contract will be completed by
July/August 2002. It is planned that rating standards will be formally approved by the Monetary
Council, and the Central Bank will publish the rating methodology, which is expected to closely
approximate the CAMvIELS rating system (i.e., it should incorporate not only financial ratios, but
the assessment by examiners on the quality and efficiency of the control and risk management
systems that support corporate governance) and to be integrated into the on-site and off-site
supervisory processes. The Central Bank supports the need to communicate relevant standards
for risk management and control systems to both boards of directors and senior management of
banks, to encourage enforcement. It intends that the new rating system should be advanced
enough to be applicable in terms of the future BIS 2 requirements.
99.   One area in which progress is slower than hoped for is with regard to the legal
protection of supervisors. While there is a very strong desire on the part of the Central Bank's
directors to pass such a law, which would encompass protection not only to bank supervisors but
also to officers and directors / Board members of the Central Bank, the present political juncture
is viewed as unfavorable for either its submission or its passage. Enhanced protection to senior
most supervisors in the draft Central Bank law to be submitted to Congress would however be
extended, through its provisions for autonomy and independence of Central Bank directors.
However protection to supervisors is still a long way away. In overall terms, while better
supervision practices in Brazil are steadily being developed, outstanding issues remain and also,
57 A reputed international consulting firm was selected to modernize and to make available on the internet the bank
supervision manuals, which have been produced both in Portuguese and in English. The Portuguese version will
include all the operational details which will be for use exclusively by the supervisors. The English version will be
more condensed and with a condensed Portuguese version will be available over the internet to the general public.
58 The obligatory reporting of information by SCMs was introduced on July 26, 2001, in CMN Resolution No. 2874.
Page 35



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
it will take a long time to inculcate new practices in a sufficient number of trained and
experienced professional staff.
100. More progress has been made over the last year with Brazil's program of
accounting reform for financial institutions and with other areas of regulatory reform,
especially for securities and derivatives. Regulatory initiatives for calendar year 2002 focus on
two areas, dealing with accounting and risk management standards.
101.   The first type of changes intend to facilitate the convergence of current Regulatory
Accounting Practices mandated by the Central Bank (RAP) for financial institutions, towards
International Accounting Standards (IAS), a process that the Central Bank sees proceeding to
conclusion during the next two to five years. In addition, regulatory accounting practices that
relate to risk management intend to complement the changes that the Central Bank is introducing
in its approach to supervision and also to finalize the recent strengthening of federal financial
institutions. Recent achievements in this direction include a change in the regulation dealing with
the valuation and disclosure of securities, requiring securities to be marked to market, and
requiring also a distinction between securities held for cash, trading, or holding to maturity.59
Second, the Central Bank has several additional initiatives in the area of convergence between
Brazilian RAPs and IAS. The treatment of financial derivative securities and related
transactions is another area where some changes have been introduced and more are
contemplated. Netting of derivative obligations is allowed, derivatives are to be marked to
market, and hedge accounting has been strengthened by requiring the specification of credit
versus market risk hedges.60 As pointed out by Central Bank staff, Brazilian accounting may
differ from that required by IAS because of the absence of specific Brazilian rules on recognition
and measurement in specific areas, and on disclosure requirements. However, plans to rectify
these are underway.61
102.   A caveat to be added to the assessment of the overall situation of bank supervision is that
a more exhaustive view of the present situation in bank supervision is likely to emerge following
the joint Bank-IMF FSAP which has just been launched. It is hoped that this will more precisely
identify areas for further strengthening and of remaining risk.
59 There seems to be certain residual divergences with IAS 105 in terms of the conditions to qualify for the
investment book. It seems that besides intention and ability, the Central Bank requires financial capacity in order for
a bank to account its portfolio of securities as investment. The related valuation and disclosure effects derived from
this change may need to be reviewed in more detail, since they may serve to defer losses recently accumulated in the
last few months of 2001, when monetary policy reversed the trend reduction in interest rates.
60 On accounting registry and valuation of securities by financial institutions, see Circular 3068, of November, 8
2001. Provisional Executive Order n° 2192 establishes rules on netting. Circular 3082, of 30 January, 2002 provides
details on derivatives accounting (mark to market and hedge accounting); Central Bank Communique No 9253 of
February 8, 2002 authorizes swaps, forward and options contracts, CMN Resolution 2933 provides a framework for
credit derivates.
61 Rules of recognition and measurement are not specified for: the consolidation of special purpose entities
(following the ENRON problem this is an important area); intangible assets; hedge accounting for derivatives,
impairment of assets, and leases. Also, there are no rules requiring disclosure of: Cash flow statements; the fair
value of investment properties; discontinuing operations and diluted earnings per share.
Page 36



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
.      ' - .    -  Accounting Standards Reforms and Prudential Regulations in Brazil.,
The Central Bank, which is -responsible for accounuing and prudential reguldtions for all financial institutions2, has
an ongoing program. for the harmonizauion of financial accounting, auditing and reporting staridards with
iternationally recomnmended guidance and best practices, especially those issued 'by the Inernational Accounting
Standards Board - lASB. Inlemational Federation of Accountants - IFAC, and the Basle Committee on Banking
Supervision of the Bank for International Settlements - BIS. Its work includes the following important areas:
Provisions for loan losses;
2' 'Principles for consolidation of financial statements of financial institutions;  -'
+. Disclosure;          -      -:       .'                                     -
Criteria for 'mark lo market accounting of securties.                 '       l
* Chti'ifa,to be followed by banks in their operations of credit -derivatives.
The reform program   focused- first of all on Loan Classification and Provisioning Requirements (Resolution
2682/99), and established requirements for,the, Consolidated Accounting of Financial Staternents (Resolution
1,2743/00X for 'alf subsidiaries and affiliated companies. domnestic or foreign, whether control is retained directly or
indirectly. It also defines Groups for consolidated accounting and supervision in the same manner. Recen
.regulations introduced a new concept, known as economic group. Resolutions 2723/00 and 2743/00 require two
different types of consohldated,financial statements (i) an,operitnal consolidated statement (for the financial
' group)" and (ii) an ecownomic consolidated statement, which represents the consolidation of the operational
consolidated statement with the financial statements of the non-financial institutions, which include industry;-credit
card companies, factoring companies, and others. The first consolidates all the financial institutions connected to the -
bank, regardless of the level of control, management or-use of the same name. In June 2000 (Circular 2990) the
* Central Bank also made quarterly rmancdal reporting obtigaiory, from March 31,'2001.
Emphasis in the last one year has 'focused on accounting for securities and derivatives including Mark to
Mfarket Accounting. Two recent guidelines issues on this (Circular 3068, in November, 2001, and Circular 3082,'
in January, 2002), are based -closely on 'international standards; Circular 3068 requires 'that debt and'equity,
-securities-held'are to be'classified in one of the following categories: 1 - trading; n - available fdr sale; and Ill.- held
to maturity. Circular 3082 require -financial institutions to'account all derivative financial instruments as assets or
liabilities and mark them  to 'market, and it clarifies hedge accounting for certain instruments, with operations
classified as cash flow hedge or market-risk hedge. Transactions in swaps, forwards and options transactions were
authorized by the Central Bank's Communique 9253 of February 8, 2002 (building' upon an earlier resolution
,defining assets to which derivative transactions could be linked - Resolution 2873 of,July 26, 2001). On February.-
28, 2002, the Monetary Council approved Resolution 2933 which covers requirements to be followed by banks in'
credit derivatives operations. and clarified foreign exchange swaps -on government securities in Circular 3099
(M-rcb 26, 202)..
Future plans are focused on establishing (I) new rules and responsibilities for independent auditors; and (2) more
detailed disclosure requirements.                             ,.          - ,' '                           -
Note: Tbe CVI has overall responsibility for regulating corporate accounting standards in Brazil, but the National Monetry Council, led by
the Cental Bank, bas the responsibilty for the regulation of accounting and audinag for financial instiuuons. Braziian requirements for'
crporate accounung are currently based on the Corporate Law, complemented by regulations- from the Securities Commnission for listed
compames Modifications to this accountung famework have been proposed by the Federal Council of Accountants (ConseLho Federal de_
ConiabilLdade). The primary difference relates to inflation accounting, where the CFC pxoposes that financial statements are required to be
adjusted for intlation througb the current date if inflion effect is material (though how to measure this is not defined). The Corporate Law
accountng principles do not allow the recogition of inflation effects after January 1. 1996. All wompanies are required to prepare thenr fininciat
statements in accordance with the Corporate Law accountng- framework.  * '  .  .,. .
Page 37



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Bank Failure Resolution
103.  Key current components of the bank failure resolution and deposit insurance framework
are described in the documentation for the First Programmatic Loan. To summarize, the
backbone of the system is Law 9447 which gives the Central Bank strong powers and significant
flexibility to deal with undercapitalized and insolvent banks; i.e., powers to require prompt
capital injections by shareholders or a solution via the merger with, or acquisition by, other
banks in the system. Failing that, the Central Bank enjoys powers to close the troubled bank and
immediately resolve it by splitting it into a "good" bank (containing good assets and the
liabilities with the public) to be sold/transferred to other banks, and a residual "bad" bank to
move onto extra-judicial liquidation. These tools have been used effectively recently for the
sale/merger of two medium-sized banks. The process of extra-judicial liquidation, which is
governed by Law 6024 of 1974, has however turned out to be an important drawback of the
current framework. The initial objective of this law-to increase the efficiency of liquidation
by taking it out of the judicial system and entrusting it to the Central Bank-has not been met.
The original idea of extra-judicial liquidation by the Central Bank (Law 6024, 1974) was that it
would be faster than judicial liquidation, that the Central Bank had better knowledge of banks,
that the Central Bank used to be major creditor of banks, and finally, due to concerns of systemic
risk. In reality the process is still protracted, the Central Bank is no longer the major creditor of
the system, and its institutional knowledge is less relevant than other considerations for asset
recovery. Extra-judicial liquidations of failed banks have proven to be bureaucratic and time
consuming, with significant asset value destruction, burdening the Central Bank with a
responsibility incompatible with its primary function.
104. The Central Bank therefore initiated a thorough scrutiny of the relevant legislation
for bank failure resolution, as well the role of the present deposit insurance scheme; the Fundo
Garantidor de Creditos (FGC), targeted to culminate in the submission to Congress of draft legal
amendments and reforms to FGC statutes. A broad vision of the scope of the review process is
now available. It would assess, inter alias: (i) the reduction of the Central Bank role in the extra-
judicial liquidation process and the increase of the role of the private sector; (ii) the balance of
rules and discretion in the corrective phases of dealing with troubled banks; (iii) the introduction
of more efficient resolution techniques for closed banks-such as "purchase and assumption"
operations; (iv) an enhanced role of FGC in a reformed liquidation process; (v) the strengthening
of FGC financial position, particularly via access to contingent lines of finance; and (vi) possible
changes to the design of the deposit insurance (e.g., the introduction of risk-based premiums and
other complementary monitoring powers).62 An advanced draft of a new law has now been
prepared by a consultant to the Central Bank, although the draft is not yet finalized.
62 Annex 5 to the documentation for PFSECAL1 contains a more detailed discussion of these issues.
Page 38



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
* Bank Failure Resolution  New Proposals Under Discussion
A' first set of proposals' concerns the relative roles of the Cen'tral Bank, the judiciary, the deposit insurer,:
the liquidator, and creditors.. Under the suggested reforms, the FGC and creditors. would take on more
prominent and more 'flexible roles; the judiciary would assurme a smail. narrowly defined role, and the Central
Bank 'would continue to. be exclusively responsible fo6' supervision. and -for declaring a: bank insolvent. It
would turn over banks to be liquidated .to FGC, the default liquidator, which could then sub-contract to a,
-specialized firm, indiidual or to another bank. The judiciary would supervise the process and al liquidation
decisions would be subject.to judicial review to avoid subsequent suits. Suits against the Failed banklor'
concerning the liquidation process. would be unfied at one court A Creditor Conm ttee (including
representatives of the former owners, tbe creditors as well as the liquidator) would also play a role in tbe
liquidation process.  ,       -  ,                -                         --
Second, there are also proposals to restrict the liabilities of bank managers and owners. Currently they are
subject to both subjective (wrong-doing) and objective (even without wrong-doing) responsibility, making
them liable witnhtheir personal assets in the evenL of a bank failure. Proposals under consideration would limit
objective responsibility to owners. Further, there are concerns about the liability of the- liquidator. Since FGC
would be the responsible party and since it is financed by contribution of its member banks, the restriction or
elimination of the liability of the liquidator are also. under'consideration- .'          .
Third. some proposals under discussion suggest that the'FGC could also take-responsibiLity in open-bank
assistance. The Ceitrai Bank would be responsible for declaring a bank "intervened" and FGC can then
accept or reject tbe role of the 'intervener'... The intervention would be only for short timre periods (two or
three months, with a maximum of one year): Financial resources contnbuted&by FC;C during mnterventionr
could take 'the form of shareholdings, credits, -or) a purchase of claims of' the intervened bank. FGC,
managenient-underlined" that intervention should only be applied to banks that are in temporary liquidity
problems but are viable in the medium- and long-term. .The enhianced role fpr.FGC in open-bank assistance
apparentJy does not require'a change in its status as non-public industry-based deposit insurance scherne: - '
Another area under discussion is the problem of succession, i.e. assuming responsibility liabilities of a failed'
.bank, even if.these are not apparent or clearly, revealed. This is similar to the discussion on the new.
insolvency law. There are therefore proposals to declare a failed bank to be 'extinguished,' thus clearing an. -
acquiring bank of any liability.                      ' .                     ' '
105.   Two initial drafts of new     legislation, had been prepared' by end-2001, one by a
Central Bank staff and another by the FGC, in collaboration with the bank association
FEBRABAN, have been completed and serve as basis for further discussion. Both are now
under review by a high-level financial system attorney who has been contracted by the
Central Bank, and expects to present a draft law by May 2002. Recent laws passed by other
countries adopting "best practices" for bank resolution are being provided to the Central Bank by
the Bank for reference. Details of some of the proposals under consideration today are discussed
in the box below.
The Deposit Insurance Fund - FGC
106.   As noted in the documentation for the first PFSECAL, Brazil's privately run deposit
insurance fund, while enjoying many good structural and governance features, needs to increase
contingent access to liquid private sector resources to confront failures in the segment of larger
banks. In 2001, the deposit insurance institution (Fundo Garantidor de Creditos, FGC)
began to strengthen its efforts to obtain private contingent financing, so that it could lower
Page 39



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
current contributions by its member banks. Further, FGC management has proposed
changes to its statutes that would broaden the financing options and give more
responsibility to management. Revisions of the Monetary Council Resolutions that govern
FGC has been prepared in draft by FGC and these drafts are now under review by the Central
Bank, and will then be voted in an Assembly of Banks.63 It proposes a broadening of its
financing options to include private, public, and multilateral financing. It also aims to reduce its
target assets, currently at 5 percent of all covered deposits, to two percent, which would allow a
lowering of the premium below the current 0.3 percent of all covered deposits. Further,
contingent financing would be included in this 2 percent target. FGC is also asking for
permission to change its member contribution rate without having to go to the Monetary Council,
but in consultation with the Central Bank and the FGC Board. The responsibilities of FGC
management vis-h-vis its Administrative Council would be strengthened, implying hiring of at
least one more executive director, in addition to the sole present director. It is also proposed that
the executive directors would assume objective responsibility for their actions, instead of acting
on behalf of the Administrative Council. However FGC is not planning to expand its operational
structure significantly in preparation for taking over a larger role in bank failure resolution - both
liquidation and intervention - as described above. Rather, it plans on contracting liquidators and
interveners, who could be firms, individuals or other banks, on an as-required basis. FGC is
already currently involved in the liquidation of three failed banks. While being liquidated under
the present regime, the process is being interpreted more flexibly and involves greater
participation of FGC. According to FGC management, the first of these three cases could end
shortly, after "only" three years.
107.  On access to contingent funding, FGC management has been in discussion with 11 major
Brazilian banks (both public and private, domestic and foreign) to obtain a stand-by facility of
R$1.2 billion, with no commitment fee, for a period over five years and renewed yearly. If
drawn upon, the interest rate would be the interbank market rate and the loan would be for
around four years. FGC has asked the Central Bank to allow lending banks to attach a zero risk
weight to this loan. Independent of the result of this request, however, the stand-by agreement
will be signed after the General Assembly of FGC and the Monetary Council have approved the
new FGC statutes. In a second phase, FGC management plans to explore possibility of obtaining
stand-by facilities on the international market. The lowering of the target assets to 2 percent
instead of 5 percent of total covered deposits, together with the inclusion of the contingent
financing facility in this target would allow the substantial lowering of the premium from its
current level of 0.3 percent per year to 0.01 percent per year in 2006. The proposal for
simplifying the procedure for requesting annual changes in contributions should facilitate this
reduction.
Contingency Planning
108. The Central Bank had initiated, in early 2001, work to develop a blueprint contingency
plan-to ensure adequate preparedness to deal with early stages of a financial crisis, should one
unexpectedly arise. Since the spelling out of the broad scope of such a plan, at the time of the
63 Resolution 2197 August 1995 deals with the FGC's establishment and Resolution 2211 of the same year details
its statutes.
Page 40



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
presentation to the Bank's board of the first PFSECAL, authorities have advanced with the plan
through the engagement of high-level consultant services, involved with the pioneering of this
concept. Together with the consultants, a basic approach document has been prepared, which
includes Guidelines for Crisis Contingency Planning. The guidelines identify twelve key sources
of systemic risk in Brazil and propose further work around four building blocks to establish an
effective crisis management capacity, dealing with: a) infornation; b) supervisory powers; c)
readiness to act; and d) stress simulation. The latter includes recommendation for analysis and
simulation in eight areas and leads to a Systemic Risk Mapping methodology. The overall
direction and the proposed framework appear to be positive and appropriate, As such, intensive
technical work on the Contingency Plan had been planned for 2003 (under the Bank-financed
FSTAL), although there is now a possibility that this could be brought forward. Crucial
implementation steps as visualized by the Central Bank include: identifying a group of suitable
individuals who would lead contingency planning; consolidating the advances in offsite
surveillance that already enable the performance of stress simulations; and adopting as
operational the new bank rating system that would be at the center of the Central Bank's
supervisory activities. Finally, proposed changes in enforcement powers as spelled out in the
Central Bank Law currently under preparation are also necessary to support contingency
planning as part of the overall changes in banking supervision.
SECURMTiES MARKETS
109.  Brazil's capital markets performance in 2001 reflected the macroeconomic uncertainties
facing the country, and especially, turbulence in the US and overseas markets from September.
Early optimism in 2001, following a year of good macroeconomic performance, was reflected in
a boost of the BOVESPA stock index by almost 16 percent in January alone (from 15,260 to
17,672) but this soon faded first due to the domestic energy crisis and then the decline in
overseas markets and investor confidence. The index reached a low towards the end of
September at 10,005 on Sep 26, down over 30 percent compared to the start of the year.
Although there was a subsequent year end rally, with calmer intemational markets and positive
national indicators, the market ended 11 percent down over the year as a whole. Trading volume
also declined over the year, with an aggregate fall of 18.8 percent in total turnover and a 2.4
percent decline in market capitalization. Despite 36 new registrations of companies on the
BOVESPA exchange, mostly due to consolidations, restructurings or buybacks, there were also
52 withdrawals, reducing the overall number of public companies by 16, and the number of
listed companies traded on the exchange by thirty-one (428 down from 459).
110.  Yet, in regulatory terms landmark advances were made over this period. As noted in the
documentation for the first PFSECAL, deficiencies in corporate governance, which leave
minority shareholders unduly exposed to risks of expropriation by controlling shareholders have
been a major obstacle to the development of Brazil's securities markets.64 The passage of a
64 Because of poor proportional representation on boards, non-adherence to the one-share-one-vote principle, and
the lack of "tag along" rights (which enable minority shareholders to "tag along" and obtain the same price as the
controlling shareholder in the event of a change in corporate control). Other problems are the limited voting shares
and even more limited trading of voting shares Practically the entire "public float" (the set of shares traded) consists
of non-voting shares.
Page 41



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
revised Corporate Law for Brazil which incorporates significant changes which address
many of the shortcomings noted in the governance framework for public companies is a
major legislative advance for the financial sector. The second major advance is the passage
of amendments to Law 6385/76 governing Brazil's Securities Commission, the Comissdo de
Valores Mobiliarios (CVM) which strengthen its enforcement capacity and independence.
111. Revisions to the former Corporate law; Law 6404 / 76 are embodied in the new Law
10303/01, signed on October 31, 2001, and effective from March 4, 2002. Despite opposition,
the final version of the Corporate law which was approved by the Senate in September 2001
suffered no changes at all compared to the version which was passed by the House in March
2001 (which suffered major compromises compared to early versions). The only changes to
occur in the final version were as a result of Presidential veto. Most of the vetoed articles of the
bill were removed largely due to technical inadequacies in the draft law. However one
(politically pre-negotiated) veto which was substantive from the point of view of govemance
would have strengthened the appointment of minority shareholders representatives on the
'conselho fiscal' - an internal inspection committee.65
112.   Revisions proposed in the same bill for the CVM law were vetoed by the president due to
a legal technicality, but simultaneously issued in the form of a Decree Law - Medida Provis6ria
- (No. 8, also of October 31, 2001 - now converted into Law 10411 of February 26, 2002) and
66
an Autonomous Decree (No. 3995 of the same date).        A (prenegotiated) veto in this context
affects the enforcement authority of the CVM, which had sought to limit recourse to appeals
against its decisions.67 The provision regarding the creation of an independent accounting body
('Comite de Padroes Contdbeis - CPC') was also declared by gpvernment attorneys to be
unconstitutional and as a result, was removed from the Law by a veto, and could not be
incorporated in the Medida Provis6ria or the Decree. However, a pending draft law on
accounting changes is being discussed in one of the technical committees of the House of
65 Also sometimes referred to as the internal audit committee, but its authority is weaker than the term suggests.
Article 161-5, of the Corporate law, which established that this committee ('conselho fiscal') have three members:
one elected by the controlling shareholders, the second member elected by minority shareholders (including
preferred shareholders), and the third member elected by representatives of both controlling and minority
shareholders. If such representatives would not reach an agreement as to the election of this third members, (s)he
would be elected by a special shareholders' meeting, in which each share would be entitled to one vote. This article
would have increased minority shareholder representation on the audit committee.
66 This was due to legal objections raised after the passage of the bill through both houses of Congress regarding the
capacity of Congress to legislate changes in an independent regulatory agency which is established by the executive
branch of government. As a result, all articles in Proposal 3115 which referred to the CVM were vetoed by the
President and reissued by him through an Autonomous Decree for articles referring to CVM's internal matters (as
permitted based on Constitutional Amendment 32,) and through a Decree Law (now Law 10411) as described
above, for key issues on the mandate of the CVM.
67 This veto refers to Article 11-4 of the CVM law according to which the decisions of the Commission in
enforcement procedures would not be subject to appeal to the Conselho de Recursos do Sistema Financeiro
Nacional, (CRSFN) an administrative court of appeals that has the authority to review such decisions in
administrative procedures of CVM, the Central Bank and SUSEP, the administrator of insurance and open-ended
pension funds.
Page 42



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Representatives.68 A summarized evaluation of gains in the new Corporate Law is presented in
the box below.
113.   CVM   has a large agenda for the issue of reinforcing implementing regulations for the
new corporate law, and on other themes, for the year ahead. Their issue has awaited the passage
of the revisions of the Corporate law and CVM law, so that they could be consistent with the
anticipated new legal framework. As noted above, CVM's regulatory role is anticipated to have a
major impact on the implementation of the new Corporate Law. From the end of 2001, the issue
of such regulations by CVM accelerated. CVM has already issued Instruction No. 358 (January
3, 2002) which regulates the disclosure of securities related material information. and Instruction
361 (March 5, 2002) concerning tender offers. This Instruction will regulate some of the new
provisions of the Corporate Law, such as the mandatory tender offer in the case of sale of the
corporate control, and presents some significant improvements in this area. With regard to new
regulations on public offerings, including prospectuses, CVM Commissioners are currently
discussing an initial internal draft. Several other Instructions are being prepared, some of which
have already been submitted to the CVM's Commissioners for comments, such as a new
regulation on broker-dealers, which will also apply to derivatives broker-dealers. Parallel to this,
the CVM is preparing, at its highest levels, a Corporate Governance code. An initial draft has
already been prepared. Reforms are also being considered in the area of regulation of rating
agencies.
114.   With regard to the regulation of mutual funds, a major change has been realized through
the passage of new laws; finally, the CVM has been awarded the responsibility for
jurisdiction over all mutual funds, both debt funds and equity funds.69 The CVM and the
Central Bank are jointly reviewing the practical implications of bringing all mutual funds under
CVM's regulation, i.e., CVM's ability, in view of its resource constraints, to cope with this
challenge. Once implemented this would represent a significant strengthening of regulation in
the medium term, and has been remarkably achieved without the need for the passage of a
specific law, as was expected a year ago. It was also expected, a year ago, that a new draft
"Central Bank/Capital Markets" law would also formalize the realignment of regulatory
responsibilities for pension funds, thus comprehensively reorganizing supervision between the
Securities Commission, the Central Bank and other regulatory agencies (referred to as the
proposed Central Bank/Financial Institutions Law). However, it is now proposed that the
merger of the regulation of closed and open ended pension funds - the SPC and the SUSEP
68 As flagged in documentation for the first PFSECAL, independent of proposed amendments to the Corporate Law,
there is a bill before Congress (3741 of 2000) which also proposes the election of a new accounting standards setting
body and details specific proposals for bringing accounting rules more in line with international accounting
standards, especially in the areas of asset evaluation, in the use of statements for sources and uses of funds, and in
requirements for segmenting the presentation of profits by area of activity. This proposed bill also includes a
provision for the publication of the financial statements of large companies, and the need for compliance with
CVM's accounting and disclosure requirements, whether or not listed. There is a possibility that it could be voted
upon before end-June. In addition, the government is pursuing further accounting and auditing reforms on a broad
front, through new accounting reforms for financial institutions, under the Central Bank, and also through the CVM
and the Ministry of Finance. Meanwhile, the Bank and IMF are undertaking a ROSC on accounting and auditing in
Brazil, under an ongoing FSAP, which will provide timely input on these issues.
69 Although there is no specific article in the revised laws on this, it is implied by the definition of the 'securities'
which CVM is responsible for overseeing, in the revised CVM law.
Page 43



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
- will take place in the present year through an executive order, probably by decree. Taken
together, these measures would imply that the objectives of a major anticipated legal change, the
passage of a new law on financial institutions, has effectively been achieved.
115.  Also in the area of pension funds, the creation of new defined contribution pension funds
for government employees is also now envisaged. A new measure has recently been passed,
which requires pension funds to match the duration of their assets and liabilities, thus
creating an increased demand for long term paper such as securitized mortgages and long-
term government indexed paper. Meanwhile new requirements for the marking to market
of securities portfolios and their division into hold and trade categories will render the
operations of pension funds more transparent and contribute to increased financial
soundness.70 Another new regulation strengthening pension fund governance has also been
issued by the Conselho de Gestao da Previdencia Complementar (SPC) which demands that
pension funds representatives disclose the content and the justification of their votes in
shareholders' meetings of corporations in which pension funds holds interests.71 Together
these measures would represent major advances in the area of contractual savings.
116.  Meanwhile, CVM has issued new Instructions regulating mutual funds for asset backed
securities (Instruction 356 of December 17, 2001 on the FIDC) and another on mutual funds for
indexed assets, which have been formally permitted for the first time in 2002 (Instruction 359 of
January 22, 2001).
70 Circular No. 3086 of the Central Bank, of February 15, 2002.
71Resolution No. 1 of the Ministry of Pensions and Social Security, issued on December 19, 2001.
Page 44



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
The New Corporate Law (10303),and Revisions to the CVM Law 10411 or February 26,2002.         -
YThe Mrost important changes introduced by the nevi Corporatc 1a;w.'(which are incorporated in Article 2 of the ncw
otherwise noled) are.
- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~~         q ,, ,   -e -  ,  3,.  .-                    et          -1n3 'i    f.~  -  -,
-)      (X Article 254a of former law, Article 3,of.new law) Resoration of tag-along uights (i e., rights of minonrty shareholderss
to receive share prices offered to controling, shareholders-iii' sale of corporate control), at 80 percent for minority
ordinary voting shares The discount of 20 percent is a loss&compared the 100 percemit Lag-along nghts recognized up to
1997, when such nghts were abolished in the context of the sale of some state-owned enterprises, the 80 percent is
significant compared to the high premtia for. controLlers shares of recent transactions. The buyer can also offer an
alternative to the Investors. the minimum of 8b percent as above. or to pay in cash the dcfference between the markef
pnce and 80 percent of the controllers'pnce': Minonrty shareholders would thus remnain with the company and total
market liquidity would increase. .  -.            *
(ii)  . (Article 4 and 4a of former law) Obligatory.tender offerait ,"fair value' in delisting or cases when the CIM deems.
that the free float 'alis below a percentage thai restrains liqwudity. Also under certain situations, rmnonry shareholders
can request a new valuation of the FaLr price. Tlus protects minonry shareholders even in situations when they hold non
'vonng or preference shares. ,
(ia)   a(Artcle 14 .of forner aw) EiectfonbkiBoard Members bynon-contrboling shareholders i;ne or mote members of
the, Board of Directors may be elected by (i) ordinary shareholders that represent at least 15 percent of voting shares,
and by (b) Preferred shareholders that represent at least 10 percent total capital. If the number of shareholders in each of
the categones (i) and (il) does not reach the minimtum quorum to elect a board member,'then' they may join together to.
elect one Boaird member This is to be ftiily'phased'in by.2006. Formerlyj. minorit shareholders had no,reqtured.Board
representauon.           .          ";,,,.,,      . v' 8                                 , -
(iv)    (Article 15 of former law) Restictions on new stock'issue witfi no votng rights. Reduction o maximuproporo
of nonvoting preferred shares to 50 percent, for new companes and [POs of private companies going public (Iowever,
for companies which are already public. tbey can maintairt their present structure of two thirds of non-voting and onef;'
tiurd of voting-shares, as at present. The immediate effecl of this'will therefore be limited).  -
(v)     (Article 17 of former law) CreMion of genuine privileges for preference shares. Holders of non-voting preference
shares must receive. either at least 10 percent per share more dividends than voLing shares, or certam other privileges.
(In the former situation.' the totality of all nonvoting preference had to receive 10 percenl'more in dividends than
ordinary shares, which was easily met due to the much larger outstanding volume of PN shares. While a slep forward,'
this is a relatively smnall distinction).        ,  '
(vi).  -Other positive changes include  tte ava iability-o inforfation for Shareholders Meetings (Article 133 and 135 of
former law); and also, an increase inthe notfication period ror a'Shareholders meeting (Article 124 of former law,-
(from 8 to 15 days for regular meeLings and up to 30 days.at the discretion of the CVM Arfiitrationclfauses (Article,
109 of former law) have been permitted for inclusion in company by-laws for the first fime. Fina,ly. althoughltbe right
of appointment of members of the iternal uispection committee by mnority shareholders was vetoed, the right of such
Board members to take actions individually uistead of collectively, acting exdusively in the interests of the
company. wasaJsoappro'ed (Artile,sd163-165 of former law),. ;  -2,-              I
Revisions to the CV'M law include provisions for     ' '.-m>'i;                   -.;'  <   >; ;':,
(i)  :  Operational and budgetary independence to the CVM, enhancing its status among public entities to an autonomous
regulatory agency with legal autonomy, an independent admunistrative authonty and separaLe assets and liabilities. The
self-financing capacity bestowed on CVNI is-of'huge-operational significance to the  cy,  fonely remitted a
significant surplus to the Treasury from its' receipts. CVM  will have a fixed mandate' and stable adiniistrators,
designated by the President and cleared by Senate. w'ith azfive.year non-renew able fixed lerm.. Commissioners mandates
w'll now be independent ofte  istryofFinance.      -   'C.
'he Mnis  o  Fac,   ' ,Jt.2
(ii)    Extension of authority of CVm to supervise the Futuresanud Options Exchanges.      ' 
(iii)   Extension of authority of CVM'to spervise'all1mutual runds (including'febtufunds, formerly under the Central'
(IV)     Enhancement of Enforcement Capacity. CVM's powers,of investigatuon and examinanon for deLernination of
wrongdoing have been expanded Insider trading has been declared to be a criminal offense.
Page 45



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
117. Strong efforts had been made around a year ago (December 2000) by BOVESPA,
Brazil's stock exchange, to support good governance through the setting up of the Novo
Mercado, particularly designed to attract new corporate listings or IPOs which follow good
governance standards and through the parallel designation of different levels of good governance
for existing listed companies.72 These efforts have made limited progress so far. By end 2001,
only nineteen companies had enrolled as Level 1 (the less stringent level) companies, and no
existing companies had progressed to Level 2. And the first listing on the Novo Mercado
occurred on February 1, 2002.73 However, this was also the first IPO in Brazil since May 2000.
Poor macro and market conditions have certainly been a large factor in the limited success so far
of these measures. BOVESPA is optimistic about further progress on Novo Mercado listings,
and on listings under the two good governance levels, by April 2002. BOVESPA's IGC index, an
index of the good governance companies, has shown an increasing spread over its all-share
index, the IBOVESPA, over the past year.74 As for BNDESpar, some incentives of lower
funding costs have been introduced for companies which want to increase transparency. With
regard to its investment in new private equity funds, increased investment is offered to those
companies which agree to eventually go public in the Novo Mercado. However, given that exit
from these companies will take some years, the impact on the market is difficult to gauge today.
THE PAYMENTS SYSTEM
118.   To summarize the description of the Central Bank's ambitious program for redesigning
Brazil's payment's system infrastructure, the core of the program encompasses a series of actions
aimed at eliminating the risks incurred by the Central Bank, and at transferring residual risks to
relevant private participants in the payments system under new rules and oversight.75 The legal
framework for reforms was established by provisional Decree Law 2008, issued in December
1998, and subsequently modified and reissued as Law 10214 of March 27, 2001. The law clearly
conferred on the Central Bank the oversight responsibility for the payments system while
establishing the framework for defining the rights and responsibilities of private participants in
the payments process. Based upon this legal framework, the Central Bank is far advanced with
the installation of a new settlement system (Sistema de Transferencia de Reservas - STR), which
will settle in real time and on a gross basis transfers of funds on bank reserve accounts - 'real
time gross settlement' (RTGS), which will achieve the objective of eliminating Central Bank
risk, since payments will only be made if there are positive and sufficient balances in the reserve
account to be debited. This system is consistent with best international practice.
72 For details on BOVESPA's Novo Mercado, and its codes of governance, go to http://www.bovespa.com.br/.
Companies already listed on Bovespa are of course allowed to migrate to the Novo Mercado if they follow its
requirements. Three companies have already published material information about their proposed migration to Novo
Mercado including one for Level 2 (Petrobras), and at least another three are preparing for adhesion to Level 1.
73 CCR, Cia. de Concessoes Rodovi6rias, a listing of a basket of toll road concessions.
74 In June 2001, the two indices both stood at around 1000; by end-January 2002, the IGC was at almost 1050 while
the IBOVESPA was just above the 950 mark.
75 World Bank Report No. P7448-BR; April 26, 2001, on the First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan, Annex 7, has details on the payments system reform. For an update, see Annex 4 to the present document.
Meanwhile, a ROSC on Brazil's payments systems currently underway in the FSAP will likely validate the
compliance of the present system with CPSS principles.
Page 46



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
119. Recent Update on Payment System Reform From the time of the launching of the
payments system reform program, the scheduled official date for the new STR system was
announced by the Central Bank to be October 2001. However in September 2001 the Central
Bank announced that the final launch of the new Brazilian large value payments system would
be postponed from October, 2001 to April 22, 2002. The reasons indicated were lack of
readiness of the ten largest commercial banks as well as the several clearinghouses which will
integrate the new system. Meanwhile, the Central Bank also suffered equipment delivery delays.
The new timetable was defined in Circular 3060 of the Central Bank, dated September 20,
2001, which also set a timetable for interim tests. Delays are not surprising; a Bank mission had
earlier commented on the ambitious goals previously announced, possibly in part to spur on
complementary actions required in private participants. The new date was determined in concert
with major private participants, through consultations with the Banker's Association,
FEBRABAN, and was realistic, as shown by its achievement on the target date. Circular 3059
also of September 20, 2001 provides that all securities managed by the CETIP will also have to
be settled on the same day of their maturity or of the maturity of their financial rights (dividends,
interests, etc.).
120.  Meanwhile Brazil continued to take steps towards successively completing the definition
of the regulatory framework within which the new system will operate. Circular 3032 of May
9, 2001 provided for the monitoring of reserve accounts of banks at the BCB. Resolution 2882
of August 30, 2001 dealt with broad principles for risk management at clearing houses. It
specified nine general rules which payments system operators must comply with; rules that
resemble very closely the CPSS Core Principles for Systemically Important Payments System of
the BIS. Circular 3057 of August 31, 2001 approved the detailed regulation of the functioning
of clearinghouses and other payment system operators and defined several features which these
entities should present in terms of capital requirements, transparency, risk control measures,
operational requirements, etc. It also established a formula to determine whether a system is
systemically important, based on the average value of the largest transaction and-or the
aggregate value, both over a time span. Additionally, the Central bank also took proactive
measures to eliminate risks inherent in the check clearinghouse by incentives to drastically
reduce the amount of large value items. A threshold of R$5,000 was identified through
simulations and estimates of average daily clearing house balances and the Central Bank put in
place a mechanism of unremunerated collateralized pre-funding for all checks above this value.
121. Additional measures have been taken which even if not directly associated with the
payments system reform, are likely to impact positively upon its smooth operation On July 26,
2001, the National Monetary Council enacted Resolution 2878 on transparency in financial
transactions, which is known through international experience to strongly benefit efficient
development of a country's payments system. And since June 2001 a new system for handling
suspect banknotes is in place. Other Circulars relating to payments system issues are under
consultation. Among them is a circular to provide access to reserve accounts at the Central Bank
to investment banks and similar financial institutions, and also a circular to redefine rediscount
procedures.
Page 47



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN
122.  Programmatic adjustment lending for the financial sector was included in the most recent
CAS progress report (Report 22116-BR discussed on May 24, 2001), and its objective of
strengthening the framework for accelerated and systemically sound growth is an essential part
of Bank assistance for renewed broad-based economic growth and thus poverty reduction. The
proposed Single Tranche US$404.04 million Second Progranunatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan is the second in a series of programmatic loans for the financial sector of
Brazil, and follows a First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, which was
approved by the Bank's Board in May 2001, and a Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Loan, approved on September 4,2001.
123.  Brazil has show strong commitment to the maintenance of its comprehensive and
ambitious financial sector reform path over the past year, despite difficult macroeconomic
circumstances, exceeding expectations in many areas, and with an acceleration of structural
change in some of the most critical and difficult areas. Authorities have progressed steadily
towards taking all steps envisaged within the program, to increase the efriciency of
financial intermediation and broadening access to financial services, in strengthening
banking supervision and resolution systems, in progressing with payments systems
reforms, and in reducing barriers to more broad based participation in securities' markets.
In addition, particularly notable are its bold steps towards recognizing liabilities at the
federal banks which form the core of Brazil's financial system and to shield such publicly
owned financial institutions in the future from government mandated losses. There is also a
possibility of fundamental changes in financial sector legislation through the passage of a
Constitutional amendment, which would permit institutional realignment of responsibilities for
financial regulatory institutions. This would also permit the presentation to Congress of a revised
Central Bank law instituting monetary policy independence.
124.  Progress with goals and targets for programmatic reform, as envisaged at the time of the
first loan, as well as additional achievements and targets which constitute pillars of the proposed
second loan, together with expected future reforms, are detailed in Annex 1. The government
has further elaborated its reform program in a Letter of Sectoral Development Policy, transmitted
to the Bank.76 By any standards, the current financial sector reform program envisaged by
Brazil's government is bold and ambitious, and provided expected momentum is maintained, will
be far-reaching and fundamental to Brazil's economic development.
125.  Adjustment lending would support effective and continuing structural reforms to address
the key objectives of fiscal stability and renewed growth and would contribute to Brazil's
external financing requirements of US$47 billion and its nominal public sector deficit of 3.4
percent of GDP in 2002. About US$4.8 billion of this is expected to be met by public sector
lending including multilateral disbursements, and the proposed Second Programmatic Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan, together with the US$450 million FY02 Energy Sector Adjustment
Loan would together remain under the adjustment lending ceiling foreseen by the CAS. Another
Programmatic Fiscal Adjustment Loan could be proposed in FY03.
76 The letter will be made publicly available by the Government when the Government submits the proposed Loan
to the Brazilian Senate for approval.
Page 48



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
126.  On the basis of its importance for growth and poverty reduction, and given the evidence
of reform progress, the Government and the Bank have reconfirmed the financial sector as a
priority area for assistance through programmatic adjustment lending. Programmatic lending
for the financial sector was proposed for a total amount of up to US$1.2 billion, in FY01,
over two to three operations, depending on the progress of reform. Of this sum, $404.04
million has already been disbursed for a first, FY01 operation. The present second loan is
proposed for a similar amount of another US$404.04 million. Programmatic lending is
envisaged to include a possible third additional loan, which would span the period of transition
following the October 2002 elections and thus anchor reforms achieved so far, and provide a
vehicle for dialogue with the next administration.
127.  The first programmatic loan has clearly demonstrated the suitability of the proposed
programmatic lending vehicle for the proposed financial sector adjustment operation. The
programmatic approach was considered particularly suitable due to the difficulty of prediction of
core actions subject to politically sensitive legislative changes. As in the case of the first
operation, the proposed Second Programmatic Loan is in direct support of actions already
completed, and comprises a blend of substantial progress with actions expected at the time
of the First Loan, and additional difficult reforms whose timing was difficult to envisage
only a year ago.
128.  Due to the unpredictability, only a year ago, of the likely pace of reforms of federal
banks, and uncertainties regarding a number of legislative changes, such reforms had been left
largely outside the programmatic sphere of the First Loan. The flexibility afforded by the
programmatic adjustment framework permits the present operation to support and partner recent
and significant progress achieved in reform areas deemed to be outside the first adjustment
operation, while simultaneously acknowledging excellent progress with meeting, and in many
cases exceeding, virtually all expected reform landmarks as envisaged by the first operation. The
combination of these two broad groups of elements forms the basis for the present operation.
With the unexpected acceleration of reforms in areas previously deemed to be
unpredictable and sensitive, and the opening up of government dialogue with the Bank on
these reform areas, particularly public bank reform, the present operation extends the
frontiers of the Bank supported program to a substantially larger range of the
Government's overall financial sector reform agenda. (See Annex 1 for details).
129.  The series of programmatic adjustment operations to Brazil's financial sector have been,
and continue to be, supported by an extensive partnership based on analytical and advisory
work (AAA), technical assistance lending and continuous dialogue at the highest levels. The
backbone of this partnership was originally the Bank's first technical assistance loan to the
Central Bank, which had a major emphasis on banking regulation and supervision (Loan BR-
4245 of 1997), and which also provided flexibly for support for the modernization of the Central
Bank in a range of other areas. Work launched through this loan on the strengthening of bank
supervision contributed to the issuing of a series of prudential regulations to safeguard banking
system soundness, and also to the program of onsite-supervision referred to as the Consolidated
Global Inspections, which were applied for the first time to Federal banks in 1999-2000. The
present program of Federal bank balance sheet restructuring has its underpinnings in the
application on the basis of inspection reports of recently issued prudential regulations, which the
Federal Banks are now required to be in compliance with. Themes included in the first
Page 49



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
programmatic loan, and continued in the second, on orderly bank failure resolution and on the
strengthening of the were first discussed with the government by the Bank in 1998, in the context
of the preparation of a Special Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
130.  Over the 1999-2000 period, as noted in the documentation for the first programmatic
financial sector loan, exchanges and policy discussion on Brazil's financial system with the Bank
grew more extensive and exploratory in scope, expanding and deepening to encompass a number
of jointly selected new areas, through a series of FY00 targeted policy notes, on the overall
efficiency of financial intermediation ("Impediments to the Development and Efficiency of
Financial Intermediation in Brazil"), regulatory issues ("Optimal Regulatory and Supervisory
Structures: Economic Issues"), debt management and debt markets, as well as more
comprehensive study on capital markets ("Corporate Governance Reform Issues in the Brazilian
Equities Markets").  Additionally, as part of a multi-country Western Hemisphere project, a
detailed study was completed on payments systems and securities clearance and settlement. The
dialogue also included municipal finance, as well as pension reform, also supported by both
lending and ESW. Issues concerning poverty and the financial sector were first approached, and
initially tackled through a hands-on involvement by the Bank, in the form of a microfinance
project (CrediAmigo; Loan No. 4554) which has proven to be very successful.
131.  Further new areas of joint exploration have begun in 2001. FY02 began with the
presentation to the Bank's Board of a second Technical Assistance loan (Loan No. 4637-BR) for
Brazil's financial sector, which this time partners Brazil's Securities Commission, the CVM, in
addition to the Central Bank. Intended to support the implementation of programmatic lending,
as well as to build capacity in the two institutions for the implementation of their mandates, the
new technical assistance loan considerably extends the frontiers of the Bank's engagement in
Brazil's financial sector. The second major area of collaboration is on finance and poverty, which
has been launched in FY02 though a major study, undertaken at the request of and in
collaboration with the Central Bank of Brazil, on Access to Financial Services. The study has
received strong support as well as funding from the Bank's financial sector network and is the
most ambitious of its kind to be undertaken so far in the Bank. It includes an investigation of
overall impediments to the expansion of microfinance in Brazil, an exploration of the potential
for the 'downscaling' of private and commercial bank lending to smaller and poorer borrowers;
evaluations of public policies for access, many of which operate through the large federal banks,
and infrastructure impediments, including credit information, efficiency of small value
payments, and related themes. Examinations of rural finance and housing finance are part of the
agenda. The work on housing finance involves an examination of the operations of the present
system, currently dominated by the largest of Brazil's Federal banks; the Caixa Economica
Federal, which has not only been cooperative but solicitous of Bank inputs and suggestions for
the strengthening of the housing finance system.
REFORM PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY THE BANK
132. The status of the overall Programmatic Reform, covering actions completed in the
currently proposed Second phase, actions achieved in the First phase, as well as possible future
77 The major papers were reviewed in FYO1 by the Quality Assurance Group and received favorable comments.
Page 50



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
actions for a potential Third programmatic phase, is shown in Annex 1. Details of the present
proposed second operation are discussed below, both in the context of expectations at the onset
of financial sector programmatic lending, as well as in view of the rapid evolution of sectoral
reforms over the last twelve month. Possible future actions, in addition to those below, could also
be expanded by the joint Bank-Fund FSAP (financial sector assessment program) currently under
way in Brazil.
Progress on Targets under the First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
133.  Reforms supported by the first programmatic loan comprised actions to (i) raise
efficiency in financial intermediation, reduce intermediation costs and broaden access; (ii)
promote the soundness of the banking system and its defenses against financial crisis; (iii)
enhance transparency, promoting good governance, and strengthening the regulator in securities
markets; and (iv) protect the safety and soundness of the financial system through payments
systems reforms. Broadly speaking, targets envisaged by the first loan have been met or
exceeded in virtually all areas, as revealed in the financial sector update in Part IV. Within these
broad areas, key specific elements supported under the first loan, actions envisaged for
subsequent programmatic lending and their status of achievement, and hence, actions supported
by the proposed Second Programmatic Adjustment operation are detailed below. Actions which
could be envisaged for a possible third phase operation are also discussed. Broadly speaking,
targets envisaged by the first loan have been met or exceeded in virtually all areas, as revealed in
the financial sector update in Part IV.
134.  Intermediation Eficiency and Access to Financial Services: With respect to high
financial intermediation spreads, actions supported under the First Loan included increased
disclosure of debtor information by the Central Bank Risk Center and improved credit
enforcement through the creation of a new lending contract (the Cedula de Credito Bancdrio),
and the submission to Congress of new legislation to overhaul bankruptcy laws. Core indicative
actions for a second phase included wide availability of enhanced debtor information, and
confirmation by law of the new "Cedula" instrument. In terms of achievements, supported by
the proposed Second Programmatic Loan, the Risk Center is now producing considerably
enhanced information, on an extended range of small value loans, and encompassing a range of
micro institutions not hitherto included. A contract has been signed, and work has been launched
for a further phase. The Cedula now has the status of a legal instrument, and has been extended
in terms of application, beyond expectations. Additional indicative actions including studies on
taxation and the preparation of new draft legislation on bankruptcy and bank failure resolution
are ongoing. Overall progress is therefore deemed to be very satisfactory. Core indicative
action envisaged today for a Third phase could include a review of limitations on information
sharing under the new Risk Center, and, as foreseen earlier, the passage through Congress of a
new bankruptcy law. With regard to taxation of financial services, as planned, assessments of the
impact of the CPMF had been made which reveal its adverse impact on the financial system.
135. Broadened access to financial services was supported in the First loan through
regulatory steps taken to extend banking service by authorizing banks to use locations other than
branches, and reducing restrictive membership rules for cooperatives. Indicative Actions
anticipated for the Second and Third phases of programmatic lending focused on the
formulation of a strategy and action plan to further expand financial services, including through
Page 51



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
the collateralization of credit. Achievements to date, supported by the proposed Second
Programmatic Loan, include the setting up of a high level investigative committee on
microfinance which has produced detailed Action Plans on the expansion of microcredit,
collaboration in a broad ranging Bank study on access to financial services, the government's
auction of the franchise of post offices to financial institutions, for the extension of the network
of provision of financial services, the programs being offered by SEBRAE to microcredit
institutions, and the initiation of sales of retail government bonds to individual savers.
Expectations in this area have not only been met but exceeded, and Bank dialogue in this
area has intensified. In a Third phase, the govemment could adopt further measures to expand
the role of microcredit or other forms of private finance, while rationalizing the role of
govemment and of federal banks in supporting access.
136. Bank System Soundness and Safety Net: The First programmatic loan supported bank
regulation/supervision reforms including the introduction of consolidated supervision of
financial conglomerates, strengthening of capital adequacy standards, creation of a sound system
of asset classification that supports more rigorous provisioning rules, major organizational
streamlining within the supervision department of the Central Bank, progress in completing new
examination manuals and initiation of a new bank rating system. A review program of the bank
exit framework and the role of the deposit insurance was also supported and a decision was
reached to begin work on a contingency plan for bank crises. Core actions anticipated for a
Second phase included the introduction of examination manuals and a bank rating system and
submission to Congress of a law to better protect bank supervisors, together with submission for
approval of draft legislation on bank resolution as well as new draft statutes for the deposit
insurer. Approval of a contingency plan was also anticipated.
137.  Achievements in these areas, which constitute actions supported by the Second
Programmatic Loan, demonstrate sustained progress in strengthening banking supervision. All
anticipated projects under the Banking supervision superintendency are underway and are
expected to be complete within the year. Despite an enhancement in scope of work, new
examination manuals are expected to be completed by August 2002, and a new offsite
surveillance system was completed at the end of 2001 and is now operational. After some early
delays, contracts for the further extension of the Credit Risk Center have been approved and
work has been initiated and is proceeding well. The completion of this phase of extension is
anticipated to be around November 2002. Meanwhile regulations have been issued extending the
scope of institutions which are required to submit data to this Center. Work has also been
initiated on the design and introduction of a new bank rating system, which is expected to be
completed by July 2002. Progress in new regulatory reforms in areas such as accounting were
not anticipated and are welcome additions to the proposed program.
138.  One hoped for action is undoubtedly falling behind and this is the presentation to
Congress of a law to better protect supervisors. Despite strong backing from the Central Bank,
political opposition has been encountered which would make it difficult, and indeed largely
fruitless at the present juncture, to present such a proposal to Congress. As such, delays in
submission are disappointing but not altogether surprising to Bank staff. Viewed within the
larger picture, however, this does not dilute the overall judgment of substantial fulfillment of
program goals in the area of the strengthening of bank supervision. Anticipated core actions for a
Third Phase are the effective operation of the new off-site surveillance system and its generation
Page 52



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
of simulations, reports and stress tests, as well as the application of examination manuals and the
new bank rating system to the supervision process. The proposed draft Central Bank law could
also be a vehicle to afford some protection to bank supervisors. These issues could be discussed
and agreed with the new administration in CY03.
139.  Regarding bank resolution and the safety net, high level consultancy services have
been contracted by the Central Bank for the complex review of the bank exit framework and the
preparation of draft new legislation in this area. In parallel, the deposit insurance agency, FGC,
has also reviewed its statutes and has proposed recommendations for their strengthening and
modification, for incorporation in a proposed new resolution of the National Monetary Council.
140.  The Central Bank has also prepared an initial blueprint for contingency crisis planning,
with the support of suitable international experts, which has been favorably reviewed by the
Bank. In sum, there is steady and very satisfactory progress on all fronts with regards to
actions envisaged for the strengthening of supervision and bank failure resolution. Delays
of a few months are acknowledged with regard to the further enhancement of the Credit Risk
Center and the introduction of the bank rating system, and work is well under way. A longer
delay is anticipated with regard to the submission to Congress of draft new legislation for bank
failure resolution and bank exit, and this is largely due to the extreme complexity of the task, and
the inclusion in its ambit of consideration the roles for several different players, including the
judiciary. Delays in the submission of early proposals are partially due to the recognition of
imperfections and consequent discussions of new drafts. While this necessitates a partial return
to the drawing board, it is likely to lead to sounder proposals, which have been more thoroughly
reviewed and debated, in the long term. Finally, core actions for a Third phase could include
publication of new laws for the bank exit framework and new deposit insurance statutes. Further
formal progress on the contingency plan, although envisaged in the First Loan, is not a core
action for the third phase, given its time sequencing, which requires that certain actions are
completed (e.g., the bank rating system, offsite surveillance, and protection to supervisors)
before much progress can be made.
141. Payments and Securities Clearance and Settlement Systems: The First programmatic
loan supported the launch of landmark reforms in Brazil's payments system, aimed at first,
reducing systemic risk and Central Bank exposure to loss in the settlement of payments, and
second, ensuring the prudent management of residual risks by private participants in the clearing
process, was recognized and by the first programmatic loan. Core actions for the Second phase
targeted the implementation and functioning of the new payment system and the issue of the
guidelines for risk management at private clearing houses. In terms of achievements, the Second
Loan will support first of all the launching of the new payments system. While some delays
have occurred in its full operationalization, these were not unexpected in view of the ambitious
initial launch schedule of October 2001 announced by the Central bank, partly with a view to
motivate and energize participant private banks. The revised launch date, set at April 22, 2002,
was achieved. The new date was determined in September 2001, and for the first time enjoyed
the consensus and support of the private banks, through a formal agreement with FEBRABAN,
the National Association of Banks. The Second Loan also supports the issue of a series of
additional regulations which clarify the legal framework in which the new system will
operate, notably Circular 3057 of August 31, 2001, which approves statues of clearing
houses, and Resolution 2882 of August 30, 2001 which deals with broad principles for risk
Page 53



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
management at clearing houses. Future reforms in this area for a third loan could include
evidence of the full and satisfactory functioning of the new payments system, and satisfactory
operations of clearing houses, with special attention to risk management.
142. Securities Markets: The first loan supported Brazil's progress in modernizing corporate
governance and in the regulatory framework and enforcement, including the submission to
Congress of the Corporate Law, and the issuance of good govemance guidelines by the stock
exchange, BNDESPAR (equity investment subsidiary of Brazil's National Development Bank)
and the pension fund regulator. The second programmatic phase envisaged support for the
approval of the revised Corporate and CVM laws, the issue of additional regulations to perfect
and consolidate minority shareholder protection, and submission to Congress of a new Central
Bank/Financial Systems law to develop an effective securities' market regulatory structure. In
terns of achievements, the landmark passage of the Corporate law has now taken place
and it will be effective from March 1, 2002. This may be regarded as progress with
fundamental financial system legislation. Moreover, proposed amendments of the CVM
law enhancing its enforcement capacity have also been approved, and a revised CVM law
was issued in February 2002.
143. The passage of the Corporate Law and revisions to the CVM law has now accelerated the
pace of issue of accompanying regulations to the new law, to consolidate new principles of
governance. A first CVM Instruction on disclosure of material information was issued early this
year (No. 358 of January 3, 2002); followed swiftly by another comprehensive regulation on
tender offers which will lend protection to minority shareholders (No. 361 of March 5, 2002).
There is an impressive agenda of further regulations that the CVM is now in the process of
issuing, which will provide the practical guidelines for the implementation of governance
changes. The second loan supports the progress made by the CVM in the issue of
regulations enhancing good governance and protecting minority shareholders. Core actions
for a Third phase could include the completion of CVM's program of issue of regulations to
accompany the new corporate law, as well as the undertaking by CVM and BOVESPA of an
assessment of the impact of governance changes. Finally, the second operation also supports
the legal achievement of the consolidation of mutual fund oversight (hitherto divided
between the Central Bank and the CVM) under the CVM (though modifications to the
CVM law), and the passage of regulations which strengthen the financial soundness and
governance of pension funds. It is noted also that the consolidation of pension fund regulation
under the SUSEP is also imminent and expected to occur by executive order before year end.
These represent major steps forward in the rationalization of the overall environment for
financial system regulation, achieved without the need for the submission of a Central Bank /
financial institutions law.
Public Bank Reform
144.  This area was not within the scope of the first Loan, due to unpredictability at that
juncture of likely progress in this area, and limited Bank dialogue. Together with the launching
of federal bank reform, there has been an elevation and expansion in Bank dialogue with
authorities in Brazil, to include a discussion and detailed examination of these issues. The
present operation first supports measures to increase efficiency and transparency in the
public banks and to clearly separate on paper their relations with the government.
Page 54



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Specifically, the operation seeks to support the first phase of federal bank restructuring, through
(i) Removal of credit risk from the operations funded by the so called "Constitutional Funds"
managed by these banks prior to November 30, 1998; (ii) Agreement to the principle that new
loans from "Constitutional Funds" and other special purpose development funds managed by the
banks will be undertaken with a recognition of the risks entailed. Federal banks can now decide
whether or not they wish to share the credit risk of such loans, receiving higher returns if they
agree to bear such risks;78 (iii) Authorization to the Government to void guarantees given by the
federal banks for rural credits sold to the Government at book value. Thus these banks will not
bear any further responsibility for credit risk on large volumes of old, nonperforrning rural and
real estate loans, which have been swapped with the government for new, negotiable, debt;79 (iv)
Authorization to the government to net out the debit and credit accounts of the federal banks
with the Federation; and finally, (v) Establishing special debt-for-bond swap programs for
various programs/debts held by each of the four federal banks.
145.   In addition, the proposed operation supports the preparation of a blueprint for a time
bound and monitorable action plans for future proposed phases of federal bank reform,
which could help to consolidate the benefits of financial restructuring. Its key features
'include (i) Establishing a framework of accountability with decentralized reporting, providing
for more objective and commercial decision making; (ii) Developing a new commercial
strategy and new products to diversify away from their traditional targeted sectors and
Government-oriented programs; (iii) Organizing activities by major business lines and
separating out Government-related activities; (iv) Improving management information
systems to support the monitoring of the above actions and to view the performance of each
major business line, especially for Government programs, hence enabling performance
monitoring on a risk adjusted basis, and finally, (v) Continued strong supervision,
benchmarking, disclosure and internal transparency of the federal banks. A third operation
could be based on the adoption and execution of such a program.
Fundamental Financial System Legislation
146.   Recognizing progress with the passage of fundamental financial system legislation, core
actions supported by the Second Programmatic Loan are first, the landmark passage of the
Corporate Law and revisions to the Law for the Securities Commission - the CVM law. In
addition, the program recognizes the importance of Constitutional Amendment 32, which
enables the effective conversion into law of many financial and economic measures previously
uncertain, due to the need for their periodic renewal. These include particularly the effective
voiding of the usury law for financial institutions, and the new binding status of the Cedula
instruments; both the Cedula do Cridito Bancdrio and the Cedula do Credito Imobili4rio.
Finally, should the proposed Constitutional Amendment No. 192 achieve passage before year
78 Under option (i) the bank would assume 100 percent of the credit risk and receive a 6 percent return from the
Constitutional Fund. It would also be permitted to consider funds received as part of its Tier 2 capital (subordinated
debt) subject to the overall limit that Tier 2 capital cannot exceed 50 percent of the banks' Tier 1 capital. Under
option (ii) the bank only assumes 50 percent of the credit risk, receives a lower return (3 percent), and cannot deem
funds received to be part of its Tier 2 capital. The main beneficiary of the first option is likely to be Banco do Brasil.
79 Includes transactions related to FUNCAFE, PRODECER II and other credits.
Page 55



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
end, it would represent a major unexpected windfall from a policy viewpoint. This is not
anticipated as a part of the present program, though it could constitute an important element of
a future program. The amendment would permit the regulation of the financial system though a
series of complementary laws. Closely associated with this is the support under the proposed
program for the presentation to Congress of the draft Central Bank law, which would
institutionalize monetary responsibility.
147.  All the above actions are expected to enable the strengthening of the financial system's
basic regulatory framework, thus increasing its safety and efficiency and promoting crisis-free
growth.
DEscRIPTIoN OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
148. The Bank's financial assistance under this Second programmatic loan follows a first
Single-Tranche Loan disbursed in FY01, and now proposes a Second Single-Tranche Loan. An
additional programmatic loans is envisaged, subject to sustained progress in reform
implementation. Similar to the first loan, the Second Loan, in a proposed amnount of US$404.04
million would be likely to disburse soon after effectiveness, as supported policy actions are
already met prior to Board presentation proposed for June 13, 2002. If there is a third loan, it
could disburse in 2003 or beyond.
149. The Bank's financial assistance will help meet Brazil's external financing requirements.
Brazil's external financing requirements in 2002 are estimated at some US$47 billion, based on a
US$20 billion current account deficit (down from US$27 billion a year ago) and US$27 billion
amortization of medium and long term debt (compared to US$29 billion in the previous year).
The role of foreign direct investment in bridging the gap is somewhat reduced, due to
deteriorating world circumstances, with forecast flows for 2002 of US$16 billion (compared to
flows of US$23 billion for 2001. Around US$4.8 billion is expected to be met by public sector
lending including multilateral disbursements, with the remainder being financed by private sector
rollovers. The proposed Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan is in line with
present CAS ceilings, and is presented in parallel with an FY02 Energy Sector adjustment loan.
A Second Programmatic Fiscal Adjustment could be presented in FY03.
150.  In addition to financing part of balance of payments needs, the loan will help meet the
federal government's financing requirements of about $15 billion (3.4 percent of GDP) in 2002
and will help lengthen the term structure of public sector debt and thus reduce vulnerability. In
the context of current international economic uncertainties and the perception of emerging
market country risk, access to alternative external debt financing for Brazil remains unreliable.
The cost of alternative internal and external debt financing has remained high with recent market
vulnerability, resulting from uncertainties related to problems in neighboring Argentina, and the
economic downturn in the US. Sovereign bond spreads, which stood at lows of around 650 in
February 2001, rose to over 970 by the end of September 2001, and have come down since, but
only to around 870 by February 2002. However, the upgrading of Brazil's sovereign ratings in
March 2002 signaled the decoupling for investors of Brazil's prospects from the fate of
Argentina. Finally, support provided by the Bank, soundly anchored in sustained programmatic
lending and the commitment to and achievement of significant structural reform which is integral
Page 56



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
to such lending, plays a pivotal signaling role at this juncture in terms of building market
confidence in Brazil's continued economic stability, and could also reduce somewhat its overall
external borrowing costs.
151.  Phased programmatic financial sector lending to Brazil has been complemented by a
second companion Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan, approved by the Bank's Board in
September 2001, in the amount of US$14.4 million, which includes components to address
reform needs of both the Central Bank and the Securities Commission (CVM). Technical
assistance expenditures of both the existing Central Bank TA loan and the second companion TA
loan have also been designed to pave the way for policy reforms targeted for subsequent
programmatic loans and to build capacity for reform implementation. Technical assistance will
be provided to allow for specialized consulting advice in areas which would fortify the
professional capacity of the two regulatory agencies, to further training, to upgrade information
technology, and to allow for diagnostic studies and legal drafting of proposed new policies. At
the Central Bank, in addition to information technology, specific assistance will be given to
areas such as the successful functioning of the new payments system, through diagnostic work
on risk management, and to the deepening of Brazil's debt markets, through an evaluation of
technological options for government securities markets. Within the CVM, technical assistance
would be focused on enabling the staff to update their skills to meet market requirements, for
example in areas such as corporate valuation and accounting, strengthening investor protection,
increasing disclosure and transparency. In addition, information technology needs for data
analysis, for market surveillance and for enhanced disclosure and investor protection would also
be addressed. Certain areas of specialized consulting advice, focused on regulatory issues jointly
shared by the Central Bank and the CVM, could be shared by both institutions.
Program Implementation and Supervision
152.  As over the past year, regular Bank missions will continue to review progress of the
implementation of the proposed reforms and their outcomes. The review will be based on
specific monitoring of reform actions, monitoring indicators and programmatic goals and targets
of the reforms outlined in Annex 1; on the broader overall view of financial sector evolution in
which the Bank and government are jointly engaged on a number of fronts, and on the progress
in implementing TA loan components in support of the reform direction. Finally, future reform
actions indicated in the Letter of Development Policy submitted by the Government to the Bank
will be closely followed. 80
Compliance with Bank Policies.
153. The loan complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Disbursement, Auditing and Fiduciary Environment
154.  The Loan would disburse under the Bank's provisions for fast disbursing operations,
which require no procurement of goods and services. The flow of proceeds would follow
80 The letter will be made public by the Government in accordance with Brazilian procedures at the time of
submission of the proposed project to the Senate for approval.
Page 57



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
procedures now well established under the prior programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment loan,
and the two associated adjustment loans for fiscal and energy sector reforms. The Bank may
require audits of the account into which the proceeds of the loan will be disbursed.
155.  As discussed in the 2001 CAS Progress Report, and reported in the documentation of the
First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, Brazil has a supportive fiduciary
environment for the proposed operation. Furthermore, the Government is engaged in a
process of strengthening its expenditure review, financial management, procurement and
auditing functions. The Bank has been involved in several of these initiatives.
156.  The Federal Government has over the last years consolidated effective and transparent
expenditure planning, budgeting, and rmancial management systems. These systems include
multi-year planning (Plano Plurianual - PPA), strategic budget planning, the annual law of
budget guidelines, and the budget law itself. The monitoring and evaluation system of the PPA
constitutes a framework for gradually institutionalizing public expenditure reviews that are built
into the regular planning and budgeting cycle.
157. The Brazilian Government and the Bank are finalizing a Country Financial and
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), which reviews the systems and procedures used by the
Government of Brazil at the national level to budget, expend, account for, report on, and audit
the use of funds approved in their annual budget. The report concludes that at the national level,
public financial information is reliable, adequate systems exist to track receipt and use of
funds, and there is a high degree of fiscal transparency. The report notes that the federal
financial management system is among the most effective in the Region. It also raises a number
of areas where further modernization is desirable, including simplification and streamlining of
budget execution processes.
158.  The Government and the Bank have also collaborated in a Country Procurement Issues
Paper (CPIP). This review concluded that while further modernization is recommend in some
areas, the overall framework for public procurement in Brazil is satisfactory, and among the
most robust in the Region. The Government's use of e-procurement is considered best practice.
The CPIP assessment is now being expanded, and the work will be converted into a Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) in FY03.
159.  Regarding  Bank-financed  projects in  general, a  decentralized  Brasilia-based
implementation team of financial management, procurement and disbursement staff help to
maintain high standards with respect to financial management, procurement, and accountability.
Training of executing agency staff in procurement, financial management, disbursement and
auditing under a recently completed IDF grant has helped to strengthen fiduciary capacity.
Proposed future support to the Brazilian Government in the fiduciary area may include a possible
fiduciary LIL to assist the Government of Brazil in addressing the modernization needs
identified in the fiduciary assessments above, as well as implementation of a program of
financial management and procurement assessments at the state level.
160.  Finally, with regard to the ongoing as well as new technical assistance loans to the
Central Bank and to Brazil's Securities Commission, both institutions have show themselves to
be able to comply with the most stringent of financial management reporting requirements, and
Page 58



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
requests have been made for disbursements under the second TA loan (Financial Sector
Technical Assistance Loan; Loan No. 4637-BR) on the basis of project management reports, a
system which requires sophisticated monitoring and tracking of information in a specialized
format, although potentially easier for the borrower once it is installed. Both agencies involved
have shown themselves to be able to produce the required financial reports for compliance.
ENViRONM ENT
161. Although the financial sector is generally been deemed to have few environmental
issues, a review was nonetheless commissioned of potential environmental considerations,
through an investigation by an independent consultant. Main issues included in the terms of
reference for the background study included (i) a broad investigation of present environmental
policies and standards applicable towards both federal and private bank lending; (ii) issues
concerning the application of such standards, at both federal and private banks; and how these
are taken into consideration for credit decisions; (iii) the possibility of the existence of
environmental liabilities in the portfolio of federal banks, which may require restructuring, and
measures taken to deal with such liabilities.
162.   A detailed report has been produced which is available on file; key points to emerge are
summarized here. An Integrated Safeguards datasheet has been filed. As expected and based
both on the Bank's current guidelines, and on the enhanced information produced in the
consultants report, the project is deemed to have no environmental impact (i.e., a "C" rating is
awarded).
163.  The report points out that broad principles covering issues of bank lending and the
environment were established in Brazil in 1995, under the "Protocol Verde".81 The Protocol
Verde Commission promoted a series of positive actions for the systematic incorporation of
environmental issues in credit procedures at the four federal banks, and has had a substantial and
lasting impact on the incorporation of environmentally sound lending practices at these
institutions. Some observers point out that the work of the commission has wound down in the
last two years. However a detailed diagnostic study currently underway at the MMA (Minist&rio
do Meio Ambiente, dos Recursos Hfdricos e da Amaz6nia Legal) on the Commission's work
points out that the apparent reduction is basically to do with refocusing, and that it should be
viewed as an opportunity for repositioning this work with a new emphasis on market-based
instruments for environmental management. Such instruments would focus on the entire range of
financial instruments, apart from traditional credits, to also include for example environmental
securities and real estate instruments.
81 Through the work of a commission which comprised representatives of the Ministries of Environment,
Agriculture, Finance and Planning and representatives from IBAMA, (a policy institute for the environmental
issues: Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovdveis), the Central Bank, and the five
federal banks; BNDES, BB, CEF, BNB and BASA. Its Letter of Principles for Sustainable Development, which is
based on terms recommended by UNEP (United Nations Environmental Program) came to be known as the
"Protocol Verde", and the working group became a standing Commission subordinated to the Natural Resources
Committee of the Casa Civil from the Presidency of the Republic.
Page 59



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
'Environimental Issues and Brazil's Banking Sector
The BNDES bank, Brazil's premier'term lendin'g institution. had incorporated environmental considerations in its
Ioan procedures more than a decade prior to the formal'establishment of the' Commission. The BNDES bank extends
loans specifically for environmental improvement, and estimates that of its total new loans in 2001 of ar6und US$
11 billion, almost US$ I billion were 'for environmental financing. A large proportion of BNDES' loans in practice
are exiended through other banks, through lines 'of credit, as it is a'wholesale financial institution. Its outstanding
environmenial portfoli6 is over,the last 10,years,.including onlending, is estimated at 'around US$ 6 billion. BNDES'
environmenLal norrns 'are.also applicable to'loans made through' other banks on 'the basis,of BNDES lines of credit..
Irspection of direct loan filings reseal that inforrnation on environiiiental considdrations, and operational / technical
provisions for dealing with them,' are usually filed conscienuously, an'digiven as 'much importance in loan approvals
as economic or financial considerations. .  , .    '
Other federal banks too have adopted the principles of the Protocol Verde, and have incorporated envtronmental
procedures into their' lending practices: All have environmental assessment departments and,procedures, and every
effort is made to adhere to sound environmfental practices. Banco:do Brasil for example has systemically adopted
good environmental practices internally,'in addition to the Protocol''Verde. Its several special environmental
programs emphasize energy savings and recycling, and it has established the Bank of Brazil Foundation (Fundacao
Banco do Brasil)..which invests in environmental research and pioneer projects such as the utilization of residues and
' encouragcment of organic cultivation'. It has supported the efforts of the National Prog-am for Rationalization of the
Use of Agro-toxins, and since 1999, has financed around 320.'small contracts supporting rationalization, including.
several cooperatives. and totaling R$ 6 million.  '
'At the Caixa Econ6mica Federal,' where the bulk of lending is for housing and urban sanitation arid'water, the
Protocol Verde motivated significant chariges. CEF has established as a priority the study of environmental norms
and laws related to housing and urban' development. Their studies have led to "several innovations regarding
environmenal 'efficiency, where their norms are.stricter than those of CONAMA '(the National Environment
Council), with regard to some parameters, such as population defisity; In basic sanitation worki,.CEF has adopted
an impact classification ratrix and,a environmental demands matrix, covering diverse parameters, where the size
and technology adopted in the installations are emphasized; CEF is now a' part' of 'the CONAMA committee
concerning civ'il 'construction residues and participates in environmental projects such as increase handicapped
access.
The two, remaining federal banks, Banco do Nordeste do Brasil and Banco da Anazinia'lS.A. - BASA - are also.
promoters of, the Protocol Verde. BNB has been hailed' as unrivalled in terms of providing environmental' support
for micro, ssmall.andd medium comnpanies, despite-difficulties encountered' in the environmental lice'nsing,process in
all the stales where it functioris. BNB has sought 'actively for 'sustainable development' projects, such as organic
production, Like the other public retail banks, BNB promotes several programs such as the FNE-VERDE'program.
With the University of Sao'Paulo, BNB undertook the development of environmental risk indicators for the various'
activities that it finances, and is now undertaking an evaluation of environmental issues in 500 client regional'
companies. BASA it is the financial agent of the Constitutional, Fund for the Financing of the North- FNO. It is a
predominantly rural bank' and cattle raising is an important activity in the region. BASA does:not finance.any project
that involves deforestation; resources for.cattle raising are linked to increases in  to therecuperation
of degraded areas. BASA' is promoting the elaboration of an erivironmental 'impact manual that incorporates, in one
document. all its informal and formal demands regarding the environment.  '
Large private banks are' aware of the importance of'environmental issues. At Bradesco,.'adherence to BNDES'
environmental norms for loans made through BNDES lines' of credit' are routinely tracked. Bradesco has had
operations with IFC since 1998, 'and CFC environmental standards' are applied through a team of tnternationally'
trained staff, 'who serve as a focal.poini for' environrmental issues. Bradesco has an automatic environmental
information system. Demands are more rgorous than those of BNDES. - Itau and Unibanco are now initiating the
insertion of environmental issues in their activities. Unibanco has a respected environmentalist in its staff. Both
bankls follow BNDES guidelines for onlendirig and persons there have recently taken environmental training courses
at the Bank and IFC. It is widely agreed'that private banks.could now increase their environmental involvement,'but
it is also acknowledged that implementation in reality wiUl require-serious training efforts.. ' ''
Page 60



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
164.  The investigation of environmental practices at individual banks had many positive
findings (see Box); notable among these are the high environmental standards of the BNDES
bank, which in turn are upheld by other banks, as recipients of BNDES lines of credit. Such lines
of credit are extended to both other federal banks as well as to private institutions. Additionally,
Banco do Brasil, the largest bank in Latin America, also federally owned, has not only
systemically instituted sound environmental practices, but also, it has various special programs
with an environmental focus, for example on practices such as energy saving, recycling and the
encouragement of organic cultivation. Caixa Economica Federal, the second largest bank, has
adopted environmental norms which are stricter than those of the National Environmental
Council with regard to parameters such as population density. The incorporation of
environmental training for microcredit loan officers in Banco do Nordeste are considered close
to best practice even by international standards. In the private sector, the IFC's influence on
environmental standards is strong, and awareness is increasing. Bradesco, Brazil's largest private
bank, shows that management of environmental variables can also increase business
opportunities.
165.  Regarding the treatment of environmental liabilities in the process of bank restructuring
or privatization, no major issues were revealed regarding the transfers of such liabilities in the
course of privatization. Bank privatizations so far have been preceded by restructuring processes
and asset sales which would have reduced greatly the possibility of such transfers. Although
there have been no clearly identified environmental liabilities in such restructurings, bank claims
on companies which could have had such issues can be reviewed. In such cases, banks which
were privatized, merged or acquired were divided into a 'good' bank to be incorporated and a
'bad' bank to be liquidated. Potential environmental liabilities were left to the part of the
portfolio destined for liquidation or sale. Thus there are no known pending concerns regarding
environmental liabilities of the institutions either acquired or purchased. In the case of the sale of
Banespa, control of the electricity generating company CHESF (electrical sector), was separated
from the rest of assets prior to sale. Similarly in the case of Unibanco's acquisition of National
Bank (Banco Nacional), the latter detached itself from claims on the Serra da Mesa
(hydroelectric plant) prior to the merger. Looking at strictly private acquisitions, Banco
Econ6mico, absorbed by BBV, had a possible environmental liability; the COPENE
petrochemical industry; and in the case of Bamerindus, bought by HSBC, there could have been
potential environmental liabilities emanating from claims on paper and cellulose sectors. In all
these cases, these assets were separated from the 'good bank' prior to sale.
166.   The report concludes, broadly, that Brazilian environmental legislation has
consolidated itself in the last two decades, so that norms, criteria and environmental
standards specified are of high quality. The greatest fragilities of the Brazilian
environmental system are found in the administrative guardianship of the environment.
Inspection agencies, except in some few states, are unprepared to exercise their function. Norms
and processes for licensing and environmental control at state and municipal levels are
frequently inadequate. However the Environment Ministry is well aware of these weaknesses
and the Bank and the IDB are financing programs looking at corrections.
167.  The issue of what can be done to further environmental standards is complex and
deserves debate and study. Imposing additional standards can be costly, especially for small
Page 61



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
enterprises which rarely have sufficient scale to economically support this. Most of the
environmental credits of the federal banks have been under special government programs,
typically highly subsidized. It can be added that while asset quality information on these loans is
not specifically available, some bad assets are likely to have accumulated, as with other special
programs mandated for these banks, which could have contributed to their financial weaknesses.
The adoption of rigorous environmental standards can complicate the access to credit of small
enterprises and their privileged terms. Also the delegation of licensing to municipalities, NGOs
and others government agencies, would untangle processes, but could diminish the efficiency in
the controls
168.  The report concludes thatfirst steps could be increased participatory public debate
in this area, involving banks, insurers, certifiers, business institutions especially those
sponsored by government such as Senai, Senac, Sesc, Sebrae and others, and government
agencies involved in the environment. A second key step could be an increase in the training
and building of human and institutional capacity to deal with these issues.
169.  As follow up to this report, the Bank team forwarded the consultant study to the banking
system through the offices of FEBRABAN, the bankers association, and also to the Central
Bank. Both are prepared to engage in follow up seminars as recommended and dialogue between
them has begun. A joint working commission, which includes a senior Central Bank Director,
ahs just been established. FEBRABAN has already begun to actively engage in initiatives
concerning sustainable banking. Even before this, in March 2002, FEBRABAN had previosly
organized a debate on environmental risks and opportunities for banks (Riscos e oportunidades
ambientais para bancos), which was held in Sao Paulo on March 6. The keynote speaker was
from IFC. Over 70 persons from different banks attended the event. In March, besides this event,
there was another organized by ABN Amro bank and one by the UNEP in Rio de Janeiro, where
attendance from Brazilian banks was high.
170. The debate of environmental issues and the financial sector continues. The Bank is
following discussions between the government and the private sector exploring the extension of
the Protocol Verde to private banks as well as analyzing proposals such as reforms of the
current environmental licensing system, exploration of the regulation of saleable
environmental securities and insurance against environmental risks and programs for
continued training of human resources, within financial institutions as well as in partner
implementing agencies.
BENEsrrs OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
171.  Brazil's financial sector reform program will help to stimulate as well as firmly anchor
sustainable and sound economic growth and poverty reduction through enhanced protection
against economic turbulence and potential crises, and through its direct support of measures to
enhance access of financial services to the poor. Specifically, the multiple benefits of achieving
programmatic actions as indicated in the first adjustment loan as indicated in the first loan,
include (i) broadened access to financial services and enhanced depth of private financial
intermediation; (ii) sounder operations of both public and private banks and more effective
bank failure resolution and exit; (iii) reduced systemic risk and Central Bank exposure to risk of
Page 62



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
loss in the settlement of payments, and (iv) increased minority shareholder demand for
securities and hence enhanced access to capital for enterprise growth.
172. Expected benefits of public bank reform encompass: enhanced financial soundness in
Brazil's largest financial institutions; movement towards the separation of their commercial
operations from public policy mandates; enhanced fiscal transparency; reduction of distortions in
financial markets and the creation of a more level playing field for all financial institutions, thus
helping overall resource allocation. Until recently, Federal banks were effectively not subject to
even basic prudential norms such as capital adequacy or provisioning, and their real financial
condition was masked. Today their losses are transparent and moreover the government as their
owner has transferred new capital to them to cover old losses due to obligatory operations.
173.  Benefits of progress with fundamental financial sector legislation focus importantly on
the overall rationalization of the roles of Brazil's multiple financial system regulatory
institutions, through the Corporate law, the strengthened CVM, rationalized regulations for
mutual funds and pension funds. Legislative changes to the Corporate law significantly improve
the governance framework for corporations, thus strengthening shareholder rights and
encouraging increased participation in Brazil's stock markets; thus enhancing access to capital
and lowered costs of capital for Brazil's enterprise If it occurs, the institutionalization of
monetary policy independence, and the possibility offurtherfinancial sector rationalization after
the 'unblocking' of Article 192 of the Constitution, would be an added bonus. The ongoing
technical assistance loan to the Central Bank (4254-BR), as well as the new companion
technical assistance loan to the Central Bank as well as the Securities Commission, which went
to the Bank's Board in September 2001 (Loan 4637-BR) will help to fortify institutional capacity
to realize the achievement of the goals of programmatic lending.
174.  Objectives, outcome indicators and poverty impact are summarized in Table 2.
Page 63



93
>
Du
>
4)
>  cL                       u  C            j
1:3
0  O   a                                                                    -ul          I     u     . , C         .  U
U  Ca                                                                   p-D., 0      -   .                  v  -., S. -
v  ew 0-1                        -   E -tn -2 :        -:a             _. E   uc
r-                                                                                             o      cn    r.     I       ._; i
1.0  W                       0         EA v.                           C
IA
t3
T 0           >
(A El     0      'A  0.
-.0    M-i                                     La
-2 -0 -0        -  -
C-S   cu)                                               qj
>0 g                                                                         r
78     4.j 4J
u
U4       20                                                                                          0                    rA     -0
.0         2
>
Aa
4)                             At
er                                                                                                                     13
--u
o                            U  LOD
-Z3                                                             C3.
U. 0
A
CZ                                                                                                                            -:3    010
MO                                                       A 1L                                                         >
a M                                                       0        o
n   ,.   - -,              W-                     Z.,                                              Cd
-:
to 'A                                                                                               Co
0
4)                                                                                                                           F-Q
4__
'M ,         E. c
> ..M                 C     to
0  0         Ej               -      co, 93           'A 7
a;. Z            , . C  _. .  .      .9  0                                                                                              A
O,                   Li                                                                    ED -   -        -             -g   a
0                          0.                                                                  C34
4) o. ,                                                                                        9    0                43
I                                                                                           -Cs       -%J
CZ
I 4A                                          0 E=
u-0                                             Ez
O,
60 En           .0                                                                                                                ca
C
1-U.
A                               U                    Z
Ci                                                         .0   0
PZ U                                                                                    O
Lp                       4u  mz
ie
4z
r                                                                                                                                           CA -
IEL        ta-                                          x              mn 000
4z,
co
r
>  r
CJ 'M-0                                     Eii Q                                         to 0         0
fa                                  LO.
In _;N
W                                                                       J.'                                                          -cm          72
LLI_ cq.(=



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION
Political Uncertainty
175.  The comprehensiveness and pace of the reform program so far has been sustained by the
well-coordinated current economic team, working collaboratively across the Central Bank,
Ministry of Finance and regulatory agencies, and the support this team has enjoyed from the
Office of the President of the Republic. The outlook after the elections would depend upon the
vision of the new administration, which may have different priorities. These uncertainties are
exacerbated by the practice of political appointment of key senior financial sector officials
including the head of the Central Bank and federal financial institutions. In view of the
unfinished agenda which lies ahead in terms of financial sector reform, such political uncertainty
could have an impact on the achievement of sustained change, and in the most adverse case,
could allow Brazil to recalibrate Brazil's achievements compared to its vulnerabilities.
176. The drive of the present administration to consolidate and firmly entrench changes prior
to the end of their term, their efforts to build consensus through disclosure and transparency, and
the support and confidence the reform agenda enjoys from the private financial sector
counterbalance these risks. There has been a growing social consensus for the reforms which
are being undertaken, which could help to maintain the present program on course even in
the event of changed political circumstances. For example, the diagnostic undertaken by
independent consultants on the condition of the public banks at the onset of their consolidated
inspection was widely publicized on the Central Bank's website so that the need to address the
issues faced by these institution comes as no surprise to the public. There has also been extensive
public debate on issues such as measures to increase access to financial services, coordinated by
groups such as the Comunidade Soliddria. Payments system reform issues were discussed with
the entire banking system and the present launch date was a consensus decision. Results of the
Central Bank's studies on issues such as interest rate spreads or taxation are all available on its
website. The high degree of transparency of the reform agenda enhances the likelihood of its
sustainability.
Adverse Macroeconomic Circumstances - Domestic and International
177. A deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could complicate economic
management. As in 2001, increased external shocks, including regional contagion due to the
Argentine crisis and weakened investor confidence in the region, could impact adversely on the
exchange rate. Although downward pressure on the exchange rate could help bridge the current
account deficit in the post-1999 floating exchange rate regime, this is less of a concern as foreign
capital inflows continue so far to largely cover the gap. However, FDI flows need to be
sustained. Also, depreciation could tend to fuel inflation thus requiring monetary and/or fiscal
tightening to adhere to inflation targets, as for example, in 2001, through increases in interest
rates or required reserves. The sharp depreciation of the exchange rate and the increase in
inflation above target in 2001 are indicators of remaining vulnerability of the system, as are the
recent revisions upwards (March 2002) of inflation forecasts and targets for 2002 and 2003.
Brazil remains vulnerable to interest-rate and capital-flow shocks due to its debt. Rising spreads
Page 65



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
for emerging market debt and increased external borrowing costs could significantly raise debt
servicing costs.
178.  However, Brazil's foreign currency borrowing spreads opened lower in January 2002
compared to September 2001 (around 820 basis points compared to over 970 in September 2001)
despite a slide from 1500 basis points to over 4000 basis points for Argentina over the same
period. And following the slide of end 2001, end-January 2002 exchange rate also began to edge
higher relative to rates of September 2001. By the beginning of this year, Brazil had restored
some of the ground lost, achieved increased macroeconomic stability and demonstrated its
significant economic robustness against adverse conditions. Two small but significant interest
rate cuts signal the government's confidence, and in the first quarter of 2002, the exchange rate
was steady.
179.  Forecasts in early 2002 are for some strengthening of the real on average against the
dollar in 2002, compared to 2001. Possibilities for further interest rate cuts will depend on price
pressures including the price of oil. It also appears as if the US recession is less significant than
expected in late 2001, and investors appear to have 'decoupled' Brazil from Argentina despite
the deepening Argentine crisis. The government has remained robust against any serious loss of
credibility due to adverse macroeconomic circumstances in 2001. Indeed, the relative strength of
Brazil in the face of the present difficulties faced by Argentina has bolstered confidence in the
policies of the current economic team. So far, if anything crisis conditions have tended to
accelerate the sense of urgency, opening political windows to accelerate reform.
180.  The government has demonstrated its commitment to achieving primary surplus fiscal
targets agreed with the IMF. The primary surplus of R$43.7 billion to end-December 2001
(equivalent to 3.7 percent of GDP), exceeded the target of R$40.2 billion by R$3.5 billion.
Brazil's underlying economic robustness today, compared to the pre-1998 period, may be
attributed to such structural adjustments as the adoption in 1999 of the floating exchange rate
regime, and the Law of Fiscal Responsibility, enacted in mid-2000, which sets tight controls on
expenditure at all levels. In addition to the strong and institutionalized fiscal reforms themselves,
increased credibility has been built with respect to inflation and macroeconomic management,
and improvements have been achieved in the composition of Brazil's public debt through an
active debt management effort.
181. Even in the event of an unforeseen macroeconomic destabilization, the present
operation would continue to have strong justification. The measures supported in the present
operation, which deepen financial markets, rationalize their costs and introduce increased
flexibility and new instruments to enhance the functioning of markets, would serve to aid
stabilization in the face of market turbulence, add to investor confidence, and enhance prospects
for a smooth recovery.
Difficulties in Sustaining Future Stages of Federal Bank Reform
182.  While the first stages of federal bank reform undertaken so far are highly significant, and
there are comprehensive plans for future stages of reform, with improvements in governance,
MIS systems and internal controls, audit, operational efficiency and enhanced profitability, as
well as increased transparency in operations with the government, it may be difficult to
Page 66



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
implement all these stages of reform, which will depend on the adoption of a shared vision by the
banks themselves, the government and the Central Bank. Difficult decisions will arise regarding
business choices, and senior managers both at the federal banks and the Central Bank may
change in the upcoming elections. However, the institutionalization of the principle of enhanced
supervision of these banks, based upon and backed by appropriate prudential regulations, and the
enforcement of these regulations will help protect their future solvency.
183.  The adoption of clear strategic plans by the institutions themselves will also help to
maintain the momentum of reform. The federal banks are already reported to be immersed in
their strategic planning process for the 2002-04 triennial. Internal changes, envisaged to include
improved accountability with decentralized reporting, providing for more objective and
commercial decision making; adoption of a new commercial strategy and new products and
diversification away from traditional targeted sectors and Government-oriented programs; clear
separation of government-related activities; together with improved management information,
internal controls and internal governance, if implemented satisfactorily under the surveillance of
the Central Bank, will clearly reduce risks of backsliding. The clear commitment of the
government, as part of a longer term strategy of diversification away from the federal banking
system as a primary vehicle for the implementation of its social policies, will be key to this
process.
Risk of Institutional Weakness
184.  As noted in the first adjustment loan, some institutional risks remain as several
institutions would be required to contribute to achieve envisaged future reform, both
within and beyond the financial system. Achievement of reforms in some areas such as the
judiciary remains difficult to predict. However, within the financial system, the Central Bank,
principal architect and implementer of the reform program, remains strong and capable.
Moreover, the central regulatory institution in capital markets, Brazil's Securities Commission,
has been given considerably enhanced powers and autonomy with the recent passage of revisions
to the CVM law, and is also now being supported by the Bank's new technical assistance loan
which provides support to mitigate its technical and human resource constraints. In sum, this risk
is perceived to be diminished, and it is not considered likely that this risk will significantly
undermine program implementation.
. .  . .  .
Page 67



ANNEX 1: BRAZIL: SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN - OBJECTIVES, ACTIONS AND INDICATORS
f                                                       c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u~~TpqL  mw I pnn --T0  Fdutur Herelopvnent Arrass
t.l ci auksq'aiAios ",r                          ;ctareng A&Ld              FroInhle Actium; PnzmVbah
f  .rex,Q 6vruth icdr'wn ofEgFsv.rd P,7grLuaraAcfi0oPL                                                                   r- 
1.1          -       Centol Bank                   R-iskm Cene I   ic    RiskkCenter nowproducicn_g_   - AuditcofRtk  0-,,     Risk Cenree;lo -Increase
Efficiency and        C-La    akattsi               syitem icadi ness  p Informun)n Lin Snaller   .1   functioning aind action  iresie -0      -effici-ency and
Access laFinanciln  - tesoli' sirunral causes of  j to- pro% ide        dornination Icurrs{RSS.0OtV    p - -pn to rented) any                  - - -depth of finlancia-d
i - ii,nu-~ tr(xirtJ high  J enhanced sct of - below pnsvious levei of       sbouicorrung                              ntnteiito
0   reiaefediadon Ssreadi       detriar3ii            S0.       n  cdo    op         Policy review      a     td  rtpo           edboh
-  Pnncipal actions          -~~~~~~t~~ inluon    R52(J.OdOo).tx" Inditiatediongcccending 1             cvjit             pnvjte s-ector
Rist Center strengthened                  C1                                  botutssgt-  nA-l  lni on informationi  inlormaitionl  C  Povterty
*   fIciency In       arid Debtar information                       adace    o Risk Ctmier    I    sisng.erwiot rights                      reduction through,
- iilt'ifldi.tiOL  unrvdI                      -positive inbunanon and ac.ess                                                           glowThi
stecognictred  -  it  ~ ~ ~~~~o      Risk CeriterwrbIIpi~o   i
-            i- ~~~~~Contract nftnrmernet  t.  Publjcarionnlt of 1lB3kw :i . 
F                        -                    CredimoBancano  K iencPro isistonal Larvon C,Sda dr ,                         .- 
CrddtigoBtuiwuidudeerned to-                                       J
--     1-                   ii   ti~~~~~~~~~~~a%efuillik  altius-
5  -                        -       jo    ~~~~~~~~~~~Competition Iconsumer
-  -                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pmicction and disclosure -1 
(h uih3nced uniterr rate
- -  - Ii -                     Coinphdonnf     110 ~~~~~~~~~attOwnt and ovL-idraft disclosure-
- V  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Cmitino-                     T'ao u.rkrng paperso tm he                                   -
21                       ~~~~~~~~~stirdy offitnanciaft   CPIF Lax imssed  i 
--            -           -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~sector taxation  SubmiTssion to Ccongrcss of  .  -   - 
-  proptted elimination of C-'NW                      -dpinnn
-           o~~~~~(n stock frnarl.tulrnsarjonrs                 Aonk fn
IPrfl'ramnnn of nrndq?co nn njl. Il'obty tetisendatIctrIs  and nmmv rational 1 
issued on new financ ial
La%s 4591 ori dh.ir irenro                        --financial cetar
-. .-        -    -                    -    -     I;  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Flnrudoern deflubunrufi  -  ector Lisation frarritwork  tansuon POlCicir I
-            -                 ~~~~~~~~        ~    ~~~~iN  apcntud neonas joer a                             - aei'ed la
Banknotes Lwnrupcyreor bbg            ih                   ii                 rights
Bankruptcy refrm being  the ~saru1 fnan/  icreased. fIUsble solutionsi for I  amended %aZkrpity I efcr 
considered by Congreis  I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ bnikruio. nimLs to labor and 11  L- by Congress  J.
-Annex I page 1 of 7



ANNEX 1: BRAZIL: SECOND PROGRAMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN-OBJECTIVES ACTIONS A.ND INDICATORS
.f6-                         a            I   A__ ->~va0 ,,               i   $    -   t          If    u.eii7!jr,&2- '-      -- Z.2L----
..._  _ ._ .. _ ___  .... .. .. ......:__  J  :  7r ,>te -                            _L.
-   Broedenineofe no b lovaiestepstakento  -  o  Compledionof            Cumpeuo(reposbyfour           o  Adoptioofmeas          0   Additional        o   a B denaccess
-       jocess  reach under-servedpopulatiQo  strategy to furhler  invmfligadlt commiftes an Acr.  J . funhcr delop      Imeasur              to financi:I emices
PNncipal actions are:          develop avaitabiltyof  to micofinan.e bl the Coaunidade  avuiiabiliy of financial  annowcedmad       for under-scrved
financial services to   SWdria and fornuladon of         senices to under-served   issued             popuNtio
> Accessibility of financal  under-served sectors    sEa egy to epdnd firLinc,aIl     sctorS including        Io -Pover eduction
sfr-icLs widened                                serices toutuderserved.          expansion of anic of                                increased
> Cooperativeservices                                   Launcitngof new initiatves    mirofnwtc  and                              a
deepened                                        for maIc  iit by SBIRAE          ratonalization of role of
.  Passage.of resoution          govermncnt and fedeaOW
.ibradening access to financing by  b
.   |-         J           : ' i7--                     } ~~~~~~~~~~~~microciedit soa3e[tia (SCMs) 
}  - ~~~~ -.   ||                       | o ~~~~ Aucduningofposlrranachise.                                              .-.-          .-
for ~eju-icasof ncrw  L. o-f
'rOvision of filanal strviceS-
o  Introduction otremail sales of
-Teasury bonds
o  Measues to expand housing
t t t i l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~finsance;                                                       I ,-*11-;1t-^--- 
>    Extension of C& -ula
insnmuneut to housing sect--
(C06da&dCo   di w Itnobildria)
t -- 1t i1 - 5155 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>                              Separastion of canstrul-ion151; 
campany and projec asscts.                  -
0   t                           8 l                    1 t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(parritimal de %efe-afeo) and | -,         -.              .-.7        '
creauon of speC.ial Purpose
mutual fuinds for housing boan i
CM                        cut-lof  zeation (FDlC) .
sta %gyoidea the  ~ >   l1ased u54 of ahtn2f4do
use of mmabIt             fidwidria forho*-1sing
collateral to mobib2h
l__._____         _         tredil[t  _ _ __L _  -       ..                               __nIpg2_of
Ann-tex I page 2 of 7



ANNEX 1: BRAZIL: SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN - OBJECTIVES. ACTIONS AND INDICATORS
Prop)wd Smind Lum - VW                  FbMimc flevdopment Areas
ActfrnsCwnpMed -  [j Eip   __                                          Probablied  A                             Pobicusbs
mit.                                                                                                                              ii IF;; _~
Bankn Sy11           Qwunrfom        cisd           Ni oSyie      -tem completed end.200!1               *   Effective ocrat.ion of *Generaton of     a   EFnsure soundness
Sounidness and    -in moderniwig and         --     sdiveillance systm     ricpresenung huge advance in      new ofissue wurvetillance  sin3ulatiOth / stmres  -in Use opkrnnn of 
Sa fety Net.         stitngibectitngaupesvlsfry    (voperatonal             otTfsi surweillance caipacity. -  sy-stem                tiestsbytnew        1bolthpub!czinnd
-                                           I * ~~~eio.caialaeqayEnhancedl RiLsk  SRisk Center extnsion  § aEffeeb%seiton  ad tvtm-                 pnr    ak
-Bank regul!tii,Ln  smardsnt  as lsiiaio.      IC..j. sie                                                           nnmn,.n.,I aPbn.1
and SLLDCriiiOtl manannunads, bank     I!.Itoucino                   Mnua Project near           IWhancetd RLctCcntcr tee   inilonAunon and
-  - -  f~~~sigcmiit Risk  enter and  Exnunation Manals  complr1rm fAug 2002)        *1also HI i)                 eased accs o       a   Prryipc
streamtliniog of on and off site  fnrdiro     fhn          aigdsinsse        &k         *Apiaino                  information at    t hrough crnsis
PnnnpaL at-Itrdutintoihnkonatig esgnpr.                    -                                                          ventioneho o
-  -  r supervsslun..  -  -       ~~~~rating system     4; advanced luWy 20021              EISUInDauOn Mianuab,      Risk Cenltel  -     r:enO
-  It  ..~~~~~~~     II              -   -     a  A'~~~~~~~ot usbiuuvedduiewmpeifuicLal -  ApplicaLimor obanL  ik USEof
-       r~~~~Consouuared spe iistf n lSOSiOtln(iv-r eniLarwi'd                               raiesystesn               mnuauls in
uitrodiited         .1          sWhubmte'd to-  ppo       knveur,-.              rtin
> CapjtaJ a1                                 praerio'ifoesensr sprrrsar
-           - Capi~~~stentalnadeucstnad  Conigres to bcJlLr     trbde in proposeda Cenrad       {     Formial proposals        Unerrkn
I  ~~tren gihened ~~proect supe-rvisors                           -          . 
pSoijnc asset e-uisifiration                                                        exDOAttm- e renid protecion drafted *tfWns-
If  introduced   I                      I * ~~~~~~~~~~~Additcional rgulatoryreforms -  by Central Band--Drf   e
- -  -. -      r ~~~1M josupev  i                   -  --          in areas of aceoubntg ml h                                 s - -  tndartit pr`parcd
I  organizatioo-~~~~~~~~~~  -             l-~    Markirtgto-markro    -     a    Advanced projwforp
I - .-  -       ~~I      ompleied                                         sec- -  vuritiesZ1and separnitni orf  hsanotization oftfinanetial -
Ad,6 ancrd can irac t                 ~~~~~booking if se-CUridies for trading  inkstitution accounting
*  ~ ~  ~   ~     Ad~~~ianced                  §    -a-. Lclholding, and available for trnlde       standards witih LAS
-               ~~~~~~~develop examlnatino                    1      Marm-to mtarket and nertink of1                                        p
manuals                                           deiLte,lffctrgt
-  - -       7. ~Advanced contractringto                       I    acLosntng. cr-edit den vates and 
*                  - ~~~~~~developbankratang           ---              swap' operatit-nS --
symem ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~         Srtrenthedieddssdosst rand  I
- -  _____ t z                       -  -. -    -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ internal,controls   - 
Bank resoluriorn and]a  Com~plex anid far reaclitny  I  -Preparartin of  a    Draft !esslationcon ban          Drf lematiaon        *                       Esr suixft
drooit iTnsurance  relitw program of bank ext   daf eiLio      n           failure resoution under        sumtesoCnresia rjc                or d-lt    an re'o)ltuuoo of
framsework andarokof depovr    new draft riawles forr    preparanonby Ceqt)bank         a-Draft resolution ft#    eiswo               faded banks to
Iiinsurance aarmed and initit1dthe depoit miasre, and      consultant                      hne    oFCsaue                               rvn    se
-            t~~~~~hcat submission for    F RC proitosals los ch'anges to  approved by Monetr     M   rslto         dr.nrarn     n
-  -  'I  ~~~~~~Žjiz~~~z'~~                                  Irapprvalits  tcsQpirpinuiand  jiCactini     -U antA'sratues                lair di.,trtbutron of
I                    --      - -- ~~~~~~~~mVeicn fBluepnint developed.                                          - -naumorh   Strengthen capacity
Central Bankh decision   ,     Copeonl            a         -     'c                   ---~
planning  adap~~~~ ~,  ~~  -~    blueprint and          su6iae     di te Cenole Bank  jifo mnpfrnenro                 -.jtofrrevent acia-is iarid
platwng nd iimsic wo Ij   pjitdvl by        I   and oppioived by dibe Ceritra  COrrtingeAQC Plun w'floreloa popl
p g                     -~~~~~~~~~~avihonties    B tank Directot on May 200!  1&penid ontIheGppravlflSI           -       4and eifecuiveiy if it -
U;.   progmm agree and initiated  j-)the re                                                           etalGB   n   . j1 I -
Annex I page 3 of 7



ANNEX 1: BRAZIL: SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN - OBJECTIVES, ACTIONS AND INDICATORS
Svsiemand - ~0   Ud,art reform launched I  e amnsRdc
Sugem and  eandPdemendSyngemmplemen                                       ,arotemiue nba
Securities Cleaclnmadineeple.et3lioo  Ssern. pmnmcuLuly  expecred to be baunched an Apnl  .'j functioning oif nr  system reports  Neirkan
d  ~~~~   ti: metable maintained Eaabhng  RM ,fully oper%uionl  2. 1OUL  Reviced date supported  II raymnins SIEMCn-lBn
and Sdtlement  i,      I                                                        LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~spsre. increase
uUOiire                             o    bPYk2   ¶sinlt0          fncnainfn                .  oterall efficiency 
-  7>     pi~~~~~~Giduepavnrn'aol                          andlnsIsetehd~~~    in c5leanagi and
priat-          and ad  GutidrLento Isesurtes on  Revewogwdlins ad  4       and -
___nje  claac  c___o mntng  frw% system  areas____                  ___
Additional  lie  CVM Instruction~~~~~~~~~~~~~r sue ruen
'exchange and BNDESpar a rdand c c an s sudae  teuae  n  tieghn  isclraose and s.  1 ednuteig
4                                                                                  Iii ~~~~~~~~~~~d' d acons.stesoacernghLte ars-mn ofr
I~.tlflAa I  rineilesinccporrei n  nuontssharholdr andisculosure   of secunue s r oaen   rnprec.ituig-  semaunug nssue
noea c peson funoivestminen  prodetion -  mtral '  VI nsfm ueno No35  reuAtdion arpuli  o     Illsunrisf
marLa    IIi.4                                     -                                            I
H excangeand  NDESar ad  aadconslidae  leutatsC andeszurthens ft isu d islsuead-n,ie
C=2,'  pwrpk   mcuorte i  mtoit, habod V Odisclure f ccrs0titsrofelate   L a. w.nyI ncChdigrpnvesir  o
;joSubm,~~tontnCon  -  C Prublicato i  R-publoiVcawp~,d   etw f     -a    ee f         e~lpa
rnve-wrna pc sc  fiade investomenhac  CY s-.         -  -- n- -i  offnuin ebuatuan fuan d  lmdlctos  srcunure.  istue
eoforc6ienr  gU1e3orce1en caait  n                              ffenng fr I. i~   m~l ud ~ t T  anindl regulrory  ¶ r o se  any> Biraziin ant ires
establishindependece of  conolidationof nmuial responsiblstiesundior Co 361.  repniiiyaddatdb  K I  icouei
g standards setting  fund  and  achiesued  thMrough 5id. caos 2R;sitn .W2dw Qj Mntr  Conclm  taIiesprl;  f org
cued to                              further consbligadryitsndur offersnw aitet.L
Cl/NIregultionsis.  fpensin fun  reguation rehoMlaer.  -  llupntr  rat arsIfar. 
I enhance utfonmarion disclcisuru  I  ~oni scour-  Hief                          a rpie
an  in bmesto n prtcin  ogvsPbiio   a c  Rlgulations issued1 la requiig rgltin  rprd  asRvewo   RciK-o  I o  - eo
F teulat  and. p3m- 31 sanctio   of l[gans renifundsVfI Lawrk to41 marnet aj hineed nd toachieve a   1 as-- -it4  erc(% -cuag
fr:ime,~~~~k in ~                    -  lsiyseuiis  hof re    utred  consoliatind- ..
V            a  Submijsjcrn to  0~~~~~~~-i  -n  PW'xoied iege La puon-*
pn -31 1amark -'etsmmlfud-alfndpno
esiiLhlkh ineenec .of  pG  .cno -Tta mdpoasobdatostid)ro beI ae es¶d        .L dr'y icosr n
auoncig sxndrd seingtusssmntc-fiieAnnex 1 page                          Cuncl  ra4paofcy 7



ANNEX 1: BRAZIL: SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN - OBJECTIVES, ACTIONS AND INDICATORS
N   UbliAreRas) Reform. 
IK I                           (No indictviect;eiorns      LaLwchine ofrtphake. at   I    Adoption Sftrategic    a   RepaDt by     c    Separate
Reform thrug        !PSECALI prograin)             def~ine fat second loan)  iesartucrrng ofdeposit taking  Plans for Federal Banks  Central Bank o3n  commlercial banking
recapitaliaztion,                                                       ',federal bankLs. annotnmced by    >    including goals and  prog;s   ilh  i   opesraionts from the
rZesnructrirt or           l(Hraor criagtsis                             * i.Munce of tlaw in June 20t1,  Ii bw bound actions plan'  ado1ptjon Of     achicoemear of
operational  internauonal finn and ~~~~~~ 1w  ~ ~ .     reqwfnrg the State as uwner to  for raising elTicicaL) an  taeicpasad        oovricmmn Policy
opeatonl                                       nsNiie uI  I               reore their financial       solvenic)                 actions requiired  goals
efficiency and      IdiS.SeMiRaad to the public    unpcle     ne~concdlan recognizing'                                            Iid Areet  uasto  fix  anlw up] Rsounde ts
dives'JtuLre             Capldonfgincludedesbndassu-
IllI Federml Bank  pecans o y CentomplBarnk. w ib mediuni anid long terr  public policy progidms tirC V  selected to measure                        federalbni saL
R<ecaniralir'nnon an  reuaory sLandaids ascermamed,  strategies it. reassesi  .agi                          >  efiinyjenable a sustained                                -
Ranvalig6aiuad enfrwayO                   nu_jO  mndaies. develoip plans i~ . net oAw accounts a. the Fedemal  praductimty. pra-'*ab-'*"x*  iOireone3lwoufltheir
V~~~~~~~~udral                               I to impro%c efficiency  Vbanks with the Fedration.     jmeasuremenitof -intcral
i andefficaeyofthbt        -  establish s-pecial debt for  - -  tritaibtian by business               arganization end
-~~~~  I                    '; ~~~~~~~~public policies  - Ibdswaprogram for each or.f  lines and adequacy of net                   efficiency, to ensure
I buprdenLe    yt m        tefu        thdroughai          ltmn   usi    h          mor-ptorint     1 the roleanu hepivt
I                      ~~~~~~~~~    ~~h-ere fsca  fests.al  leeaigmngmn          sesetofprorxne           idctr    n         e t Incfinancia
reduce [MI fiSC21                                                  Ccalial Bindividua busnes  feuduralv bankstoeadite 
.jwsthtentnalflank  fIT s ndiPhasi fyingbu tncsusainy lsgnenianied MSpatin  J
I enforcemen actions J  rom targete sectors:  ,of activitis undertake on icai -  an   setori ruralandil
withCbus Bn                  inerssfling. buinsctaythse a -  strengteaned smintra                    federl-b-  Iop=rie
Lmfrccnen ac -w     fro unprvngmanageiaent         Io activitihesu'd rike nn                    Le:0_.rUsalng...
separaugar"%ties  major  behaAf'faeneL                           I hotisinrgfinaate)
-~~~                 .                                  mnmnternal  fl riske toGovmme  and lextral ruisk.
i,adjusretd basis and            openrilorral risk, fares 
-          .                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~systems. as pt" weed plans5 and', Gvrac  drn
'inLcluding
P strengtlreond     '
It             4                    -    a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Launching of follow up  racutblt  tI
iointrcdons of specifriclfederal  I anagtmeai team and
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~'             AJnnunced1 incrased          including oltax and  .H.
[]Paenthsesreprsen actonsdescibe in  ysmLgoymmcLr&rPraM tAnex3) of PFSECAL -I which were outside the scope- of the Bank's progmmmuahac loai-
Italics reprsent actions under PPSECAL - 2 and the longer term program which are pending I under discussion.
Anntex I page 5 of 7



ANNEX I: BRAZIL: SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN - OBJECTIVES. ACTIONS AND) INDICATORS
It $Ltat Han:J:: (Outsidie the scop:-of                                                    f dito.  a  Compierion of  0 asf4Rs
_c~itl~tio  PSECALI)       ~         had brdfnd(r           trestt ak;pRIAema-Miing privatizatio               remiaining state B deposWt4aking
Rcstmuc urnnandFl                        .sonmd loan)       .  -RM                              ofsatnebankts         sanateIbanks]---
Pflvatizationt! fMuliidmensioiaalrestntcwringB iuo do mr8adoI daPEGbnk
program already 3phe to -L4  r~dy xec             (Banco do Estado die Goi4s) on                                   j
Istae banks (ouxtof atal of 47)  actions widtunan   December4,2WltJI3ndBE.A
intels oryears, incdudint.  uns.p~crix1 um  rm (Banco-do Estado do
11  r- Prvtztou6     ak     included:               Amnawna4)on January 24,1
Inc~~guanrspa)        a! pending   '002W2 One aIdditional ltatr ban!.
"Compkltion o cdn
Li- -quidation pflvaizaon fs at
a Resructuritg ofS banksztio of state                  zeI
p  Conversion into aksj-
banh~~~~~bak"
p preparred for pn%abzatzntim
Il   Fuindainenrai iFinancial Svn:emrl.egiLtena,on       ___           ___-
tLandmark Protgress!'.  Submi~sson a0 congrCSNS  It PhliC 3in of       Passage of CvWprate law  [a  R    wof         1 o    ulicy      F     uua    Ae
~~~~~~~~adprilsn'i              of.       rcVE'ed Corporair1t  though Coingrs an  inrr       :ci'r.    rnaggenda on                 owmind bN s~
cegislation             -00.mingignificani                                                 idcniricilauioi uf    issues draA up    insesrors (r  -
en~.~~nno i enIe~n~e  ~- .dditionl irncuures for  _b) C VA   sciunitieS *Ssue
[ifl I fPa~sape OU I';Tghci                                                 nertpis           strengtheunin1                     4    by Brazilian firmrsi
bnral r'pisbtadn                                                 governannc frinanre, 
qRm2w-or-ite                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~access to lung
I              ~~~~~~eaeirprites -
Axnex 1 page 6 of 7



ANNEX 1: BRAZIL: SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN - OBJECTIVES, ACTIONS AND INDICATORS
jL2_qsq       No niuedi po                                                                                Recpipbv  'so   lEjiabic
(knur,nruuoh actiouns of PSECALlj  -; 'acu1uns had not k'en  Courgressafpr.iposedAmentdnrnzeiT          - ungyrss of  adprmn of 
gjnendnwnz ~' -  I defincd for second loan)to the Consnnnio'i ii' 53/199910  j Submubmision inSuchsuc opproposaFs. aFinancialtorc -
unblr&A obstacle n'i I Significant lnrzges inen                   h antdnofCoges0 e                   a
&&Lgft7vCms3  COiIgneSSioMLdiMu%osrlUr  lB3' exece      le jLiaon Jor thfmra Nrcum  i - eAacp   im .- sa. Ia tonchanpg ngrkwet
fiaciai sector artinrdaine to Consftubirutn J   siifan -Firgln     ,nilTSi
_LEnUtUIO  Am..rleig.2counbloclc  unswiiFd nte frame. 4ms     -                   regmlabion
-        de~~~fnant  SITo uleitLllffDim] icldd-      SojIa,. cleared by Scnlaai d"-f1Jcodfos
I'            j Appraiolof ~~~~~ - - ~~ asiby SpeciaoJConruiis5 noiif11iximeF
L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.amocudmeni.to                  jafDepuires     -                               I
-                - - -            JijCoutitnon Amcle  II
_________WT_ mial  f7iolFicae n--cid-i                       It h-as iie%.I'endictdedghUdIe.IF- 
Congee-rolCenrarl actions of PSECALI; ` 'actons, v.idhnaj   sujbmnAsion of die Cenerol Bank lfav j        ji L 
~~9flLkDL           -   H~~~~~~~ unspccifilad anwfrmue. F o
I Areemienlon ovemipnnciptes -1 Iincludalsbiso frglik-rfrie                A       l,P.         [mluwton-  e   I26ai
-  of draft rw ready for  ii                  n'anuzi syiiem.              to Uw _4595 Io perrr  almmntion of  i nstitunonmal
submisqion to *Conugresisn to       F    A drafi et Ia'.'t has been  nest Central Bank  Insonetary polic-y  respoinsibilities (or
Strengthen Cental Bank  p  of Cetuirj  preparn4 which amends Law  1 Statutesidpnene           fnnia etr      -
suregthc Cenral aa  BanJ'JuLunal        'n                  I*    Merger in pr-actice of-         rguain
jiindependence and              l             a/ ear o h'CesalBn         mutual fund regulinon 1!-             lautifluuon-hze
4             ~~~~~~~accoLuniablilny: and      -             Raniorsnaizron of rest of  drCMIndpnncohe-
RLrgnie an                      -           Poalm  insnrial q'nh'4 egiiutuailpunds  -.                    Central Bank-   J
rensibilines for uinancul                  antdpenslolifiUld¶ is nor. br/stg  * cons%obdafon of.         manalU3ef]iL frGIi
seCtor Fegulsuon. allocating               ltaded separately (s,c I ,  rcinsed and OPEnOpltca rLe
S)iinCtuerto rCnIa bareV)                                          -pensicon fuLnd regulatoryI
Bank and nmeging odin         -ictpinsiiiahnes underreuaoyfinua-,drI   igi gn~)PhUaiTCse
I oneumbreLlnj-I
Annex 1 page 7 of 7



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reforms
ANNEx 2: BRAzIL's PUBLIC BANK REFORMS
1.    The recent acceleration of Brazil's program of public bank reform may be viewed as a new
and major step forward in a process which had its genesis in a program of bank strengthening
which began in 1995, shortly after the launching of the Real plan, with the PROER and PROES
programs for the restructuring of private and state government owned financial institutions,
aimed at preventing financial crises, enhancing financial system soundness and integrity as well
as protecting against fiscal indiscipline at the state level.' The new step forwards in reform,
launched in June 2001, for the first time address problems at the country's largest, federally-
owned financial institutions. These initiatives are backed by new prudential regulations and
greatly strengthened banking supervision which requires compliance with regulatory norms at
the federal banks, and also requires the government as owner to take cognizance and action to
ensure the solvency of federal financial institutions. Recent actions however may be viewed as
the first phase of a further series of measures to ensure sustainability of the reforms. The present
note first discusses the principles and challenges of the recent federal bank reforms, then details
specific steps taken at individual federal financial institutions for their financial restructuring,
and in the final section, provides an overview of progress with the rationalization and
privatization of state-owned financial institutions.
I. STRENGTHENING FEDERAL BANKS - OVERVIEW OF RECENT ACTIONS
2.    Brazil has four deposit taking federally owned financial institutions; Banco do Brasil
(BdB) and the Caixa Econ6mica Federal (CEF), which are the two largest deposit banks in the
country, and two smaller regional federal banks, the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), and
Banco da Amaz6nia - BASA. Over the years, these banks, which have been used to implement
specially designed and targeted programs for lending to specific sections of the economy
(notably rural and housing finance programs and regional development programs), have suffered
continued deterioration of their loan portfolio, as a result of a combination of factors; their
IThe Program of Incentives for the Restructuring and Strengthening of the National Financial System (PROER),
which mandated and laid down rules for bank mergers and incorporations, was launched by the issue of Medida
Provisoria No. 1179 and Resolution No. 2208, both issued on March 11, 1995. Following closely upon the crisis
involving Banco Economico (the 22nd bank subjected to intervention/liquidation since implementation of the Real
Plan on July 1, 1994) it was viewed by the government as a means of early intervention and crisis prevention,
facilitating the process of financial system adjustment. Virtually simultaneous were the adoption of the principle of
depositor protection, (National Monetary Council Resolutions no. 2197, dated August 31, 1995, and 2211, dated
November 16, 1995), and the issue of Provisional Measure No. 1182, on November 17, 1995, which gave the
Central Bank the legal instruments that it needed for intervention. A year later, the PROES program, for
restructuring state banks, was launched by the issue of Medida Provisoria No 1514, on August 7, 1996, which
established mechanisms designed to promote reduction of the involvement of the state public sector in financial and
banking activities, providing for the privatization of financial institutions, and greatly expanding the preventive
powers of the Central Bank.
Annex 2 Page 1 of 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
special mandates and programs, limited supervision and inspection, differential norms for the
roles of managers and keeping of accounts for federal banks relative to private banks, and also,
the problems of internal efficiency and unclear accountability.
3.   Following the issue of a series of new prudential regulations for the banking system from
1999, and the major improvements introduced in its systems of on-site bank examination and
supervision, the Central Bank of Brazil launched a comprehensive program of on-site
examinations ("Global Consolidated Inspections", or GCI) in the first half of the year 2000, for
the federal banks. Through this massive and unprecedented effort, the Central Bank intended to
identify all the required adjustments to the balance sheets of the four federal banks in order to
require them to comply with key prudential regulations issued during the last few years,
including Resolution 2099/94 on capital adeqacy and recent modifications to this Resolution
which significantly increase the risk weight applied to tax credits;2 Resolutions 2682/99, that
establishes new rules to classify and provision problem loans; Resolution 2692/00, that includes
market risk as part of the capital requirements; and Resolution 2827/01, that extends and imposes
new maximum lending limits for credits granted to the public sector. The inspections explicitly
revealed problems that have existed in the four banks for years; a significant proportion of which
were due to credit operations that the federal banks make on behalf of the federal government.
4. Negotiations between the government, as owner of the Federal Banks, and the Central
Bank, as regulator and supervisor, resulted in a series of decisions to restructure and recapitalize
the federal banks, and going forward, to introduce transparency in their operations with the
government. The outcome of decisions made, and the program launched for the strengthening of
these federal banks was reflected in a Decree Law, ("Medida Provis6ria ") No. 2196-1, issued on
June 22, 2001. The main objectives spelled out in this law were to require the owner (the Federal
Government) to restore the financial condition of these banks, recognizing and absorbing past
losses. Going forward the Federal Government undertakes to assume the risks and costs of the
various federal credit programs managed by these institutions, reflecting transparently in its
budget any subsidies provided through these banks, which henceforth must be approved by the
National Congress. The Decree Law of June 2001 provides specifically for:
*  Removing the credit risk from the operations funded by the so called "Constitutional
Funds" managed by these banks prior to November 30, 1998;3
*  Allowing these banks to manage new "Constitutional Funds" at their own risk. The banks
can decide whether or not they wish to share the credit risk of such loans, receiving
higher returns if they agree to bear such risks;4
2 To 300 percent.
3There are three regional Constitutional funds, managed by three of the four FFI; the North-East fund , (managed
by BNB), the Northern fund (managed by BASA), and the Center-East fund (managed by BdB). These funds have
been used as vehicles for the implementation of social policy objectives through credit allocation, channeling funds
to certain activities designated by the government.
Annex 2 Page 2 of 17



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reforms
*  Authorizing the Government to void guarantees given by the federal banks for rural
credits sold to the Federal Government at book value. Thus these banks would not bear
any further responsibility for credit risk on the rural and real estate loans swapped with
the Federation for new, negotiable, debt;5
*  Authorizing the Federation to net out the debit and credit accounts of the federal banks
with the Federation;
*  Establishing special debt-for-bond swap programs for various programs/debts held by
each of the four federal banks.
5.   The recapitalization actions undertaken to execute the "Medida Provis6ria" are intended to
constitute the first stage of a transformation process which aims to have the federal banks
governed more independently, with their senior managers accountable to commercially oriented
performance targets, which are better specified and communicated internally, and determined in
advance within the framework of each institutions' strategic plan. The overall transformation
process therefore also envisages internal changes which will constitute a second phase of
reorganization, intended to improve corporate govemance, diversify business activities away
from government programs in order to strengthen profitability and improve transparency and
accountability, and strengthen and render transparent internal information and controls, and in
order to continue and sustain the recapitalization measures executed last June. The federal banks
are already reported to be immersed in their strategic planning process for the 2002-04 triennial.
Specifically, the internal changes, actively supported and closely monitored by the Central Bank,
are envisaged to include:
*  Leveraging   management layers by     creating  a structure  of accountability  with
decentralized reporting, providing for more objective and commercial decision making;
*  Developing a new commercial strategy and new products to diversify away from their
traditional targeted sectors and Government-oriented programs;
*  Organizing activities by major business lines and separating out Government-related
activities;
*  Improving management information systems to support the monitoring of the above
actions and to view the performance of each major business line, especially for
Govemment programs, hence enabling performance monitoring on a risk adjusted basis;
*  Improving controls according to plans, and within a timetable required by the Central
Bank.
6.    The overall fiscal cost of the program in stock terms of new debt issues, as estimated by
the government, is described in the following table. Of the gross securities on issue for each
4Under option (i) the bank would assume a hundred percent of the credit risk and receive a six percent return from
the Constitutional Fund. It would also be permitted to consider funds received as part of its Tier 2 capital
(subordinated debt) subject to the overall limit that Tier 2 capital cannot exceed fifty percent of the banks' Tier 1
capital. Under option (ii) the bank only assumes fifty percent of the credit risk, receives a lower return (three
percent), and cannot deem funds received to be part of its Tier 2 capital.
5Includes transactions related to FUNCAFt, PRODECER II and other credits.
Annex 2 Page 3 of 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustmnent Loan
institution, a part of the securities are being transferred for future recovery, and these will have
no immediate impact on the public sector net debt. However, new bond issues for each
institution, as described in the last column, will increase net public sector debt by R$12.5 billion
or around one percent of GDP. The restructuring will have no impact on the central government
primary surplus, but the increase in public debt will increase public interest expenditures. If
assets transferred from the banks (R$29.5 billion or around 2.5 percent of GDP) are not fully
recovered, there could also be future fiscal costs to the extent of non-recovery.
Table A2.1 Fiscal Effect of Federal Bank Restructuring Measures (R$ billion)
M rAii --- --A '4                            I .  .         A, 1
'40                        .        1:, -.7Q231 2C. 5
ACHEVEMENTS AND CHALLENGES OF THE FEDERAL BANK REFORM PROGRAM
7.   Clearly, these actions may be viewed as significant and major first steps towards the
reform of the largest financial institutions in Brazil. Based on the underlying new prudential
requirements, continued enforcement of compliance of these regulations will help to ensure that
financial soundness is sustained. The decision to inject new government securities in the
institutions which are liquid and remunerated at market rates is also a significant advance over
early attempts at financial bailouts over a decade ago, provided the banks are indeed permitted
free use of these resources. Decisions to increase the transparency of government mandates are
laudable. The adoption of a two-phase program (and potentially a multi-pase program) to
simultaneously reform internal controls, audit, management information and governance systems
will be the key to reform sustainability.
8.   Going forward, several challenges still remain ahead to ensure the sustainability of
reforms. This will require close cooperation and a shared vision between the government as the
owner, the Central Bank as the banking supervisor, and senior management at the banks. First,
the government as owner needs to ensure that directors serving on the boards of the federal
banks are suitably qualified professionals, with the independence to support and oversee the
execution of the internal changes that are being initiated. Today, standard fit-and-proper criteria
for private bank directors are not applicable to public banks. Public bank directors may be
politically appointed and are thus vulerable to political processes. New strategic plans and
accompanying programs for action must therefore be adopted as binding goals, so that they
better endure changes after the forthcoming elections. Regulatory requirements on governance,
fitness and enforcement should be achieved by incorporation into the by-laws of public banks,
including the details on the profile, qualifications and role of directors serving in the board, and
Annex 2 Page 4 of 17



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reforms
the composition and functions of core committees of the board.6 In this context, the recently
announced decision of the government to pernit the increase in public shareholding of Banco do
Brasil, from the present level of 8.7 percent to 25 percent, to permit its eventual listing on the
Novo Mercado, which indicates adherence to certain principles of good governance, is notable.
9.   Second, senior management of the federal financial institutions needs to have a business
strategy that optimizes the potential of their banking franchise, including the real capital to
finance it, and the systems for the Boards to control, and the Central Bank to monitor, its
execution. Senior management teams have to build reasonable future plans on the
recapitalization programs executed, so that they can preserve the necessary financial
sustainability without incurring new unwarranted risks for which they are not yet prepared
(derived from suddenly diversifying to new market segments). This should include measures to
address the poor efficiency of both banks and rationalize their costs structures without relying
solely on gains from business volumes. The strategies should consider a solution to the
duplication of distribution channels between BdB and CEF, and the sustainability of their
monopolistic access to cheap funding with regard to private sector banks. To the extent that
federal banks are still expected by government to undertake developmental functions,
through the management of special funds or other means, this should be based on the
banks'own risk assessments and remuneration should be at market rates.
10. Third, the Central Bank has to augment the scope of its supervisory approach to
enforce best standards (of fit and properness, corporate risk governance, and control and
information systems) and also to add qualitative judgment in evaluating and monitoring the new
strategy and accompanying financial and capital plans of the federal financial institutions. The
Central Bank would need to achieve this without diminishing the surveillance and examination
efforts to assess their continuous solvency. Once the Central Bank communicates those standards
and finalizes its procedures and methodology to assess adherence to them, it would gain more
capacity to hold the boards of the federal banks accountable to both current quantitative
prudential regulations and to sounder corporate governance and risk management practices. This
can provide an additional layer of protection to extemal policy changes and mitigate any major
deviation from the newly defined commercial goals of the FFI.
11. Recognizing this need, the Central Bank has begun to tighten further its supervision of the
federal financial institutions. In early 2002, a second round of on-site inspections was
launched in the four major banks, focusing on specific areas: management information systems,
the internal audit function and process, credit risk management and models used internally, the
overall risk management function and its processes, and additionally, a partial credit review.
12. Finally, the continued substantial management of special funds by the federal banks
remains a source of potential vulnerability in the future. Three of the four federal banks manage
regional development Constitutionl funds: the North-East fund - FNE, (mananged by BNB), the
Northern fund - FNO (managed by BASA), and the Center-East fund (managed by BdB) - FCO.
In addition, each bank manages additional special funds. In the case of BdB, it is an important
6The Central bank is trying to introduce such changes, in particular to incorporate improvements in fit-and-proper
criteria to serve on Boards of Directors, and introduce greater independence in the functioning of the internal 'fiscal
Board' or inspection committee; in addition to proposal for changes in MIS and internal controls.
Annex 2 Page 5 of 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
agent for the Federal Government's Defense Fund for the Coffee Economy (FUNCAFE),
PRONAF (National Program for the Strengthening of Family-based Agriculture) and
PROCEDER II, the Development Program of the Cerrado Area. Caixa Economica Federal,
although not a recipient of regional funds, nevertheless also had trusteeship responsibilities for
special programs eg through the FGTS, used for housing schemes for the disadvantaged. BNE
has a trusteeship for the FNE fund, the scale of which dwarfs BNO's own operations, and also for
the FINOR, the Northeast Development Fund. Finally, BASA administers, in addition to the
FNO fund, significant volumes of funds from prgrams such as PRONAF and PRORURAL
(Rural Family-Organized Agricultural Production Support Program). Alternative mechanisms for
achieving the embedded social objectives of these programs, without impacting on the financial
soundness of the banks, will need to be assured.7
II. MEASURES TAKEN TO STRENGTHEN INDIVIDUAL BANKS
BANCO DO BRASIL
13.  Banco do Brasil (BdB) is the holding of a large conglomerate of about 23 financial sector
companies. BdB is the largest universal bank in Brazil, with total consolidated assets, as of June
30, 2001, of R$146.7 billion.8 At the end of June 2001, BdB maintained the first position in
market share among the seventeen largest Brazilian banks for total assets (20.7 percent); deposits
(25.2 percent); and, loans (22.1 percent). However, in terms of returns to assets, according to
market analyses, it ranks 16t with 0.43 percent, while for returns on equity it ranks 15'h, with
7.53 percent, among the seventeen largest banks in the country. Its ratios of overheads rank 13'h,
with 75.66 percent, and equity to assets ranks 14'h, with 5.58 percent. Banco do Brasil has a
tremendous franchise value and potential for selling financial products based on its extensive
network (with the largest branch network, of 3,091 branches and a 22.7 percent share in branch
offices).
14. The government maintains a 71.8 percent participation in BdB held by the Treasury. BdB's
Employees Pension Fund (Previ) is its second largest shareholder with a 13.8 percent
participation. Banco do Brasil has a large number of personnel (89,568 employees, second only
to CEF among the top 17), as manifested by its headcount ratio of 29 employees per branch (in
contrast to 23 for the largest fifteen banks excluding BdB and CEF). BdB's stand-alone financial
strength (Moody's) and individual strength (IBCA) ratings rank at the levels of E and D/E,
respectively, i.e., in the lower segment, without considering its potential recourse to, or support
by, the Brazilian State. The principal measures taken for the restructuring of Banco do Brasil are
summarized below.
Restructuring Undertaken - External Debt: 'Brady'Bond Swap
15. Since 1993 BdB had held a portfolio of Brady bonds which had grown increasingly
illiquid. Under the restructuring, the Treasury swapped Bradys for domestic Treasury
7The role and operation of the various special programs operated by the Federal banks will be explored in greater
detail in a forthcoming Bank study on "Access to Financial services in Brazil" (World Bank, 2002).
8Source: Salomon Smith Barney, Brazilian Bank Reference Guides; June 2001 and October 2001.
Annex 2 Page 6 of 17



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reforms
bonds, at market value. The Brady bonds were retired on June 29, 2001. This measure relieved
BdB from the need to provision for the marking-to-market of the Brady bonds, thus improving
profitability, improving liquidity and reducing exposure to exchange rate variations
Restructuring - Securitzation of Rural Debts Under Law 9138/95 - Own Resources and Third-
Party Resources
16. BdB also held a package of securitized agricultural loans. For a part of these, BdB's joint
liability with the State was eliminated marking down BdB's liability to zero percent in place of
50 percent, leading to a reduction in BdB's risk-weighted assets. In addition, BdB will no
longer be subject to credit risk from these operations, thus eliminating the need for provisions
against these assets. New credit risk under these programs, not evaluated by BdB's credit
scoring system will be assumed by the National Treasury, and BdB's credit risk exposure will
therefore be reduced, although with a correspondingly smaller spread.
17.  Another part of the securitized agricultural loans held by BdB were on account of deposits
made by third parties. BdB has been exonerated from the credit risk of these operations
contracted with resources from the Federal Government Development Bank (BNDES), the
Federal Government's Fund for the Development of the Central-Western Region of Brazil
(FCO), the Federal Government's Defense Fund for the Coffee Economy (FUNCAFt) and other
National Treasury funds, thus further decreasing BdB's risk-weighted assets as well as its need
for provisioning for these loans.
Federal Constitutional Fund (FCO) for the Development of the Center-West
18. The Treasury assumed the risk of FCO credits contracted up to November 30, 1998, and
BdB assumed shared risk in operations after that date. This measure should also reduce its risk-
weighted assets. BdB would also lose the interest income of all loans funded with FCO granted
until November 1998, since the credit risk of these operations has passed to FCO itself. Also
from July 2001, in view of their long term nature, the Central Bank allowed BdB to count
resources held in the FCO Constitutional fund as Tier II capital. BdB thus became the first bank
in Brazil to have Tier II capital. BdB thus stopped receiving the management fee from FCO,
equivalent to three percent of the FCO's net worth.
FUNCAFI and PRODECER II (Development Program of the Cerrado Area)
19. Credits contracted with FUNCAFt and PRODECER II funds were also forgiven, leading
to a further reduction in risk-weighted assets.
PESA (Special Program for Asset Recovery)
20. For loans to rural borrowers contracted under the PESA program before 1999, the Treasury
has agreed to take over these loans at their face value in exchange for federal public bonds
(LFTs). The transfer of this portfolio provides a reduction in risk-weighted assets and also a
reduction in provisioning as BdB will no longer be subject to credit risk from these operations.
Accordingly, this measure implies a swap of non-performing assets which yield practically zero
for public securities remunerated at market (Selic) linked rates.
Annex 2 Page 7 of 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Table A2.2 Banco do Brasil Restructuring - Fiscal Impact and Bond Issues
:~~~~~~~~~ T_ L7. ':-. _.:?7 IW 77 St                          W 
,, i,Swap .Brady bonids for. IaIFls _, l i 7:22'<.I  'i"~n   i-.81~  N4  2X C< 
easure __ sc,ExkbU', -!    -    ,,-|_r           usm          0 
i3 .-SRD:Tird Piry's_Reso rei - F, +-L :. Fv L ,1 . '    ; ! '] "5  2 7~ L   1-.5
-5 FUNCA     ahd PROEER'* - -* 4-r; .'~-:'~ '-  . ";   ~ 1!,'r.  7  ..''_ - 
6-5SwapPESAbyEF s.(47i'3)  v r1 137T^1 ~379 l3.8iP ou.i_."1 7Z VI9 L33! :
7 - FQO onvers.on>T  2 a  lU: jSJ -                                      Ji-i 7= i Li2AT'4
R_      u     _P0T . .  ..  _
s As , t l||I 
CAPNCAEcNA a     F PQEDERAL                              ~1-1           . ,-_
Summary of Measures and Restructuring Transactions
21.  The measures adopted allow BdB to (i) reduce its risk-weighted assets by R$6.8 billion
and its required equity by R$751 million; (ii) increase its equity value in the amount of R$3
billion and thus to adjust its capital to minimum standards. BdB's new capital adequacy ratio will
therefore be around 12 percent, versus 8 percent as of April 30.
CAIXA ECONOMIUCA FE-DERAL
22. Caixa Econgmica Federal (CEF) is the second largest federal financial institution operating
in Brazil. Caixa is fully controlled by the Federal goverment and had, as of June 30, 2001,
consolidated assets of R$95.8 billion,9 down about 24 percent from R$125.7 billion in December
2000, due to the effects of the strengthening program. At the end of 2000, Caixa ranked first in
market share for total loans among the largest seventeen Brazilan banks (24.7 percent); the
second for deposits (24.2 percent) and total assets (19.4 percent). Since June 2001, it has ranked
second for deposits (23.4 percent), and fourth for loans (10.5 percent). Caixa also had the lowest
profitability among Brazil's large banks, with negative retumns on assets (-7.9 percent) and
returns on equity (-242 percent) as of June 2001.10 As of December 2001, Caixa ranked 15'h in
returns on assets (0.21 percent) and 1 1th in returns on equity (7.7 percent). Its ratios of overheads
also stand at the end of the ranking amnong the first seventeen largest banks in the Brazil. Caixa
has a valuable franchise and potential for cross selling financial products based on its extensive
network (1,643 branches, 3d with an 11.7 percent share). But it also appears to have high staff
ratios as manifested by its headcount ratio of 62 employees per branch (compared to an average
of 23 for the largest fifteen banks excluding BdB and CEF).
9Source: Salomon Smith Barney, Brazilian Bank Reference Guide June 2001, October 9, 2001.
10 These large figures for end-June partly reflect the adjustments explained in the text, to conform to new prudential
regulations.
Annex 2 Page 8 of 17



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reforms
Restructuring Program of Caixa
23. Principal actions include: (i) transfer of problem real estate loans to a special purpose non-
financial company EMGEA; (ii) assumptions by the govemment of Caixa's debts due to special
Funds it manages for the government; (iii) sale of poor infrastructure loans to the government in
exchange for Treasury Bills; (iv) an increase of CEF's capital by converting debts previously
acquired by Caixa under the PROER program; (v) a swap of CVS securities for new govemment
bonds (LFTs); (vi) the future swap of CVS bonds for LFTs at the moment of renewing FCVS
loans; and (vii) the advanced settlement of debts with the FGTS by means of payment with CVS
bonds.
Transfer of real estate loans to EMGEA
24. A large part of Caixa's total loan portfolio of R$34.7 billion in April 2001, consisted of
'skeletons'; bad real estate loans contracted before 1995. These were transferred to a special
purpose non-financial corporation, EMGEA, created by the government. Loans transferred
include around R$15 billion which were already a liability to the Treasury and were covered by
FCVS bonds (Fundo de CompensaVdo das Variaqdes Salariais); some were without coverage."I
In payment, the government assumed a large proportion of Caixa's debts to FGTS (the Federal
Unemployment Fund), FAHBRE and FDS. These measures reduce the need for provisioning
and needs for additional capital. The government will exchange new CVS bonds for the bad
assets that were to be covered by FCVS bonds.
Early settlement of Caixa's debts with FGTS
25. This measure entails the cancellation of Caixa's debts with FGTS using CVS bonds as
mean of payment, further relieving Caixa of provisioning needs.
Transfer to the government of the credit risk in loans funded with FGTS resources
26. The government also acquired the remainder of Caixa's loan portfolio, consisting largely
of urban and infrastructure loans granted with the resources of FGTS, and paying below market
interest, replacing them with newly issued market interest bearing Treasury Bills (Selic-indexed
LFTs). This measure reduces the need for provisioning and additional capital requirements.
Swap of problem loans with government bonds
27. Caixa's assets included loans made against assets received from the government in a
previous refinancing transaction, referred to as Law 8727/93 (debt restructuring from states and
municipalities). These loans were also exchanged for new Treasury bills (LFTs). Although this
11 The FCVS was a treasury fund created in the high inflation era to compensate banks for losses made in providing
cheap mortgage loans, which had inadequate inflation indexing. Although the bonds carry a sovereign risk, they
carry a below market coupon, benefit from a grace period for interest and principal repayments, are illiquid and
marked to market would be heavily discounted.
Annex 2 Page 9 of 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
measure does not have any direct impact on provisioning or capital requirements, since the debts
were guaranteed by the federal government, it will have a major effect in improving the liquidity
and profitability of Caixa.
Recapitalization - Assumption of CEFs debts (PROER) by the National Treasury
28. The Treasury also assumed Caixa's liabilities to the Central Bank (due to operations
carried in connection with PROER involving the acquisition of housing loans from problem
banks and converted .into capital. at CEF). It paid the Central Bank with Treasury bonds. This
measure reduces the liabilities of Caixa with the Central Bank raising its capital. Besides the
increase in capital, this measure will improve Caixa's operational cash flow and margins
substantially saving annual funding costs. A part of the new capital has been used to provision
against bad loans.
Summary of Measures and Restructuring Transactions
29. The measures adopted allow Caixa to reduce its estimated losses in the amount of R$52.7
billion and increase its equity by R$9.4 billion, conforming to minimum capital requirements.
CEF's new capital adequacy ratio is 14.8 percent. Caixa's balance sheet has shrunk by about a
third, to around R$90 billion.
Table A2.3 Caixa Econ8mica Federal Restructuring - Fiscal Impact and Bond Issues
U EsfenI?F.GTS las X {_-   8) 36t?' Oi8 S 06 ~ {ri4lt85 i 78-j; X lj  g  .-s  v3 ':t
i~t~FQF~de&~ _.-li,         *     * . 7.7l.0  .  -  -4           I 4 7   - t "Wiv
respec,tively,4t_ i9 and 3 in; .ir¢Jthe ligst of Brazil's top 50 banks. As wit B th stentenn
1t NRTERN PDERL BNK - N       NDBS
programs for BNB and BASA provide, among other things, that they could treat resources from
the Constitutional Funds FNE and FNO respectively, as Tier 2 capital provided the banks assume
a 100 percent of the credit risk when granting loans funded by the Fund.
Annex 2 Page 10 of 17



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reformns
BANCO Do NORDESTE Do BRASEL (BNB)
31. The bank was established under Law Number 1649 of July 1952 and began to operate in
1954 in Fortaleza. As a Government Development Bank, it's mission is to 'contribute to the
sustained development of the Northeast region of Brazil, to promote the region's economic
integration with Brazilian and international economies and to work towards reducing regional
and social inequality.' Many of the programs it finances constitute a part of social development
plans promoted by the federal government. BNB operates, among other incentive programs, the
FNE (Constitutional Fund of Development of the Northeast) and FINOR (Northeast
Development Fund) programs. The bank also operates as a commercial bank in the Northeast
and regards this function as complimentary to its development function. Its present strong
management team is competent, knowledgeable and attempts to operate the bank along the lines
of a commercial bank. The Directors of BNB, as with all Federal Banks are politically appointed
and can be replaced by the new Government which will be voted in November of 2002.
32. As a development bank, BNB's activities are long term in nature, and the bank's viability
depends to a significant extent on the availability of continuous FNE funds. A major portion of
the bank's income consists of fees received for the Administrated Funds. BNB's liabilities
consist largely of deposits from the BNDES bank, including its FINAME subsidiary and the
FAT (Workers Support Fund). Approximately half of the credit extended by BNB is channeled
in accordance with specific developmental criteria to the Agricultural and Industrial sectors.
33. The June 2001 Government Strengthening program announced its intention of addressing
BNB's needs for financial restructuring through the following measures:
* A capital injection in the form of govemment securities. Budgetary approval was sought
for R$2.6 billion for the year 2000 for this purpose, which was transferred on December
28, 2001.
* Exclusion of rural credit operations (Law No. 9138/95) from the calculations of risk
weighted assets of BNB. The Federal Government will assume the credit risk of those
operations.
* Exemption from the credit risk of FNE operations before November 1998.
* Use of FNE funds as Tier-2 capital if it assumes 100 percent of credit risk.
34. BNB has prepared a December-31, 2001 financial statement reflecting both adjustments to
loan losses as well as the new capital injection.
BANCO DA AMAZONIA (BASA)
35. BASA was incorporated in 1966 with the mission of promoting social and economic
development as a financing agent of the Federal Government for the Region of Amazonia. It
was with the advent of the 1988 Constitution that the Northern Region gained a stable source of
financing for productive activities, These funds enabled BASA to effectively intervene in the
Region. Over the last eleven years BASA has entered into approximately 140 thousand credit
operations in the rural sector, with 87 percent of these going to small scale family-based
production through the National Program for Strengthening Family based Agriculture
(PRONAF), and the Rural Family-Organized Agricultural Production Support Program
Annex 2 Page 11 of 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(PRORURAL). BASA's branch network totals 82 branches and 15 banking locations. Outside
its own geographic area it has established branches in 4 major cities of the country in order to be
able to raise additional funds for its operations.
36. Over the period of three years, 1998 through 2000, the bank's profitability  has
experienced significant volatility, jumping from R$25 million in 1998 to R$74 million in 1999
and decreasing to R$51 million in 2000.
37. In the case of BASA, the Strengthening Program envisaged
*  A capital injection of about R$1.05 billion.
*  Exemption of credit risk from FNO operations granted before Nov/1998, which amounts
to R$1.4 billion.
* Elimination of BASA' s payment obligations of securitized operations
*  Use of FNE funds as tier-2 capital if it assumes 100 percent of credit risk.
* Exchange of long-term loans granted under Law No. 8727 of November 1993 for bonds
of the national treasury. This would allow BASA to cover the deficit of its pension fund
(Fundo de Pensdo dos Empregados - CAPAF).
38. BASA's end of the year financial statement for 2001 reflects these adjustments.
III. STATE BANK REFORM - PROGRAM BACKGROUND
39. In mid-1996 the Government of Brazil instituted the "Program of Incentives for the
Reduction of the States' Participation in Banking Activities" (PROES), aiming at curbing the
banking activities of subnational entities (States and Municipalities).12 The intention was both to
curb credit expansion to such entities, which had contributed to the fiscal and monetary disarray
which led to the hyperinflations suffered by Brazil in the 1980's and early 1990's, and also to
reduce possible contingent liabilities of the Federal Government and local governments. The
Cardoso Administration was also interested in increasing the presence of stronger private entities
to foster more competition and the exit of insolvent banking institutions which were not
complying with minimal prudential norms but were in nevertheless in operation and in
competition with compliant financial institutions.
40. Since March 1998, fiscal agreements between the States and the Federal Government
included agreements with the States to reduce their indebtedness. And even before this, earlier
agreements (1986) required States to comply with rules prohibiting or at least restricting direct
financing from their own banks.  But in practice, these rules were bypassed through
"triangulation" mechanisms through state suppliers or foreign branches of the state banks,
progressively raising the states' indebtedness with sub-nationally owned banks. Under the
PROES program and until 2010, state bond issues are forbidden and rollovers are limited to no
more than 95 percent of redemptions.
12As described in footnote 1 in this annex.
Annex 2 Page 12 of 17



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reforns
41.   Under PROES, sub-national govemments were presented with five options:
*   Restructuring the banks owned by them;
* Transferring the control of these banks to the Federal Government;
*   Selling these banks to the private sector;
*   Transforming these banks into development agencies; or
*  Closing these banks.
42. In exchange for any of these five actions, the National Treasury financed either fifty
percent or a hundred percent of the owner's liabilities; fifty percent if the institution remained in
operation as a commercial bank, or up to a hundred percent in other cases. Financing was offered
at 6 percent per annum, with an inflation index (IGP-DI) applied to the value of liabilities. In
exchange for the debt sub-national governments would receive two types of Government paper
(LFT-As and LFI'-Bs) with up to 15-year maturity and, in some cases, with monthly
amortization payments. An additional enhancement was the option to swap the LFT- for cash.
43. It should be pointed out that in parallel to pressures from the federal government to change
the role of state banks, state governments too became less anxious to retain their banks, as they
diminished in importance as revenue sources with the loss in float income. Additionally, with the
introduction of Central Bank regulations on loan classification and provisioning, ownership of
state banks threatened to become a liability. Thus many state governments began to participate
with new interest in the federal government's privatization proposals.
44. Private, local or foreign, commercial bank buyers were offered a number of incentives to
purchase these State banks. These included: (i) time-bound exemptions from the Central Bank's
reserve requirements on bank deposits (regulatory forbearance); (ii) the use of tax credits; (iii)
guarantees that public sector employees' accounts would be kept at the State level for five years;
and (iv) use of 'privatization currencies'."3 These 'sweetners' have played a significant role in
some privatizations. The use of privatization currencies at a discount of roughly 50 percent was
an accepted form of payment in the auctions of Banerj and CrediReal (state banks of Rio de
Janeiro and Minhas Gerais, respectively). More recently, 74 percent of the privatization of BEG,
the state bank of Goias, in December 2001, was paid for in government securities. The value of
other incentives such as tax credits and exemptions from reserve requirements has diminished
over time. Tax credits were more relevant in the period before 1999, when private banks had a
low volume of such credits and interest rates were high. 14 Exemptions from reserve requirements
13 Debts contracted in the past with the federal government netted out against payments for acquisition of state-
owned companies. Acceptable privatization currencies including select Treasury notes in the series NTN-M,
mortgage notes of the CEF, agricultural debt notes (TDA), and others. (Details are available in
httpJ/www.bndes.gov.br/english/coinsing.htm) The minimum cash percentage acceptable for each privatization is
determined by the President of the republic.
14 So that low cost deposits could profitably be invested in low-risk government securities, and tax credits were
quickly used. But today, private banks on average in Brazil have tax credits representing 30 percent of their equity,
and interest rates have halved; thus the time in which tax credits can be used is extended and their current value is
reduced
Annex 2 Page 13 of 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
have also been of reduced value with overall interest rate and reserve requirement reductions, as
in 2000.
45. State bank acquisitions in Brazil have been a part of a larger process of consolidation in the
banking system, where a number of small private banks have also been acquired."5 The three
largest private banks, Bradesco, Itaui and Unibanco, have been responsible for the lion's share of
acquisitions of state banks in the sector since 1997, when the state bank privatization began.
According to analysts, early bank acquisitions, including the state bank privatizations such as
Banerj and Bemge (both acquired by Itau), and Credireal, (which was bought by BCN/Bradesco)
were quite cheap. The consolidation process was just beginning, and high domestic interest rates
(with real rates above 25 percent) effectively overrode the need for scale, as a bank could
continue not lending while still registering comfortable margins. In the second phase, after the
devaluation of 1999 and the consequent loss of 'float' income, scale of operations, and the
value of a branch network, began to increase in relevance, with falling domestic interest rates,
and a rising shares of loans in bank assets. State bank acquisitions grew much more expensive, as
witnessed by the high premium paid in the acquisition of Banestado by Itau' (R$1.65 billion, and
a premium of 303 percent over the reserve price).'6
46. In the third and current phase, scale in the retail banking sector has become a key focus
foreign banks have realized the need to grow in scale to maintain a relevant role, and there is an
increasing scarcity of alternatives, for raising scale. Recent prices paid have exceeded
expectations. The present stage began with the privatization of Banespa in November 2000, and
intensified thereafter with the privatization of BEG, sold to Itau for R$665 million (US$271
million); more than twice its book value, a year later. Privatizations in 2001, which resumed
after a year long hiatus, have again accelerated in pace. Together with the sale of BEG, two
further sales concluded in late 2001 and early 2002; Banco do Estado da Paraiba (sold to ABN
Amnro for R$76.5 million (a direct sale by the State, rather than by the Federal authorities) and
Banco do Estado do Amazonas; sold to Bradesco for R$182.9 million. With a limited supply of
banks remaining to be privatized, future transactions of banks deemed to have strategic value,
such as that of the Banco do Estado de Santa Catarina (BESC), may become more expensive.
However, attention is also likely to turn increasingly towards small private banks.
15 Details of the launching of the privatization process and huge difficulties encountered are discussed in Harry
Makler (2000) "Bank Transformation and Privatization in Brazil" Conference on Bank Privatization, Federal
Reserve Bank of Dallas / World Bank.
16 Private bank acquisition premia also rose, as observed in the purchases of Banco Real by ABN-Amro,
Bandeirantes by Unibanco and Boavista by Bradesco.
Annex 2 Page 14 of 17



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reforms
STATE BANK RESTRUCTURING - RESULTS
Table A2.4 Brazil: State Bank Restructuring and Privatization
lklL Jt.izns1- _-_     1 '      , ;T-~ r~                 BKdeT,A BU      B-Aii 
~                . i  4             '       !X1 g~inasc
; X ; b    y~~~~~~~~~~~~T              Ba,p (P) as~BRX
:,  . 74j       Z                (eaneaeb          ji)jiBaesitado1n
:''.S. a t i-Rnsne.,byA .e ,, th-e. ,, -taL  ,_ C 
B I;V i P5a1ieZr & C e edeJ 5k ,,'' JM?                         A                  1
III-. Statizat      eds.(apitaLzed7-              M B Nes ;'
W'teniCrietiI1c              - '1&                 ? ,,I'I
l,' eveiopment A'gehcies.., . .i ,-      'M;   acosrosso,mnas..rais(dmgParks1i, i'
~~~~~ Li.                                             &6n*~ ~ V(ucax)  O~rta.CBd~sj~i
;,V:.,.No D,e jndUnl&Pr'oe^,rogra '^ 2',. -'w..,.,n  '.)B,^(,P           P    ,
47.  At the launching of the PROES there were 35 State-owned financial institutions, out of
which 23 were organized as commerciaVluniversal banks. As of March 2002, the results were
impressive (see Table above):
* 10 State banks were liquidated (BANER) or under liquidation (9 under ordinary
proceedings and 1 - PRODUBAN- under extraordinary liquidation proceedings);
* 14 banks had either been fully privatized (10 banks), or had been "federalized" as a prior
step to their privatization (4 banks). Out of the 14 banks 7 were being privatized directly
by the States and 7 by the Federal Governmnent, including the enormous BANESPA, sold
to Banco Santander Central Hispanico from Spain;
* 5 State Banks had been recapitalized;
*  16 State Development Agencies, some of which were previously financial institutions
(either banks or S&Ls/coops., "caixas") were in operation;
* 3 State banks were not part of the PROES program; and
* 2 States did not have official financial institutions (Mato Grosso do Sul and Tocantins).
48.  The sale of the State banks has so far yielded R$ 1.48 billion (close to US$4.6 billion), out
of which 62.4 percent came from the sale of BANESPA.'7 Most of the funds are being used to
net out State debts with the Federal Government, including funds to recapitalize restructured
state banks.
17 Apart from total price, payments to employees etc. are also added in the Central Bank estimates, which may
therefore differ slightly from private ones.
Annex 2 Page 15 of 17



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Table A2.5 Privatization of Former State-Controlled Banks (R$ million)
Bancodd EstadodoRio        1901                  '                           Acquirr0
de Janeiro'(BANERJ>  Stae'' J  - I .1   2,841-  0  .:
Bainc-de Crtdukeai"   i    _ 861 - 98  1014I  115' I  8n7i997  121" 13  11%   B Bmdescd
de Minas Germas  I S. :te   -1                          .  T_ ?  p  _-;- r-
_ _**T-  ~ -I,r1P r'.-   I. .                        I _f__*ti_|_  --Er. '' - < 
BancodoEstadode  '     L   472! 238$ 3235    2101 9/14t19981 ,314 603!  92      _,
Minas Gerais (BEMGE)  - S7'   1          " . - - -
Banco'do Eszudo , i |; '; , ., '  ',,  152, 173,  737,  166j 1u1U197  183  1831  %  ABN Amro
Pemambuco,        Smae    - --- --.--- I- -
J -'                               _J ~~~~  1 I- 
(ANDBPEj ..AK L.Ji          ..|. .--  . p !     1    .        iK   .- 
Banco dEstadoeS             170 d3a' 2,00,1L  30 0 612/1999  25  260 -     3%  Bradesco
Bahia(BANEB)   , - j tate                          -                  T     '
.1> ;~l= _ :!11- I  __4            .!.---.--- 
BancodoEstado'do   -   .   3761  528- 73129'  347 l0/172000' 43 %1a625' dt39i%L   Ita6
Pnana (BANESTADOj1e' --                         1                     -- 
Bancodo etadode Sao Fed.' 1:  ,.578 5,524, 30.633   1 41. [i 1/2k0/2000 1,850 7,05,0,,, .281L'  Santander
Paulo (BANESPA)    ovt ,   ''           . '                                I
BancodoEstadoda  LStale' -   8!   42   465  M   11/8/2001   50   79   _;58%1 ABNAmro
Paia,ba(PARAIBhN),          _ J; 'L.', _"''  .         -    _.  _ ;,_
3,a co do Esutado de I. Pe  _ - 5' ,_ 200 ;i,358L  591 12//2[ 3 , 5, ,  ,6   7' , - 7,   ,_
GoiiAs(BEG) I. o. - .        2  -    ,   IL7.i                   - . -, .  -
Bacodo'Es dodo  ;PFed. |    3    139   622L nd. _ I1240[        183'     0%' Bradesco
A   -ianas(BEA) - -- Gov   -               - 'L2S.                  _ - ` I >  - !  - - -- r   -K _ _ _ ,
s~~~         ~  *.i -b                      -  -         ,  ..;:sS t < l i"" -  -I
49. The privatization of state banks is slowly coming to an end: Four state banks remain to be
sold, and the process is expected to be concluded by mid-2002. This final wave of privatizations
is not expected to generate the level of enthusiasm seen in the past. Three of four remaining state
banks are in remote and, for the most part, poor northeastern states, with little strategic value for
the established players who often do not even have a presence in those areas. Nevertheless, it is
expected that large private banks such as Bradesco and Itau will bid in most, if not all of the
auctions, for purely defensive reasons, i.e., to keep out competitors from those markets. An
example of this can be seen by the latest acquisition of The State Bank of Amazonas (BEA) by
Bradesco on January 24, 2002. Whilst Itau had qualified for the privatization process, it did not
compete in the auction.
Annex 2 Page 16 of 17



Annex 2 - Public Bank Reforms
Table A2.6 Brazil - The Last Wave of State Bank Privatizations (R$ million)
___f7O (B                        ___. :.  I   .   .7
_   .  7 _    .   .,
TA`i3v` MLa25 L                          -
Ba-ohdLEtSQ  oSnta Eia B E,S      wM5s6 r;fi        2   2               d-2 _
50. It is possible that the Central Bank will once more have to use incentives to facilitate the
sale of most of these banks, including exemptions from reserve requirements, the use of
privatization currencies, and the inclusion of tax credits. The only exception is likely to be Banco
do Estado de Santa Catarina (BESC), with a market share of 30 percent in the state of Santa
Catarina, 600,000 clients, 256 branches and 529 service outlets, R$1.8 billion in assets and
R$661 million in equity. BESC will be privatized by the Federal Government after injecting
R$1.25 billion in Federal Government paper to cover its bad loans. While this bank is much
smaller than Banestado or Banespa, it is the largest of the remaining banks, and it is located in
the wealthy Southern part of the country. The auction of BESC is therefore likely to be heavily
contested, with few, if any, sweeteners from the government.
Annex 2 Page 17 of 17



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
ANNEX 3: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES'
1.     Analysis of financial access is a relatively new concept, and as ongoing analyses reveal, it
is a mulitidimensional issue. According to many measures of financial access, Brazil is not
obviously lagging in terms of its provision of financial services, compared to other developing
countries, especially those in the Latin America region. Yet there is considerable scope for it to
better its performance. On the one side, the Brazilian financial system is the largest in the region
and offers a broad variety of services to its clients. Yet, on the other side, the absolute numbers
of Brazilians without access to financial services is large. As discussed below (Part I), financial
access is low in Brazil relative to its potential. Authorities in Brazil are very aware of the
challenge of expanding the provision of financial services, and a number of recent measures have
been taken to increase access (Part II). But a number of challenges lie ahead, which could require
the exploration of new incentives, new institutional arrangements, and new infrastructure for
Brazil's financial system (Part IH).
CURRENT LEVELS OF ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES
Access - Depth of Intermediation
2.     Looking first at the overall depth of financial intermediation, Brazil is an average
performer. Although Brazil does better than its large Latin American neighbors such as Mexico
and Argentina, also deemed to be among the middle income countries of the region, it can also
be pointed out that Brazil performs poorly compared to the emerging markets of East Asia; many
with a lower per capita income. Extending the comparators to include more developed countries
it is clear that Brazil has a much lower overall share of credit to the private sector by financial
intermediaries to GDP than countries such as the US or UK (Figure A3.1; Table A3.1).
Figure A3.1 Brazil and Other Countries - Percent Share of Credit in GDP - (1999)
Pdivate Credit / GDP
250 0 229 5
200 0
157 2
150.0            136.3  1325
107.5
oo.o ' ss _ _ ~~~~~~~~~94 X
100.0 
50.0 -                        .          486  35.         250
00                                                        2 
SouceIMP Itenalonal Finacial Statistlcs World Development Wnicators
This Annex is an extract from an extensive study on Access to Financial Services in Brazil being undertaken as
Bank AAA, in collaboration with the Central Bank of Brazil (forthcoming, 2002).
Annex 3 Page 1 of 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustmnent Loan
Table A3.1 Brazil and Other Emerging Economies - Depth of Financial Markets (1999/2000)
Ilrz:;     . j 50.9  39.0  ! 1 7.0 L  r,  : 40-9 L 08-9i 139-7i 4,3   50L 7 80739
Argenuina    24.2                                             . 440  ,2 118  e10. 81... 7,550L  231i66
Mexico.'    -323    -2.7I      7.9,    * 92_ 4            . 6                6 _,366
China~ -  i ' ',128.9 . _' 42.5  668   l 9.5      8.5       ,  799   80    53,717
Malaysiae_                    6544.85' _1 ,465   _5L   6 296k  50-KO1  390  jjL3
Korea _  I ! 40.3K.  64.i7 1 _ 233 11L _  _6L L  .45 1L  _  267.0 L  8,49 L,99I,49
Access - Regional Distribution of Financial Services and Bank Branch Density
3.    It is however uncontestable that access to financial services is unevenly distributed
geographically, with sparse services in the poorer parts of the country. Evidence on the skewed
regional distribution of financial services in the country is presented in Tables A3.2 and A3.3
below, which show that banking facilities are concentrated in large southeastern states. Around
57 percent of all municipalities in the Northeast and in the North and nearly 20 percent of the
population in these states have no access to a bank branch. Nationwide, 30 percent of all
municipalities and 6 percent of the population, have no access to formal financial services. There
are seven states (out of 27), mostly in the North, where the share of municipalities with no bank
branch is over 70 percent. About 1,680 poorer and arguably less populated municipalities, out of
a total of some 5,600 municipalities, have not a single bank branch.
4.     Even when bank branches are present, services are more constrained in bank branches in
poorer regions. Each bank branch in the North and Northeast of Brazil has to serve nearly three
times as many clients as in the South. However, this is also explained in part by lower overall
levels of economic activity in these regions. Although each branch has to serve almost three
times as many clients, GDP per bank branch in the North is less than twice as high as in the
South. (Table A3.2).
Table A3.2 Brazil - Regional Distribution of Bank Branch Density
~~._   .____  _ _       __            , c      17 5 1
Nori _.j! ~~~~~~~~~,83!                        :    4t _1w0 L _  67.1 ! a9.
NorEheast _                                     742,S38j  -,546;-  34431  _ : 6055
nS,ou-beast__  ' __7,'8-70J [- :28-i L      .    8 -0iL     iL-8709,66 ~.. j, 112
South=-r    -:. . -  6X174 r      3I44Q-i  __    ,      :-
.Centrao'West:7'  _  6,i'8]719_     301;    j7   8,07h1  ,      494li       T3J
Annex 3 Page 2 of 19



17
aq, ov:4;:N   -n  cg? .,q Inj                     -en     't
e4
-J:r- 00. 0, Ill; tc  00          ql  .1                                                                                                  00
r;                                          ol                                                                                                  o
00         :31 ;6  -cii r-j    1,01 r-:j i  61         r4t        on.
Z,                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cr)
it
:1              ZS. f
6l,:                       A! C', .!  20      O  ci
In  "I la, 'C                                                                                 "On. .O=O.
A                              001,     -1 ml 00                                       -1     r--
io-                                                                loo,
z--3              A L
Ix                                                                                                                                                                                          7L
ii6 'n,
1;:- ;
I.D. Ar -                                                                                                              oa
T
A
(31' O' IN
eq                                   -fli 00
-n
N                                                                      f                                              C41    1z;%
7, tn                                                                                                Ca
2L
Cd
00
cq
..C                                                                                                                                                                                       C#)
j                                                                                                          00. r         Wl
J L.
'el                                                    L
;  -                     .
-00; A,                             IcT
eq                      r                                             1;                 I
oo:.o      ao                ia-, ""                 ,, -'O I 2;
C, m
:r-I C-4
lgg.                                      T---
%n 'N
-!,Lm   in
ti                                                                                                                                        ..... ..
r4, 1WIl rW'- C4'        00
W..                                                                                                                                             vo      In
r                                                                                                                                                              CA
a     rZ                 :r
o,n                    fn , ''
;74 i                                                   It' t-     IV: r                                                                                     0    Rt
00                            1-   Z
tn
V
71                              J
i`2                                                                                 Cd
J'a               V
a: -2: jg:        lp                                                                                     t4
''m                                                        T      luj ilz
L                                                                                                 AI:
W) -C



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Figure A3.2 Brazil and Other Countries - Population Served per Bank Branch
Population per branch, a Regional Comparison  Population per branch, an International Comparison
20,00  v'i0   17459              16,000              1 '  8
tn.0o0                          14,000                   12.547
16.000                          0.0011924
14,000                           .07
12.000                          12,000
to.ooo  -   I   8.090       8,071  8 .000
6.000
4.000                           4.000                       3.568
4,00             2.001,9 59                                         1,479  2.331
0                               0rl
North  Northea.t  Southeast  S0u1h  Central  Brazil Colomabsaeatre o  Chile  Indlta ladonest  USA  JaDan Germnany Froere
West
Source: World Bank staff estimates
6.     But comparisons with other developing countries suggest that Brazil is not obviously
under-branched (Table A3.4). Brazil has more bank branches relative to population than other
Latin American countries and India and Indonesia, two large developing countries. Measured
relative to GDP, its bank branch intensity is lower than Colombia, India and Indonesia, which
are all poorer than Brazil, but the two latter are much more densely populated. Branch intensity
relative to GDP in Brazil is higher than in Mexico or Chile, although both are richer than Brazil.
Table A3.4 Brazil and Other Countries - Bank Branch Density
Bz    ,l  '  _  3,15_ j !9331      ;         29.41          470 '
olombia                  t2 2,085,I ,            10,931 , 2_8.- 273 .'   _ 53'_1
Mexo          4,969,  _   11,9241.          59.3_           36           :.Py
Chtle ~ 1, - - 4,505 ,    10,727,   7 .     4:             535 1F-
dia      i     _ 48.       14,888      L7-   ...6.7 44                    -0.001
__donesia. 9 ,- 68311,   -12,547             56 8 
rncoi 'i-       6         -*--------                     -,---     -   --,                -- -- -----*-- _ -j  __J1  _   r- - --,-  ----_ 
'SA.         33087i       -3568     .       .8.01.           117          -0.17
Japan  -     _ 34,344 .     1' ' _ 959_' i.,__ 67.3j1         6M     X0 .221
TrnIany       25,724        1A79j         -38.1,,-- _        6.       _   086
i France 11    24,434'] 7    2,33I1,          57.0:           221
7.     Measured according to average geographic area covered per branch, Brazil appears at
first to be under-banked relative to all other comparator developing countries except for Chile.
However, this is easily explained by the low population density of Brazil and the vast areas that
are not populated. An econometric estimation of predicted branch intensity compared to actual
intensity for Brazil and other countries, correcting for differences in branch intensity explained
by differences in GDP, total population, and geographic size finds that Brazil is the only
Annex 3 Page 4 of 19



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
developing economy that is not under-banked by this standard, since its actual branch intensity is
higher than predicted.
8.    Banks' decisions to open or maintain branches are affected by the high fixed costs
involved as well as restrictive regulations on labor and security. Recognizing this, in the last one
year, authorities have passed new regulations on correspondent banking (discussed further in
Part II below), which enable the provision of banking services with fewer restrictive regulatory
requirements. Many banks are beginning to provide banking services to low income segments
through such correspondent services or service outposts, provided at outlets such as post offices,
shop or supermarket chains, and in the case of one bank, through a lottery chain. Caixa
Econ6mica Federal, which runs the Casa Loterica chain, estimates that the average cost of a bank
transaction at a correspondent bank is only a fourth as much as at a branch. Banks also provide
services via ATM machines, via the internet, and over the phone. Some of these are discussed
further below. Measuring banking services provision through bank branches alone thus fails to
capture the full range of vehicles for delivery of financial services. Data so far indicate that
public and foreign banks rely more on service outposts than private domestic banks, whereas
private domestic banks rely more on ATMs.
Table A3.5 Types of Bank Services Offered by Different Bank Groups
R_ - __N
~~~~~~~k'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
:Fbi  c;    ,c.X_tt _,4£,6, k              7t r,,. >,  0g,,t,   k.s,
New Technologiesfor Access -Automatic TeUler Machines
9.    Access to automatic teller machines has increased substantially over the last five years
(from about 5,000 in 1996 to more than 16,000 in 2001) in all regions of Brazil, though service
may again be biased in favor of the southern regions.2 In terms of numbers of ATMs, fifty-nine
percent are in the Southeast, compared to only four percent in the North. In terms of ATMs per
inhabitant, the Southeast, Center-West and South of Brazil are clearly the best served. But
adjusting for differences in levels of economic activity, regional differentials are less distinct.
The Northeast of Brazil actually has a fairly high density of ATMs relative to GDP per capita,
while ratios for the South and Center-West are low. However, the Southeast is still clearly the
best off region, even adjusting for income differentials, while the North is clearly the worst off.
2These figures include the number of Electronic Service Points of each bank ("Postos de Atendimento Bancario
Eletr6nico" as defined by the Central Bank of Brazil), plus the Banco24Horas ATM network shared by 61 financial
institutions in Brazil.
Annex 3 Page 5 of 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Figure A3.3 Brazil - Regional Distribution of ATMs Relative to Population and Income
AlMs in % of regional GDP per capita         Number of ATMs per million Inhabitants
K40%                        139%5B140                                7l
tZO%                           1~~~~~~~~~~20         9
100%                         _O
30%                                        807
60%                                        60
40%                                        4
20%          2f 2                          0            9-
D0%           *-t                              
No rth  Northeast  South  Southeast Center-west  North  Northeast  South  Southeast Center-west
New Technologies for Access - Phone and Internet
10.    Brazil's large banks have substantially endeavored to expand internet usage among their
clients. All of Brazil's largest banks have developed extensive internet-based activities, and
comparisons with Asia's emerging economies based on survey evidence suggest that a higher
percentage of users in Brazil make extensive use of new technologies (Figure A3.4). Experts
believe that the number of internet users in Brazil will double by 2005.
Figure A3.4 Brazil and Asia - New Technologies for Banking
Internet       ATM               iblephone           Teller
41        B9                          67                 86
Totalusage                 .I
some orfew     30         12                          60                72
bankng  2            15                   :16                  21
tunsactio  l*
Use foraor 5t9                                    39                         98
most     u3
bashin               .-6                 -  _     39                     85
tasi actto nz         j _ l
So"swJ  Credit Sigle hFt 10.05.. MclI . ey. World Bek taffeltiwme.
11.    Brazil's banks are even succeeding in closing the gap with the USA in terms of internet
penetration among clients (Figure A3.5). It appears that whereas the use of computers and the
internet in Brazil for recreational and leisure activities is lower than in the USA, for purposes of
work and including services such as banking, Brazil scores better than the USA, at least among
the connected segment of the population.
Annex 3 Page 6 of 19



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
Figure A3.5 Brazil and the USA - Internet Use and Online Banking
Activities of regular Internet users               Online Banking
Mlllions oton-iine users  Customer base
Chatted on-line                          do                      penetration
rancod         2 05 1
On-line banking                       Banco
Bradesco
Schoolreaearcb                =      Ban Itau       L40                20
Used searchengihe            [Bz        Unibaco  0.50                    20
.u QU S    Bankof             2 70        19
Work research                         AEwrsoa
Wells Fargo         2 30  - -  -    1 26
Fist Union210                  13
0   10  20  30  40  50  60
So-rer Wield daakstaffeslnsmtes  FbletBoston2 E    1 too                     30
12.    Brazil's banks and banking authorities recognize that service delivery through these
mechanisms can be highly cost effective. The Central Bank of Brazil has estimated that internet
is the cheapest channel to deliver financial services, followed by ATMs, telephones and finally
branches. Its estimates suggest that, in 2001, the average banking transaction cost using internet
was R$0.24 (US$10 cents), compared to R$0.33 (US$13 cents) for telephone dial-in banking
services and R$2 (US$80 cents) for transactions at a branch. Precise estimates vary by source,
but all confirm huge savings in using alternative delivery channels. The majority of Brazilian
banks do not charge clients for using the internet to carry out their banking transactions. Some
also offer subsidized financing for the purchase of personal computers. Moreover, the phone
industry is quite competitive, and cellular phone charges have fallen significantly over the last
few years.
Figure A3.6 Brazil and Other Countries - Bank Transaction and Cellular Phone Costs
Etimated cost per banking transaction   Analog cellular 3 minute call, average price ($)
140 .   :120                        1.2-   Lo
120 -        t 081 
1.00  j:                              0.         0.81        0.73         069
0O0                                                       0.68-            6
0 so -                       0.6 -             ~~~~~~~0.6   0.5
060                     $0.330.33      0.4 -                       0.2
0.40                $~'0. .2
0.20                                   0|2
0.00                L.0
Blanch        Online                  1998        1999        2000
3 US    * Latin America  Brazil           * Brazil Cl Canada a HongKong M South Africa
Source: World Bank. Tower Group Research
13.    However, large disparities in access to internet and phone services are recognized to
exist, which have limited the use of these technologies to extend financial services to the poorer
segments of the population. An estimated 90 percent of the 8 million intemet banking users
belong to high income classes. Only about 4 percent of total individual bank clients used intemet
banking in 1999 and only 10 percent of corporate users. Access is in part limnited by supply, as
the smaller Brazilian banks do not have websites, but also due to low connectivity, especially in
rural areas, although growing rapidly.
Annex 3 Page 7 of 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
14.    The telephone may allow banks to penetrate better lower segments. Surveys indicate that
a much wider range of persons (in terms of per-capita income) owns cell phones than computers,
and the cost of a cellular phone call is much cheaper than in many other countries in the world
(Figure A3.6). However cellular phone call charges remain much higher than fixed line call
charges and in addition, the subscriber must buy the phone itself, and pay an activation fee which
is high relative to per capita income.
Access - Availability of Financial Services for SmaU Entrepreneurs
15.    The skewed distribution of financial services in Brazil extends to the relative scarcity of
capital for small and medium size enterprises. Some studies on growth constraints of small and
medium enterprises show that 54 percent of the entrepreneurs of this segment indicate that lack
of financing was the main impediment for their expansion. This is a particularly important issue
in Brazil, given the enormous representation of this segment especially in terms of numbers of
establishments and in employment. In 1994 SMEs were estimated to represented 99 percent of
all enterprises; they employed around 59 percent of the labor force and produced 41.1 percent of
the income of manufacturing industry.3 Looking at microenterprises alone, as many as 90 percent
of all firms in Brazil belong to this category.4 Micro-enterprises account for 24 percent of
employment and about 13 percent of GDP. Among these, firms with up to 4 employees account
for 57 percent of all firms in industry, 82 percent in commerce and 74 percent in services. In
addition, there are an estimated 14 million informal micro and small enterprises in Brazil.5
Figure A3.7 Brazil - Distribution of Enterprises and Employment by Size of Firms
En^terprises             Share of total employment    Contribution to GDP
l1(7%                                                           134
a 1%
237%
41.51
90.2%                   151%
Mcro lnoneli o sDIum aELarge o Mcro 1ISnmU  Medium a Large  * Micro ESmal S   Medium  Larg
.  ...   ...........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
Source: Sebrae (2002) based on IBGE data for 1994
3Puga, F. (1999). "Sistema Financeiro Brasileiro: Reestruturacio Recente, Comparac6es Internacionais e
Vulnerabilidade a Crise Cambial", BNDES, Texto para Discussao n.68. Constraints on entrepreneurship due to
scarcity of credit are also pointed out in Joao Pedro Wagner de Azevedo (2001) " Credit and Entrepreneurship in the
Slums of Rio de Janeiro" . Newcastle-upon-Tyne, U.K.
4 Microenterprises are defined as those with less than 19 employees. Small firms, which are those with less than 100
employees, make up another 8 percent of the SME sector.
5Departamento Intersindical de Estatisticas e Estudos Socioecon6micos (Dieese), 2002.
Annex 3 Page 8 of 19



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
16.   A second source of information on the degree to which enterprises in Brazil and other
countries rate financing as an operational and growth constraint suggests that specific constraints
such as high interest rates and collateral requirements may be more important in Brazil than the
absolute availability of credit, although that too is an issue. But Brazilian enterprises do not rate
the financing of investment as more of an operational and growth constraint than entrepreneurs
in other Latin American and upper-middle income countries. However, they rate high interest
rates and collateral requirements as greater obstacles than enterprises in comparator countries
(Table A3.6).
Table A3.6 Brazil and Other Countries - Financing Constraints for Enterprises
of which Argnuiia~i<~j~299  '37T,         :'Si~~U~2O
~Me~c~,i      ~         19'~  -3 7-.                  -! 3,         el_
i;>: , . ~~~~~~~~- -' ,' -_- _s E l
Chil- , , ~  . ,' Y.,  l24- .- 35 3'             ,                       -_50-  _ 1   __   1
,E,gaurhl^en     '      ,:, 2'.* ,               i                    26   ,:*- Erl-:,2  9   , '  '14f&9: j 
r;$b * .F t . \Il.  1.                                            Jd!6a.3l;wtP34 -  : -  i .:2iE3 J
.Upper middle income' -         4i,  3 A1j 'r L,71-7
17.    Separating firms on the basis of size reveals fairly similar patterns by size group. While
medium-sized firms seem to be most constrained in their financing, especialy in terms of access
to long-term loans, compared to both small and large firms, most of the differences across the
groups are not statistically significant. For firms of all sizes, high interest rates are the single
most important impediment.
Table A3.7 Brazil - Financing Constraints in Across Firms by Size
'B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'2
|'M'  '  ' "' _ E '' 
;L ~ ~ ~   ~~23         ~~!5~    ~. -2:64I*.,    ~27%'     ~~I2 
S6Ifis, je^s R23t~~s>    3.7l!        J.'_.-              .           ..     .
Access - Availability of Financial Servicesfor Small Depositors and Borrowers
18.   The supply of banking services to small depositors and small borrowers provides an
indirect indication of the extent to which poorer households and small entrepreneurs have access
to financial services. Looking at average loan and deposit sizes for banks of different ownership
Annex 3 Page 9 of 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
groups, findings suggest that private banks, both domestic and foreign, show larger average loan
sizes and larger average time deposits than public banks (Tables A3.8).6 Thus public banks
appear to be significant agents of delivery of financial services to small borrowers and
depositors.
Table A3.8 Brazil - Bank Loan and Deposit Size by Ownership (R$, Dec 2000)
A_ ag lons        -       ,.,    160,990X r  - 14,639' !   . 327.756         4
:A syrgdmnacuisze             . _>  -         --36I   ,      858-     fl 1,068'i  _1618'
_             .T                  X   7   T     .2__.__.s_.-1w-s_, o
Averagqsayingsaccoun size 1._ -_   ,0'___        230!i        246=_       . 907 I
Averagetiezont size -'-      .7.2il4 I        -  13,539 11'  74,8861 T  56,T81
19.   Examining loans and deposits by size category, data show that public banks lend a
larger share of their total loan portfolio to small borrowers than private and foreign banks (12.9
percent versus 5.3 percent), and tend to have somewhat higher proportions of their total client
base among small borrowers (68 percent versus 56 percent for private domestic and 64 percent
for private foreign banks). There are no significant differences in the size distribution of demand
and savings deposits, while public banks do have a greater share of total time deposits in small
time deposits. In terms of small depositors, the public banks'advantages are less clear. In terms
of the number of small demand or time accounts relative to the total number of time accounts,
banks of different ownershlip do not differ dramatically, although in terms of value of small time
deposits, the share of federal banks is higher - ie, private banks have smaller average balances in
these accounts than public banks. Thus it appears that private banks offer deposit taking services
to small clients, but more limited lending services (Table A3.9). And among the private banks,
analysis shows that the largest among these focus most on the small depositor and borrower.
Many of the small private banks seem to have a niche function, serving a small group of
relatively large clients.
Table A3.9 Brazil - Bank Loan and Deposit Size Structure by Ownership (Dec. 2000)
~~-f E~~~  YO_- 66  § Km  -C ii 1-  ;u-         .; -
-- -                                - =   -   ., -i -.  _      >--   - -l.t A
r Value of LoansR500OOO. Share mn taHSoan_value _  26 _ 
f: b ri'ofA   w'er-s- Wi-h I_as  50-00: -S hare-_in- to-t_ ar;  60=13 ol  56.
,   ~Noofdi accovuns cRi        iotaiibers -[ !0 E:  3_  F       83-1E-  _   4.2  774.91
Value of Time dep_sits <R$10 000: Share aintal va ue  =43.                i       1
No of Timeaccoiiiits <R$100 0i_otal_ime aaccounts, ;_] LJr _82 88  L 79.S  =   87
6Further data analyses are under way for finer categorizations of loan size, and also for a more recent time period,
which could affect the findings in this section. These will be available in the forthcoming study on Access to
Financial Services in Brazil (2002).
Annex 3 Page 10 of 19



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
RECENT INITIATIVES TO EXPAND ACCESS
20.   The government has begun taking a number of important steps to extend the frontier of
financial services towards the underserved population. These span a wide range of reforms;
more enforceable credit contracts, and enhanced debtor information through the expansion of
services offered by the Central Bank's Central do Risco are crucial in this respect. These efforts
have been documented elsewhere and thus the present document focuses principally on measures
so far less discussed in the Bank, which have been taken towards the expansion of micro and
small scale lending institutions, and the expansion of service points - such as post offices,
supermarkets, and lottery points - to make financial services available to population in remote
and poorer areas. It has also eased restrictions to widen the membership for cooperatives while,
at the same time, enhancing prudential oversight of cooperatives, via delegated supervision to
cooperative associations (which are directly supervised by the Central Bank). A selection of
these measures are detailed further below.
(i) New Regulations for Microfinance Expansion , the Communidade SolidAria
21.   There has been a dramatic improvement in the legal framework for microenterprises over
the last five years, which has been brought about by a multilateral dialogue between the
government and civil society, organized under the auspices of the Council of Community
Solidarity ("Conselho da Comunidade Soliddria"). The Council, which developed under the
patronage and effective leadership of the First Lady in the present Cardoso government regime,
was established in 1995 to promote citizen participation in political debate on social themes, and
to define priorities and social actions to fight poverty and social exclusion in Brazil. Micro-credit
has been a key theme in the Comunidade Soliddria's rounds of political debate ("Rodadas de
Interlocu,do Polftica"), first initiated in 1997-1998. These debates have led to the
implementation of several actions by the government and the National Monetary Council, with
important results for the development of micro-credit in Brazil.
22.   Changes in the legal framework which for the first time gave effective legitimacy to
microcredit in Brazil were introduced with Quinta Rodada de Interlocu,do Poiftica (1997-98),
devoted to the potential role of micro-credit in Brazil, which concluded that micro-credit could
play a strategic role in terms of employment and income distribution, but that its expansion
required a different treatment from traditional credit operations. It was recognized that the
operations of micro-credit institutions were restricted by several impediments, pertaining mostly
to the legal framework.
23.   A commission was then created with representatives of the Central Bank, BNDES and
the Ministry of Finance with the objective of presenting a proposal for changes in the regulation
of micro-credit institutions. Prior to 1999, microfinance could only be undertaken by a non-profit
organization (ONG, or Organiza(4o Ndo Governamental), and these were constrained by the one
percent per month ceiling on interest rates imposed by Brazil's usury law, which has been
meaningless in Brazil's high inflation periods, and is also limiting in the case of microfinance
loans, which tradtionally in most countries are often for periods of weeks or months, and at
higher interest rates than loans in the formal and large scale sectors. NGOs were also
constrained in terms of access to capital, to grants or credit lines from government or foreign
donors. The work of this commission led to major legal changes in 1999, with the introduction of
Annex 3 Page 11 of 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
new legal forms of entities with considerably more flexibility in terms of both funding and
lending, for the extension of microcredit. The two new institutional forms created were (i) the
OSCIPs (Organiza,do da Sociedade Civil de Interesse Publico) or Public Interest Civil
Societies, and (ii) SCMs (Sociedades de Credito ao Microempreendedor) or Microenterprise
Credit Societies.7 Importantly, both organizational forms were simultaneously exempted from
the restrictions of the Usury law.8
24.    The first of these organizational forms, the OSCIPs, can have .a range of objectives,
which are not limited to microfinance; OSCIPs exist in many fields such as science, education,
research, etc. Like NGOs, they are deemed to be not-for-profit organizations. Importantly,
OSCIPs can 'sign Cooperation Agreements with the public sector to implement activities and
projects of public interest', which implies that they could have access to public sector funds, in
addition to donor funds and owner/sponsor funds. However, OSCIPs are not able to access
funds from financial institutions or to mobilize deposits from the public. OSCIPs are subject to
some reporting requirements to the Ministry of Justice, but do not have any prudential
regulations such as minimum capital requirements, which may apply to financial institutions.
25.    The second institutional form created, the SCM, is much closer to a microcredit society,
as they exist in many other countries.9 SCMs are more formal and are specialised finanicial
entities regulated by the Central Bank of Brazil. They are deemed to be for-profit entities. In
terms of access to support or finance, SCMs can take loans or lines of credit from foreign or
domestic financial institutions, and in February 2001 their access to funding was further
widened, together with permission to use instruments such as fiduciary alienation for extending
credit.'0 However, issuing debt or mobilizing deposits remain restricted. Subsequent regulations
issued in July 2001 specified operational limits on caital, leverage and risk; SCMs are required to
comply with minimum start-up capital, ongoing capital adequacy and limits on risk
concentration. The regulations issued in July 2001 also permit SCMs, like banks, to operate
through Microcredit Service Points (Posto de Atendimento de Microcr6dito), and require them to
submit information on their lending operations to the Central Bank's credit risk center - the
Central de Risco de Credito - which in principle could permit them in the future to obtain greatly
enhanced credit information on prospective clients. l
7 Law 9790 of March 23, 1999, which came to be popularly known as the New Law of the Tertiary Sector,
established the OSCIP. Decree No 3100 of June 30, 1999 provided details on its authorization, functioning and
supervision. Reporting requirements are minimal, but for lines of credit through public entities, external audits are
required. For details see especially 'OSCIP - Organizacdo du Sociedade Civil de Interesse Publico - A Lei 9790/99
como Alternativa para o Terceiro Setor. Comunidade Solidaria. Brasilia, July 2001.
8 Medida Provis6ria 1914-4 of June 28, 1999 excluded both OSCIPs and SCMs from the Usury law.
9 Central Bank Resolution 2627 of August 2, 1999 established the SCM. Guidelines for its authorization and
functioning were issued rapidly after (Central Bank circular 2915 of August 5, 1999 ) and further circulars
established reporting requirements to the Central Bank as well as public disclosure requirements for financial
statements (Circular No. 2964 of February 3, 2000) and a standardized chart of accounts in COSIF (Carta-Circular
No. 2898 of the Central Bank of February29, 2000).
10 Law 10194 of February 2001 extended funding sources to include the SEBRAE, and also, companies registered
with the CVM, and investment funds. OSCIPs were permitted to own SCMs.
Resolution 2874 of the National Monetary Council of July 26, 2001.
Annex 3 Page 12 of 19



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
26.   These new institutional forms are clearly a major step forward for microcredit in Brazil,
although the paucity of SCMs to date suggests that there is capacity for further adjustment and
facilitation. Some existing NGOs which are microfinance institutions in practice are considering
modifying their legal framework in order to benefit from the ability to tap external sources of
finance, including in some cases splitting up existing organizations into two entities, an NGO
rendering non-financial services (training and consulting) and an SCM for all financial
operations. This would expand the sources of funding these entities have access to, thereby
removing constraints to their expansion in recent years. Some factoring companies are also
considering or undergoing conversion to SCMs. By October 2001, around six SCMs had been
established and another half dozen applications were pending approval.
27.   The recent modifications in 2001 of the regulations for SCMs were the outcome of
further debate on the expansion of micro-credit in Brazil, which resumed intensively in the latest
Round of the Comunidade Soliddria for the years 2001-2002. In March 2001 four working
groups were established, to discuss specific problem areas in micro-credit - the legal framework,
information and institutional support, training, and performance evaluations. The working group
on the Legal Framework finalized its proposals in May 2001, and modifications to the
regulations on SCMs were introduced in July 2001 were based on these preliminary findings. In
October 2001, all the working groups on microfinance debated their results with a cross section
of government and civil society interests in microfinance. 12
28.   Changes implemented to date have focused largely on measures which would be easy to
implement without the need for Congressional approval - that is, short of new laws. Further
changes are now being debated, which would however require legal amendments. These
include, permitting deposit taking through savings mobilization and a simplified tax framework.
Draft laws have already been prepared regarding some of these points, and sub-working groups
have been established to discuss them further.
(ii) Correspondent Banking - the Postal System and Other Networks
29.   Since March 2000, banks have been authorized to establish 'correspondent banking'
agreements with other (non-financial) legal entities such as convenience shops, supermarket
chains, etc, and most recently, post offices; for the provision of basic financial transactions to a
wider public (payment transactions, deposits). Other transactions may be allowed, but require a
specific authorization from the Central Bank. Many banks have now begun to take advantage of
this new legislation to penetrate underserved areas at a lower cost.'3 The cost advantages of the
correspondent system are huge in Brazil, where the fixed costs of establishing a bank branch are
raised disproportionally by a series of security regulations, labor laws, restrictive hours, etc.
30.   One of the most significant events to follow this regulation was the creation of a national
chain of financial service correspondent outposts through links with the postal system, through
12 Summarized in a document entitled "The Expansion of Micro-credit in Brazil" ("A Expansdo do Microcr6dito no
Brasil"). The World Bank participated through invitation at the October microcredit summit of the Comunidade
Solidaria, as part of the AAA task on Access to Financial Services.
13 Resolution of the National Monetary Council, No 2707 of March 30, 2000.
Annex 3 Page 13 of 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
the auction by the government, in August 2001 of the postal franchise. It was awarded to Brazil's
largest private bank, Bradesco, for a price of R$201 millions (US$81 million), which won the
exclusive right to distribute financial services through the 5,532 agencies of the Brazilian post
office, ECT (Empresa Brasileira de Correios e Telhgrafos). The contract has a maturity of five
years, which begins when each post office agency will be connected to Bradesco. All agencies
are expected to be operational by 2003. The concession will therefore last at least un.til 2008. It
can be renewed without a fresh bidding process. By the end of 2001, 1000 post office agencies
were operational. In 2002, 1,600 additional agencies will be connected and the rest are expected
to be connected in 2003. Bradesco has undertaken to connect agencies located in municipalities
without banking service on a priority basis.'4 ECT has a greater relative presence in the poor
Northeast area of Brazil than the banks. Bradesco will be allowed to distribute basic financial
services through the ECT such as payment and account transaction services, in exclusivity. The
post office is likely to be present in the 1680 municipalities which lack formal financial services.
Table A3.10 Geographic Coverage of the Banking System and the Postal Network
___              __                                     7l2
Norh            563    L  34   j   416    L      l                 _12.9
SouLheast  _  _ 9,108 j'  546  ]L 1746    r 39         5057     I _
| Cenler West _ j  1,208   i2 _    485   13 99-   L   3,    m1       116 _
Noribe.sm  _  1  2,377  1_4.3 J    1677 ', 31.6 1       701_         47
South    .-                      ,_i5  205 i  975 I I  184  43-58   -25
Tol__        1_6,67 !   1000,   5,299* !  1000     _               16    7
31.   Bradesco hopes to gain some 3.5 million new current account holders in two years from
the post office client base. These clients would bring Bradesco's current client base of 11.8
million current account holders to 15.2 million. Through the post office, Bradesco intends to
target low income individuals, especially in remote areas, which otherwise could not be targeted
profitably even using ATMs. Bradesco may also transfer some of its existing clientele to the post
office in order to reduce the cost of serving them. The current agreement covers the following
services: demand deposits, savings deposits, check cashing, bill payment, remittance operations
and collections. Credit services could be offered in a second stage. Bradesco will start working
with about 1,000 post office agencies established in the Northeast in order to fulfill its
contractual obligation to start with the poorest regions of Brazil. On Friday April 5 2002,
Bradesco opened its first twenty seven Postal Bank branches, with one for every state in Brazil,
including the Federal District. According to its most recent time table, another 3,000 branches
14 There are an estimated 1,680 municipalities without formal financial services in Brazil and an estimated 25
percent of the total population who do not or are not able to use bank services. Of these, about 4 million live in
municipalities without a bank, but with a post office.
Annex 3 Page 14 of 19



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
will be opened by the end of 2002, with the first 1,000 opened by June 30, 2002 and the rest by
year end.
32.   Caixa, the giant public sector bank, has a monopoly franchise on the network of about
8,000 loto game (Casa Loterica) outlets spread out across the country. In addition, Caixa is
establishing new relationships with 2,400 correspondents, with the objective of being present in
all 2,000 municipalities in which it is currently absent. As a result, by June 2002, Caixa should
be present in all municipalities of Brazil with at least one correspondent banker offering payment
and deposit services. Payment transactions worth R$65 million are made each year through
Caixa's loto game outlets, of which 55 are worth less than R$40 each (US$16).
33.   With the ECT network of Bradesco, and Caixa's loto game (Casa Lotefica) outlet
franchise, it is aimed that all municipalities in Brazil will have access to at least one bank, and
sometimes two, for basic financial transactions (payment, and account deposits and transfers),
when these two networks are fully operational. Both institutions plan to extend the services
offered by these networks to opening of accounts and credit granting, but several identification
and security issues still need to be solved.
34.   Other large banks in Brazil are also increasingly establishing associations with local
distributors to reach out to the masses. Unibanco for instance has acquired a specialty finance
company Fininvest, and has signed agreements with the supermarket chains Magazine Luisa and
Globex's Ponto Frio by which Fininvest employees can distribute consumer loans to customers
in the stores. Through these three outlets, Unibanco reaches some seven million people of the
lower middle and low income groups, mostly in the South and Southeast of Brazil.
(iii) Enhanced SmalU Savings Facilities - Tesouro Direto
35.   A significant development in the expansion of services for savers is the recent decision of
the government to allow individual small savers to purchase government bonds, through the
intemet, under its new Treasury Direct program. The initiative is pioneering in Latin America,
although well known in countries such as Spain and in the United States, where ten percent of
government debt is in the hands of small investors. Closely modeled upon the program of the
same name in the USA, and widely used in a number of OECD countries, such retail debt sales
programs have the double advantage of allowing a safe savings vehicle for small savers,
remunerated at market rates, while at the same time, allowing the government more efficient
mechanisms for tapping local debt markets.15 Issues began on January 7, 2002, and are available
24 hours a day, 7 days a week, cleared through the Companhia Brasileira de LiquidaVdo e de
Cust6dia - CBLC. Prior to this, only banks, bond dealers and other financial institutions
registered in the Sistema Especial de Liquidacdo e Cust6dia, (SELIC) with a minimum amount
of R$50,000 could purchase government bonds.
15 The Brazilian Treasury (Tesouro Nacional), http://www.tesouro.fazenda.gov.br/tesouro_nacional on December
12th, 2001 issued Ordinance n° 554, which approved the regulation of the public offering of bonds to individuals via
the internet and on offers began on January 7.
Annex 3 Page 15 of 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
36.   At present, three types of bonds are on offer:
* Letra do Tesouro Nacional (LTN) - Fixed interest rate discount bonds;
* Letra Financeira do Tesouro (LFT) - Variable interest rate discount bonds linked to the
Selic (interbank) interest rate; and the
* Nota do Tesouro Nacional - sgrie C (NTN-C) - Variable rate indexed bonds, indexed to
the IGP-M inflation index, plus a fixed markup. Interest is payed each semester.
37.   The bonds offered in retail are the same as those offered to the financial institutions
which participate in the Treasury's traditional auctions. All bond types on offer have been sought
by the public, although the LTN (Letra do Tesouro Nacional) is clearly the most popular.
Table A3.11 Brazil - 'Treasu  Direct' Sales b Bond Tye
_    E~~~~~~~K~_  _
__~~p~8__Jv7
38.   These schemes permit small investors with as little as R$200, or less than US$100, to
invest in a low risk, high return investment with relatively high liquidity. By investing via the
internet, costs involved are lower. The maximum amount allowed is R$200,000 per month. The
government's objective of popularizing access appears to being met with success. So far, more
than 31 percent of investors involved have invested less than R$1,000, and almost two thirds of
all investors have invested sums of below R$5,000 (Table A3.12).
Table A3.12: Brazil Treasurv Direct Distribution of Investors by Investment Size
iVP      _,-k , Z X E_  E z,
R$9J$500000~   ~s o7 ia ;             
R50lito'R$5O OO*.- 
_56
39.   From its inauguration until March 3, 2002, almost R$13 million worth have been sold in
1,628 operations, resulting in an average operation of R$7,964. Today, there are 65 financial
institutions authorized to act as custodial agents for Treasury Direct, consisting of large retail
banks, bond dealers and real estate brokers and distributors. Through these institutions, 3,000
individuals have already registered, and of those registered, 1,541 have already made purchases.
Annex 3 Page 16 of 19



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
Investors are registered in all parts of Brazil and those who have already acquired bonds cover
155 cities in 24 states.
40.   The CBLC charges a fixed fee of 0.03% per operation, or the purchase price, and a
variable fee of 0.40% per year on the value of the bonds in custody. The custodial agent also
charges a service fee, which varies from agent to agent The government plans to offer other
types of bonds to the public at a later date.
(iv) Loans for Small Entrepreneurs - The Sebrae Program
41.   SEBRAE ("Servi,o Brasileiro de Apoio as Micro e Pequenas Empresas" -Brazilian
Services to Support Micro and Small Enterprises-) is a government agency which was originally
set up to promote the development of microenterprises, through technical assistance programs to
promote new micro and small enterprises and strengthen existing ones.'6 SEBRAE has one office
in each of Brazil's 27 states, with a total staff of 4,500 persons and more than 500 points of
contact. The local offices have a large degree of autonomy, under the coordination of a central
unit in Brasilia which establishes norms and strategies for the group. SEBRAE's budget comes
from a 0.3 precent contribution raised on companies' payroll. In 1999, it's budget totaled
US$450 million.
42.   SEBRAE's support to microfinance began with its Loan Guarantee Fund for Micro and
Small Enterprises; FAMPE (Fundo de Aval as Microempresas e Empresas de Pequeno Porte),
available however only for loans issued by some public banks with which SEBRAE has
negotiated specific agreements (Banco do Brasil, Caixa Econ8mica Federal, Banco do Nordeste,
Banco da Amaz6nia and Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Minas Gerais). The guarantee
is provided for loans financing long term investments. Working capital loans are accepted only
if they complement a long term financing loan and represent less than 50 percent of the total.
43.   In July 1999, in parallel to the government's efforts to launch new institutional forms for
microcredit, SEBRAE defined a new strategic plan focused on programs aimed at eliminating
restrictions to access to credit by micro and small enterprises. Its Venture Capital Program,
(Programa de Capital de Risco -PCR) launched shortly after, was focused essentially on enabling
the implementation of Law 10194 of February 2001, which permitted expanded access to
funding for OSCIPs and SCMs.17 It allows SEBRAE to participate in venture capital funds
investing in emerging micro and small companies with a high growth potential, particularly those
with a technological basis or a potential to export. SEBRAE can only take minority stakes (10
percent and 33.3 percent) and must accompany such participation with technical and institutional
advice. This program is highly complementary to SEBRAE's existing support to incubators.
44.   Shortly after, in October 2001, as part of the events surrounding the summit of the
Communidade Solidaria, SEBRAE expanded its services to include special programs of credit
for microenterprises. Its new program aims specifically at OSCIPs (Organiza,do da Sociedade
Civil de Interesse Publico), but also encompasses SCMs as needed. The new scheme plans to
16 SEBRAE was established by law (Laws 8029 and 8154) in 1990.
17 See footnote 10 above.
Annex 3 Page 17 of 19



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
provide both technical asistance and credit to new and very small microfinance institutions that
do not qualify for BNDES assistance - thus permitting SEBRAE for the first time to extend
credit. The project plans to reach 30 projects nationwide, initially, both new and existing, across
300 municipalities with low HDI (Human Development Indicators - or IDH, indice de
Desenvolvimento Humano) indices. Loans will be available for up to R$300,000 for 8 years with
a 3 year grace period. Interest rates on SEBRAE lines of credit to MFIs are based on the TJLP
with no spread. According to SEBRAE's data, 13 million Brazilians are excluded from access to
any form of credit, and the new program is destined for this target group.
CHALLENGES FOR THE FUTURE
45.   As the preceding sections show, although Brazil's performance in terms of financial
access at present is fairly average, Brazil is aware of the importance of further increasing access,
in terms of its impact on employment and poverty, and in terms of expanding geographic access.
A number of challenges face Brazil in this context, as demonstrated in the preceding sections.
Key issues which emerge from the preceding discussion are outlined briefly below. More
detailed analysis and evaluation of options will be undertaken in a separate analytic study.'8
Improving the Regional Distribution of Services
46.   As the peceding sections clearly show, the spatial distribution of financial services is
highly unevenly distributed and in general the poorer regions and regions in the North and
Northeast have more limited services. This is even evident in the new technologies, such as
ATMs. However, adjusting for differences in levels of economic activities, the differences are
not as clear. Government efforts to extend services to these areas, for example through the recent
postal service franchise, are commended, but further efforts could be made to identify specific
pockets, in terms of either types of service, or specific municipalities, where service could be
improved.
Increasing Services Offered by Private and Foreign Banks
47.   A second challenge for Brazil will be to increase the role of private and foreign financial
institutions in offering services to small clients and in remote areas. As demonstrated above,
Brazil has largely relied on federal financial institutions so far, for delivering services to more
vulnerable segments - in remote regions, specific subsectors such as agriculture, and to smaller
and thus more likely poorer enterprises or individuals. There are significant differences in the
loan portfolio composition across federal, state, private domestic, and foreign banks. Enticing
private and foreign banks into these areas could need a realignment of incentives and policies
towards both public and private institutions, to ensure improvement of access on a cost-effective
basis.
18 See footnote I above. A study on Access to Financial Services in Brazil being undertaken as Bank AAA, in
collaboration with the Central Bank of Brazil (forthcoming, 2002).
Annex 3 Page 18 of 19



Annex 3: Access to Financial Services
Integrating New Technologies in the Delivery of Financial Services
48.   Developments in information  collection, storage processing  and transmission
technologies (1T technologies) have strongly influenced and continue to influence all aspects of
financial sector activity. Technology potentially influences lower banks' costs by substituting
computers for paper based and labor-intensive methods of accounting for customer deposits,
withdrawals and other transactions and for many internal operations. In addition, they allow
financial institutions to provide services at lower costs through alternative delivery channels for
example through automated teller machines (ATMs), telephone banking and PC banking,
enabling institutions to reach a wider geographic base. Additionally, for small loans, financial
institutions can increase efficiency by devices such as credit scoring models, which use
automated statistical methods to assess default risk of a credit applicant. This reduces costs on
the credit underwriting side since it reduces the role of human evaluation and allows for financial
institutions to underwrite credits of smaller sizes. Authorities could explore impediments to the
development of remote delivery in Brazil which could be due to factors such as the
telecommunications infrastructure or high acquisition costs.
Further Expanding NonBank and Microfinance Services
49.   Finally, as discussed, greater attention can be paid to the expansion of financial
institutions other than banks, including non-banks and microfinance institutions. Brazil's
microfinance institutions operated in a very restrictive policy environment until 1999, and
although several measures have since been initiated to permit the expansion of such institutions,
the limited number of new institutions so far suggest that the impediments to their development
have yet to be fully explored. In this context, many useful proposals have been put up by the
working groups established under the Comunidade Solid4ria, which have been based on
exchanges and discussions with a wide spectrum of civil society. Further proposals suggested
under these working groups would merit attention.
Annex 3 Page 19 of 19



Annex 4: Payments System Reform - Recent Developments
ANNEx 4: PAYMENTS SYSTEM REFORM - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
THE POSTPONEMENT OF THE LAUNCH OF THE REFORM
1.  In September 2001 the Central Bank of Brazil (Banco Central do Brasil) announced that
the final launch of the new Brazilian large value payments system would be postponed from
October, 2001 to April 22, 2002.
2.   Several reasons were given to justify this decision: (i) tests carried out by the Central Bank
had shown that only three out of the ten largest commercial banks were fully prepared to operate
the new systems (another four were found partially ready, and the last three were even less
prepared); (ii) the several clearinghouses that will integrate the new system were also found
unprepared - only two out of the six active clearinghouses claimed to be ready, another two had
asked for a postponement of one month and the other two had indicated that they would be ready
in March 2002; (iii) the Central Bank was also in a preliminary stage of development of its
applications, due to the delay of hardware for the new payments system, including both the
delivery of the optical fiber system and the installation of the new computer system.
3.   The new timetable is defined in Circular 3060 of the Central Bank, dated September 20,
2001. It has been discussed with and agreed upon by the FEBRABAN (association of banks)
and the Central Bank, and should therefore be realistic. According to the Circular, the new RTGS
(real time gross settlement) system will start operating on February 13, 2002 for operations with
the National Treasury. On April 24, 2002 the RTGS System (Sistema de Transferencia de
Reservas, STR) will be formally launched, even though it will still have transitional features. In
particular, between April 22 and May 17, member banks will be allowed to maintain negative
balances on their accounts during the operating day, provided they do not exceed 100 percent of
their liquid equity (Patrim6nio L(quido Ajustado, PLA), and between May 20 and June 21
overdrafts will not be allowed to exceed 50 percent of the PLA. Finally, on June 24, 2001,
member banks will not be able to run negative balances on their reserve accounts at the Central
Bank and the STR system will assume its final configurations as per its original design.
4.   Circular 3060 also sets.up a timetable for the testing exercise: infrastructure tests will last
until 09-26-2001; system tests until 03-25-2002; capacity tests until 03-27-2002; daily operations
tests until 04-16-2002, and the test of the launch day until 04-17-2002. Finally the Circular
defines the responsibilities and modalities of test monitoring within the Central Bank.'
COMPLETION OF THE REGULATORY / SUPERVISORY FRAMEWORK FOR TBE PAYMENTS SYSTEM
5.   As described in documentation for the first loan,2 the legal framework for the payments
system in Brazil has been established by Law 10214 of March 27, 2001, which converted into
' The Circular also revokes Circular 3032 of May 10, 2001, which contained the previous timetable.
2 See World Bank Report No. P7448-BR; April 26, 2001, on the First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustmnent
Loan (MOP-PFSECAL-1), Annex 7
Annex 4 Page 1 of 4



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
law several previous Provisional Laws (the first, No. 2008, was issued in December 1999). Law
10214, among other things, (i) defines the payments system and the Central Bank's oversight
responsibility for the payments system over it; (ii) sets up responsibilities and rights for
clearinghouses requiring them to assume in total the counter-party risk vis-a-vis their participants
and the Central Bank, and to protect them against claims on collateral and payment orders
already accepted by the system stemming from bankruptcy procedures; and (iii) provides legal
validation to multilateral netting and excludes explicitly the impact on the payments system of
"zero hour" or similar rules.
6.   Details of the legal framework have been completed by the issue of specific regulations by
the National Monetary Council. In particular, Resolution 2882 of August 30, 2001 defines the
payments system objectives of the Banco Central do Brasil (Article. 1), as efficiency, safety,
integrity, and reliability. It also defines the scope of the application of the Central Bank's rules
and interventions (Article 3), namely all clearinghouses and operators of systems which handle
inter-bank transfers; and settle among at least three direct participants. The core of the
Resolution is the specification of nine general rules which payments system operators must
comply with, that closely resemble the internationally accepted CPSS (Core Principles for
Systemically Important Payments System) (Article 3). Furthermore, according to the Resolution,
the Central Bank will conduct oversight on a continuous basis over the payments system and as
such will (i) regulate operators' activities; (ii) authorize the functioning of the systems; and (iii)
apply sanctions, in the case of non-compliance with the rules. The Resolution also specifies that
specific provisions can be applied by the Central Bank to those systems that are considered
systemically important and clarifies the role of the securities regulator (CVM) and its framework
of cooperation with the Central Bank. Finally, it is indicated that the Central Bank will only
operate payment systems which settle on a gross basis in real time.
7.   Circular 3057 of August 31, 2001, following up on Resolution 2882, approves in detail the
functioning of clearinghouses and other payment system operators and defines several features
which these entities should have in terms of capital requirements, transparency, risk control
measures, operational requirements, etc. All these elements had to be submitted to the Central
Bank by October 1, 2001 for their revision and approval. The Annex to the Circular also defines
a formula to determine whether a payments system is indeed systemically important, based on
the average value of the largest transaction and/or the aggregate value, both over a time span.
8.   The regulatory and supervisory framework for the payments system in Brazil appears at
the moment to be comprehensive and sound. It is worth noting that the department in charge of
the reform within the Central Bank, DEBAN, has expanded its name to the Department of
Banking Operations and Payment Systems, as part of the actions taken to ensure an adequate
organizational framework to manage both the RTGS system and the oversight of clearinghouses
and other system operators.
THE LAUNCH OF THE PRIVATE INTERBANK CLEARINGHOUSE
9.  It appears that a final decision has been made by the banks to launch a private
clearinghouse. The clearinghouse, Camara Interbancdria de Pagamentos, will operate a system
based on net settlement at the end of the day. Further information will need to be acquired on the
timetable and detailed characteristics of this project.
Annex 4 Page 2 of 4



Annex 4: Payments System Reform - Recent Developments
ACTIONS TO REDUCE RISKS IN THE CHECK CLEARINGHOUSE
10. The Central Bank is taking proactive measures to eliminate the risks inherent in the check
clearinghouse by drastically reducing the amount of large value items (checks and DOCs). In
particular, a threshold of R$5,000 (approximately US$2,000) Clearinghouse Risk has been
identified through simulations. According to analyses undertaken by the Central Bank on risk,
for the period February-August 2001, based on clearinghouse daily average transactions they
comprised:
Table A4.1 Thresholds of Clearing House Risk Identified by Central Bank Simulations
(February to August 2001)
'a. - Checks ivitba va ue of less thai R$5,00. -  9.07i million ,  _ 9
,b. 'Checs with a?vau,eofmore thanR$5,000  91  . ___ _  ',  _f _  1.3
'.  DOCs With a val,ueof less thanR$5,000  -  2_  7,20_j,  ._  , , '
_  bC K_P966 7_7 1                                              85.2 ¾8
?@._ ,',DOCs_with a value ofmc than'R$5,O00  -  - 49  , L         14.8
! 1:Che1 swithavalupeoflesshan R5,000   'R$1.   8billion,.       30 .
,-f. _, Checks_with a,aue of more than R$5,,00 _  _  R$4.2 billior _  __ 
, g. ,~ D,OCs withavaueo ofless than,R$5,000  *ii R$0.2 billion  .  3.   .
,h. DpOCs with a~value ofmrore than'R$5,000  ',R$6'billion  ''  _  . 97 __,_ ,_ '
11. To reduce these risks the Central Bank will put in place a mechanism of unremunerated
collateral pre-funding for all checks and DOCs with a value of more than R$5,000 based on a
moving average of the previous two weeks' figures. This should provide a strong disincentive
towards the use of large value items based on debit transfers and, according to the estimates of
the Central Bank, should reduce the amount of large value checks by 80 percent and the amount
of large value DOCs by 97 percent in the first eight months following the RTGS system's
launch. According to the information available, the Circular to regulate these mechanisms is still
under discussion.
TRANSPARENCY OF BANKiNG OPERATIONS3
12. On July 26, 2001, the National Monetary Council enacted Resolution 2878, which
establishes new procedures to be observed by the Brazilian Financial System with regard to the
settlement of financial transactions and services provided to customers and the public in general.
The Resolution aims at improving the relationship between market participants by fostering
additional transparency, discipline, competition and reliability on the part of financial
institutions. In addition, the Resolution consolidates all previous related rules. The main
changes are:
3 Taken from Focus, Banco Central do Brasil, August 2, 2001.
Annex 4 Page 3 of 4



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
* Transparency in the relation between banks and their clients: the new regulation obliges
financial institutions to ensure that clients are fully aware of all contractual clauses,
which, in addition, must also include responsibilities and penalties of both parts, in order
to protect the counterparts against undesirable practices.
* Banks are not allowed to transfer funds of their clients' accounts without previous
consultation.
*  No banking services or operations can be settled if they are tied or conditional to any
other operations or services.
* It is forbidden to release misleading or abusive publicity or information.
* Interest charges must be proportionally reduced in case of anticipated settlement.
* It is forbidden to discriminate against people who are not customers of the bank and to
embarrass customers with debt in arrears.
* Handicapped and senior people have the right to priority attendance.
* Financial institutions cannot deny standard attendance in their branches.
* Customers have the right to withdraw money without postponement if the operation is
carried out in the branch where they maintain their account.
13. International experience shows that such regulations provide strong benefits to the efficient
development of the country's payments system.
OTBER RELATED DEVELOPMENTS
Securities managed by CETIP
14. Circular 3059 of September 20, 2001 provides that all securities managed by CETIP
(Center for the Custody and Financial Liquidation of Private Issues) will have to be settled on the
same day of their maturity or of the maturity of their financial rights (dividends, interests, etc.).
Handling of suspect banknotes
15. A new system for handling suspect banknotes has been in place since June, 2001. The
system allows banks to manage these operations more efficiently with the Central Bank and to be
informed in real time on the status of the investigations. This application will be included in the
STR system, when launched.
Circulars under consultation
16. Some Circulars relating to payments system's issues are under consultation. Among them
a circular to provide access to reserve accounts, at the Central Bank, to investment banks and
similar financial institutions, and a circular to redefine the rediscount procedures.
Annex 4 Page 4 of 4



Annex S - Status of Bank Group Operations
ANNEx 5: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Brazil Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants) As Of Date 05/14/2002
Closed Projects 217
IBRDI1DA *
Total Disbursed (Active)  2,749.47
of which has been repaid  416.28
Total Disbursed (Closed)  21,999.55
of which has been repaid  19,089.62
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)  24,749.02
of which has been repaid  19,505 90
Total Undisbursed (Active)  2,846.26
Total Undisbursed (Closed)  11.19
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)  2,857.46
ME4?r '' 9 f~~~W.--k y ORl>
P00659 _I(BFR)SP TSP    . _Z  , IS_1 JL 5] rA99- ,    J  Sv_L_ _ j LW.,JL_25L 2 _
P0438,7,3_ FATECHDR PEV.....=!17,                                        _% r_  X_ -!3S 327k. 2i0
P006562  B,A,IA MUN.DV  57  *. |_s FS , 1997 _Ll oo I      __              _1 7 ri _:1 r=
PQ|3s72B  BAHIAWTR RESOURC,ES ,,_ __'I s.IC s_J A 9iuz dL __ i t.L._JLZ__3L: _  :. 'L_Z_25 9  2ks5 x'.,5
Poo6s64.. BENoHMTSIK  V77                          , ZS.R12'95  ** . 99 L.~. t.  m7 lLr_ fd L
P037828. BR(PR)R.P-OYERT-Yt  ; - I_' 'S .cau s1996  W   1isL_:. 'L h1 E .  84b 6L~ s rJ673
possi2s .' BR ~AER FIRE PREVENTION (ALFi s - F,s . . 1999 . 1 _lr. .I  3 -   .f'L i _._ .8.9 F3, . 9  -_ 89
Pof0 ' BR ENERGY EFFCIENCY (GEF)  -  I s ..l 7 il2000 _  LiP  r ½.........,N-15 _ ' 11S,, 3.0,. _
P073294 iLBRFwcai&FAiMwntY& .   ,Zs7i01oi   I 3r - 7. S.. _ir? 72) SQiC
P0O47 _ BR L-ND MGt 3(lSA,OAULO8,SJ HS K s:. rJ_iI9,3a IJ 55 F -~ ,__;1  , Lf  _7si _ _ '618 3'- - - 2-
P057910_ .H1BRPeENSION REFORMGIL:- I ISI S, I, 1998,  _ .6 ' _ILrI..;L-__ L_ __3fl1 _3-1L..,0 4
lZB77 sflAJNTKCATARLOBKNAtURAJ .1YTf  7',t 2002  .t 62.8~ r 'N     22 8 ~j
P _ -. JHA RESOURC.& PEROVU R-  S .     L 5 J 19  2-T          5J.2   4   65L  .31
P35411,  I BRJ£NROJPL(S P/PRFEDj) !SJ!19 2 - 1r-LJa[5 _4 93L.
P065420 .. BRI- AIDS.& STO Contro I- ..  IS _S -I 199 !65F  L   iJ[  409, 394
*p437   IB- IlrAELRELE        ,S  !         ,,19  WK-Ju    isI       61 9  61 9r
P037   IVIGISUtS              S.   S    1999,_ '.v Lu , l _ - 
P050763. .BR Funrdria2_ . -.  S    lS L 1999wL2Z03   1 -I -1 r42-5       275-
P-6    BR EHEALTH SECTORYREFORM  '' i.S  77Tlh.
--- - --       ,                    1        0 L _       L _ S   S 
,Possis6 _ONR ,EANGRABASICCOU RC  S_L.s 1 1 99 J L_0j =              3    37
FO57655 IL                       rrrt:rm gPRjJ1[ y HEALTH EKIENSION  I  .l  jf  X   Th - lI11 
P04835,.. JBRAzILCENBANKTW..  ,JC'$DS .W99tJ.: L_.20L C31f ._6            o '10 =
PO5, CEARAWIA,TERYP,ILOTJSIL4j _.rj~$-j5j7~      I    I S_     _9. lef _P_E.JiEir_  J'_2.2  i22L  1 - 1.
PO64- I !CEARA WTR M~GT (P,ROGE!8  IS1S1|20  t_36      1- S II)  . ,  1234kL__ui. _, Si~
gR  4S      RISED)  WILJ C                                      LI 
W -DI' " MSC-   -SA LiN --8-  le                 F -!!|195, ,101 |L - 
74. _   '_ .     _'I____.J U%  IS ,,_I .S  1, 2000 -,_r          619, 
-  CEX CUrbaKD~~~viioiiifie7ft&WabeF' -J-ri  I.C ~" r'1     i-.r 
P0320 6 ENRYEFCINY4                          r-3m         A i       I27 .1041
PE                      S    SENLE6ROBRAS)L.JC  -  -  L      . *,  °t'
s2, ESP ,SA ,NT.O WATER__ :- IS  I S  i 1994 - L 154 ,J _. ._  54L    119,659_   62
P6532. PFEDHWY0DECENTR = ,,_. JBs 1 u   1e9fli'00b_     7 V_ se_1Lase,E         56 3
PO038895..<,FE0Wj,RMGt~~,. --         .. _- 1  j1,8_CI__h  ^__JL    Z!LfS9
PI0FO220  E            T   ,_                 ,, -  .  #   |   wL -,   ,  02  l ' 1-
P00621W 'GEFBRNArLmODOERISIii  _1S  ,  r   5,_jM. 996, ,Lf_:ILJ3,_J1L- m-=3 ~----i~
Annex 5 Page 1 of 2



_~~~1    2  1-  w. m  q  W c  W    2    V ' S   V U2f:tl
N mm c       QIOQ      <, IN>~~~m cl
- c  m- rn  -L  CD  r4  N'  Go mq  r.2  -sr co . UD)a  r r, CC  -C   srj  -. C  esrD  r -le  .-V   IT L   J; -  ,sr. r-c
A 5 n  r4-  N                _ ,'D
.       E @'_ _1~~~~W            _  t _. >t .  D l ; ,   , W  'CD  '-  i   V,
.1  '4 2;'  -    m g' a l g D  Lo rl, o "  '
E    ,   , 1 1 2 '  , .  a; ' ' -i  ; I _ .  ' x~~~~~~~t  M. 1;   _ 7 _! ,,, -r -1i  ;_ t_i  ;t-
Jt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t
rLi                  wflJ - *       r--  -        [- ,
Ln -;i ,in 10             0 .  6-s  ,  6t W ^ t86 t  tin  e  2X1 4
H      i   2 ' '= .r! t S~~L CD  &g E  8 ° o Fql A  '-r1 is oy  '9 h1w  '=t. 
ff):           ')~~~~~~~I  [  -         j  
,~~j r,-  U,  I  I ~~~~~~~ 1~~o  5~~jrs'~~~'~~'  ~~  *1C
Cyt          UlOD   ODf,F*CM'                   & g.i'i *o .A.J ID
CY   'F.  F  72.A-                     -N 1  :,
~~  ~ ~     A             C~~~'  -,~~~  r                         0'
H                  L         J      IA~rO        i1
J      U)  U), U)  w  U), :0~~  U) 'ri) x  a pw   ZN  jiuj u) '(cja-
tNUJo~~~~~~~~~oo  Ca.~          o a
Ci                    IC ;C wl              Z           1
*'~~~~~'   ~~~'r   'I  V              II K.1.
k  *~~~~~t12~~~~~~~.-10.-110t0,      r'~~~~~~~~~ P . ,  t'
-                           s-we cv cm      ---'fin so1o 0 cnwj-co1c'ibo  - ai
F'L    Z"  *'-  
ci  O.    EL   a       Er                   qp  -, I~~



Annex 6 - Status of IFC Operations
ANNEX 6: STATEMENT OF IFC's HELD AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
(As of 1/31/2002 / In US$ million)
1', 3lrj-:   (.>2M;5ji2t^^-i^.!       - -  ." C,.'- Dibursed
.6 0 1 [' *j i,4ht r|t 1  pL          i.   4 .-F    ,. . 4  :| q¶pz   odQai artldpate 
',1997.            m7 Z$U GuAmnm  ILO78 at_'i~ 47 _   25_78Jl  __13   10 j:r   ~~5747._'.
_998   - '_ F_  _l cituE4u!u'- 'i  0  ! o  t20 . 1  no  [a °~  °   o  17[Y27.14  jO2   11 ~g0---
1I999-,  r l i inaSA  ,   .;   .5  -0 _  . j60 ;  20  J 71  . i 0  60  S
' 1b80i871 ;  Ipnga  -  1 -  'tr933g  i. 0   -  r5727  29.3171 EQ II  , 17327- 
09-9 -                                                     -O,tc  -  c  ,*  0  _ or  __ ,0  0
---9i     J OSAPAkL   a '  ' -8             'T1;0VW-i       7 |
:995 v, st,;               J WTASALBI  -'33  .qo - 1s  1 °  Ks  '0
rl-J95 .   LojaAAinsncgnp _i: -~-                4 5_._1.J2 _ji'2 0- ------   _ .
198j7/92/96/9  M,,  LMR ] _26 .  _  '0 JO  3  =jo _ i- C'!° ................ 1°g ..
, _ e __   L Macedo NfareL ,iQ.3 :oj ]5 _ O L6, 33      ,
.19F6 T    MaLlr  _  2_4-36. - ,[o,  *'o             O ' -iO' |=i.r°.. _-
L I 975f96  r. W . } l Oxu enoNE f  ha'  ( | 1ro  h  5   | l O  I t ° - |  l 0 l o 741  -  ' 10
1994i    1,- Paipgnt,,ro  L2: qo  5I 9  3[  .........           l_=F2 32  215 t,o;  ,_  P 7-32 -*
___    Thhii '.! oteoInid.7  1 5-85 2' 7°,iL0 2L0 _2 _.L585 i.o_0 1y1:o: t0,;or: 
r 2m000- .Purs-_ -     4 67 _jj|0_,_ LU  0  _       _   - 4.67 -1 0- ._7  __,i'lo_,,r _,,_
i,_98 = rRa_-DD -- _-  _   Ito  L-5-1 ]       E Q .2L0  _ ;'~ En L°   ---~1 6.53= !0  FV3 __
L1 991.1   L  -..J._.°._....  10  [5 9,5 h,  0  _ 0  ]Ir Os 7] hL2  o _.
,'rr5, -  = k hodiwA .| 7,5 j.   ,    Th3  .   °_       !° L7 5  - 73 --J[d _J j Z;'3
9,9  _   tpsa_. .  ___ ho  '- '-   Fo,    0    5      0 - ~   ° r-=7E--2t 10 °
M- 967Z76,_~ _, _Rias a  '1                               flL.6.  4
~1994---'7-- S-IC1'~-'~';8 Radovij.-7 --1j W °-iT  --LTh22'-81 ' 0  lE-o-~ -'477~-~
.'987/97___  - S!LAJpar____l 1667 0°_ :L-S'..  _ _  1  ,o __ JU6?'  5 j0_ ._
9949597  _Sad,_ _,,   2O   J0.   1683, ji0_.33 _L205=L 6    6     10913 '
'-199 -7- '~'~  Samr--cc ' ,  ~-1~  II 'i -I 0' - l' 1~ ijL°-'~'-  6:67  '''iLI1  J '1r 0  -~ ~''10  6 - ''',67 ~ , '~
'200-,,, Sma    o  _--  20,_- 'I  ° '0  _L .          0°-_ 0    j L-
1.1 L  . _- ISaraa ~.:...  ' FI0o3^8--  i 3  0° _r~_ LO 'Lt  I-o38 j Jf 3  0 -~''' O 'r'' '' t,,; - ,
',;. Th1x ; Srea  Al n o  - '  0.''-  3'88-  7 '0-  - 'b'   0 L-   1o .  3.88_ ,; .0=  . 9 1 - -O
_              ''3'=  a    10r Jrnco  8  I .1777 5_  ! ° _ .  t. °  - --Ii0,_L___  --  L0 _  _i
* 200 71 -, _ ,Syuw ko;  ii I,   10 ,' 0, .I        i __,~Io, _ ?   118_1LO.  _ hr  0 ij i.. 
_ 19 '>   '1;,lG 5RE_,''' -' -> L-  1346 hO  7  -% e-l5 j'i641  l- ---7L--r46- do  s  '9--  i5-r641 i 1 
1992i93'  , '_      l  ,-!~                r - = L = ___  ~ ~'LO  L  __110 . _ L_ _.i'° . . ................................................. -j
_001    . _] TeonThiFadii '!3 LA   LU  ¶s 7[  j 3 5_  0 77_  10 I O  j
S 199V l  I -V I-r_v   n-_- -  j 'p143-~  _0.' - [o  ' J'o]''~  -~  1 -14-3-.---'Q~ 0 - Q-''0 ' ~ t-,
,'1999~  ,. ,-_  *', i V , w.s~~_,_  16 li68  LO  --  Q --_,-  -~' 10 j-6,_  0,   0  0 ..  -.''1W.'  .'.- 
1,397 - 9.f.WsnibIea,._. ._ Lo _Y  ',/.0¼      r 0   1   ,_;O'|10  LO_  Lo'--- rO--r
E i2F9~''A77_ Lwi-est_ -  __. '[a  IL°__- o  tS .O  1 0''' '_,Q__=3 O,__0 _ 918 _'1L°.U_ 
.-Z001-   A  C,oncessison- ' 05. =  i.-5 --h Li5, ...LO -'  0--  j''r. J-  -   0 -- 0  I - --
,.1996t97 _,UlMgar TuIecowi  j[0wO r8I7 17  JO  r-0  '[37  10-_ - 110 o_;r 
00O1     tLo .      .s     r0 ,CW    .10      '3    '       0   110
~~~ -----*- ---eb_ - ---, I- ----8 3'---!-2--zi'----'--'-1 ---  ! -- >-|
__ _        .        98. hP._, _. _._____. _ __Lo ---.............. -j :.- -L5_ .~...WL%.....8O-..  .0 ..2
Annex 6 Page 1 of 2



t~~~~~~~~7 e7>;4ol;j1 l.t,0t,,  ,*rj  0 
] t 0l o O s loj o Lo | r o! o o o o! o R~~~~~Itp
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        F7' i°  ilO0O0 s o;  lL n oz 
9  S = = a Iv "  > _ r~O to-  O r-   CD CiI_ -0 Rc O, im 0 O z  1 3  r;L 
g HL a * 1 fl 1 j i: e k 1 g ;s U ; g, 1 2 ~~~~C tj;t..l 
~~~~~~~~~I                                                  CD  o  -j O. O  g's d lfiga!11 !



Annex 7: Brazil - Country at a Glance
ANNEX 7: BRAZIL AT A GLANCE
Latn    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America    middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Developmnert dlamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     170.1      516       647                 Lfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  3,590     3,680    4,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    6101      1,895    2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        13        16        13
Labor force (%)                                       1 9       2 3      2.0     GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  22
Urban population (% of total population)              81        75        76
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                       67        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              32        30        28
Child malnutrition (%,of children under 5)             6         9         ..         Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  87        85        87
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                   15        12        10
Grossprimary enrollment (%9o'school-agepopulation)   125       113       107              Brazil
Male                                                           ..      106              Upper-middle-,ncome group
Female                                                         *       105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos*
GDP (USs billions)                         235 0    465.0     529.4     595.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP               23.3     20 2      20 4      20.5                   Trde
Exports of goods and services/GDP            9.1      8.2      10 6      10.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  21 1-    214       19.3      19.3
Gross national savings/GDP                  17 8     18 9.     161
Current account balance/GDP                 -5 5     -0 8      -4.8      -41,     Domestc 
Interest payments/GDP                        2 7      0 4       2 5       2 5    savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              30 4     25.8      45 6      39.7
Total debt service/expoits                  634      22 5     112 3      77 9
Present value of debt/GDP                                      45 9
Present value of debt/exports                                 403 7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2 7      2 9      08        45        3.6              Brazil
GDP per capita                      08       1 5     -0 5       32        2.3'             Upper-middle-iricome group
Exportsofgoodsandservices           7.5      55      12.0,     110       13.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of invatm and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 110       81        72        7.4
Industry                                    43 8     38 7      27.5      286     10
Manufacturing                             33 5        .      231       24 0      6
Services                                    45 2     53 2      65.3      64.0                   oa
Private consumption                         69 7     59.3      61 8      62.5    -10
General govemment consumption                92      19.3      18 9      18 2                    GD1        GDP
Importsofgoodsandservices                   113       7.0      117       121
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000     Growth of exports and Ipots I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  2.8      3.2       7.4       30     40
Industry                                     2.0      2.6      -1.6       50     20
Manufacturing                               16      21        -07         .
Services                                     3 3      30        13        3.9
0
Private consumption                          12       5 7       61        99            os         07    98     o
General govemment consumpbon                 7 3     -1 7       -9.3     -5 4    -20
Gross domesbc investment                     3 3      3 4      -3 0       5.0                  Exports       In-ports
Imports of goods and services                0 5     11 9     -14.8      13.8
Note 2000 data are preliminary estmates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete
Annex 7 page 1 of 2



Brazil: Proposed Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ANNEX 7: BRAZIL AT A GLANCE
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
DomeStic prIcee                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflatlon(%)
(% change)                                                                       2,500
Consumer prices                                    2,947.7       8.9      6 0    2.000
Implicit GDP deflator                        87 3  2,509 5       4 3      8.5     10
1.000,
Govemment finance                                                                  SW -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                 .        .      19 5     20 0              95   go    97    90   D9    00
Current budget balance                                           0.4      1 0                  GDPdeflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..      ..       -6.8     -3 2
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999      2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             .   31,414    47,140   53,589      OOD
Coffee                                        ..   2,656     2,746     3,048
Soybeans                                     ..    2,854     1,593     2,188    so.:
Manufactures                                  .   19,624    35,312    41,027
Total imports (cif)                                 20,661    49,275   55,800 _
Food                                               1,379     1,655     1,507    25,___
Fuel and energy                                    4,354     4,258     6,362
Capital goods                                ..    5,932    13,570    13,593       0
04   95   90   97   9a   so  00
Export price index (1995-100)                 80       81        91       97
Import price index (199S-5100)                65       74       113       118                * Exports    * Irpots
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    123      109        80        82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990      1999      2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              21,857  34,615     55,205   64,470     0
Imports of goods and services              27,788  26,708     63,443   72,741     --                           -
Resource balance                           -5,931   7,907     -8,238   -8,271
.2II
Net income                                 -7,044  -12,523   -18,848   -17,886
Net current transfers                         42      834      1,689    1,521     -                       I    i3
Current account balance                   -12,933   -3,782   -25,397   -24,636    4
Financing items (net)                       8,990  -5,043     13,634   33,815     4 .
Changes in net reserves                     3,943   8,825     11,763    -9,179    _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)      5,853   9,175     35,725   33,011
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)          1 92E-11  2 48E-5       1.8      1 8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Compfseitlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       71,520  119,877   241,468  236,200
IBRD                                      2,035   8,427      6,822    7,377                      7377   1768
IDA                                          0        0         0         0               29486
Total debt service                         14,757   8,168     67,522   53,200                                  4
IBRD                                       275    1,975      1,381    1,351 
IDA                                          0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                9932
Official grants                             14       41        62                            -             7
Official creditors                         825     -633       660     -2,037
Private creditors                         3,745    -427    -11,828  -32,675
Foreign direct investment                 1,911     989     32,659
Portfolio equity                             0        0      1,961                       139279
World Bank program
Commitments                                820      905      1,863    1,593     A - tInD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              343      788      1,533    1,692     B - IDA   D - Other futiliateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        98    1,251       952       887     C - IMF                     G - Short-tern
Net flows                                  245     -463       580       805
Interest payments                          177      725       428       464
Nettransfers                                68   -1,187       152       341
Development Economics                                                                                              9/17/01
Annex 7 Page 2 of 2



