Report No. PID11170
Project Name                     Federative Republic of Brazil-Second
Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Region
Sector                           Financial Sector
Project ID                       BRPE66259
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Central Bank of Brazil and
Brazilian Securities
Commission
Date this PID Prepared           April 15, 2002
Projected Board Date             June 13, 2002
1.      Country and Sector Background. Starting in the early nineties, Brazil
has adopted a comprehensive package of economic reforms that has fundamentally
transformed its economy. The reform package, implemented in different stages,
covered diverse areas ranging from trade and monetary management to exchange
rate policy and the creation of fiscal institutions that enhanced credibility
in the sustainability of public finances. The first stage, until 1992,
involved trade liberalization with average tariffs being lowered from 39 to 15
percent, flexibilization of capital account transactions and establishment of
the regional trade agreement, Mercosul. A second stage of reform began with
the Real Plan in 1994 and concentrated on monetary stabilization with the most
striking development being the reduction of inflation rates of the order of
5000% in mid-1994 to 6% in 2000.   Following monetary stabilization in 1994,
the authorities undertook a third series of further reforms including a large
privatization program, and, since 1998, stabilization of the financial system
and ambitious and credible fiscal adjustment. Growth prospects have been
enhanced due to reduced vulnerability to both external and domestic shocks,
achieved by smaller trade deficits and the elimination of primary public
sector deficits. The key elements to achieve these outcomes have been the
adoption of the floating exchange rate regime, the credible and permanent
reduction in the inflation rate, the tax increases, strict austerity of those
expenditures directly under governmental control and the adoption of the
Fiscal Responsibility Law that supported adjustment processes, specially at
the sub national level.
2.      The positive outlook for Brazil that prevailed in early 2001 was
dampened by the international slowdown, recent events in Argentina, and a
domestic energy crisis. After growth of 4.5% in 2000, GDP growth in 2001 was
only 1.6 percent. As the result of the negative shocks, the real depreciated
by almost 40 percent in the first 9 months of 2001. However, as the result of
effective macroeconomic management and a swift policy response, as well as an
improvement in the external situation, the real recovered by 16 percent in
the last quarter of 2001, so that depreciation over the year as a whole was
only 16 percent. Over 2002, exchange rates have been inclined towards mild
appreciation of 0.2 percent in the first quarter. The outlook for 2002
includes a GDP growth rate of 2.5 percent, a steady inflow of foreign direct
investment, and a reduced current account deficit. Despite the year of
turbulence, the financial system and the ongoing reform agenda for the



financial system has stayed on a steady course. Brazil is expected to
withstand the current turbulences with reduced growth but without major
disruptions. Brazil has contracted a new standby arrangement with the IMF
signed in September 2001 which extends until December 2002, which will provide
a framework for the monitoring of its achievement of macroeconomic targets.
3       Program Context.   The proposed Second Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan follows a first programmatic financial sector adjustment loan
to Brazil, in the amount of US$404.04 million, approved by the Bank's Board on
May 24, 2001 (Loan No.7053-BR), followed by a US$14.5 million companion
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan FSTAL (Loan No. 4637-BR), approved
by the Bank's Board on September 4, 2001. At the time of the first loan,
programmatic support for financial sector reforms was envisaged for a total
amount of up to US$1.2 billion, spread over two to three loans, with timing
depending on the pace and depth of future reform programs. Although
macroeconomic circumstances confronting the country grew more difficult in
2001, due to both a deterioration in external conditions and a domestic energy
crisis, the government has not only maintained but accelerated its pace of
financial sector reforms. CAS discussions in 2001 reconfirmed the financial
sector as a priority area for assistance through programmatic adjustment
lending.
4       Project Objectives. The objective of the proposed operation is to lend
continued support to the comprehensive financial sector reform program pursued
by the authorities and supported by the Bank through a first programmatic loan
in 2001, and its recently expanded sectoral reform agenda. Through its support
for a strengthened financial system, the loan would help to firmly anchor
sustainable, environmentally and socially sound growth with directly targeted
poverty reduction through measures to expand access to financial services, and
enhance protection against crises.
5       Project Components.    The proposed second financial sector adjustment
loan supports sustained progress in all reform areas covered in the first
programmatic operation, and gives particular recognition to accelerated
implementation of major and difficult financial sector reforms, beyond the
scope of the first programmatic adjustment operation. Areas covered include:
Progress with regard to program actions to:
Enhance access to and raise efficiency in financial intermediation;
Promote banking system soundness and prevent financial crises;
Improve governance in capital markets and strengthen the regulator
Reduce systemic payments risks and Central Bank exposure to losses in
settlement.
(ii)   Public bank reform, encompassing initiation of major restructuring    /
reform of Federal banks, plus extension of privatization of state-owned public
banks, including:
Restoration to health of federal bank balance sheets, recognizing and
absorbing past losses
Assumption by government of risks and costs of incurred due to future
implementation of government programs and the unbundling of government and
commercial objectives
Establishment of improved internal controls, and
Preparation of blueprint for second stage reforms
Acceleration and approaching
(iii) Passage/submission of major legal reforms pertaining to the financial
sector, including notably passage of a landmark revision of the Corporate Law,
which enhances minority shareholder rights, and passage of a revised CVM law,
strengthening the securities regulator.
6.      Benefits in the form of enhanced access include a number of measures
- 2 -



recently adopted, including the formulation of a strategy, and passage of
regulations to raise access to capital for microfinance enterprises, lines of
credit extended to microfinance enterprises directly through a microenterprise
support agency, the opening up of the sales of treasury bills in retail to
small savers, the extension of data in the Central Bank's Credit Risk Center
to small borrowers and the auction of a franchise of post office facilities
for the provision of financial services through the private sector to remote
areas. Measures taken to increase efficiency and transparency of overall
financial intermediation also enhance access, for example to housing finance,
and to increase minority shareholder participation in capital markets.
Improvements in banking supervision contribute to reduced systemic risk and
payment systems reforms reduce the Central Bank exposure to risk of loss in
settlement, thus dampening the propensity for financial crises. Capital
markets reforms increase securities market participation by minority
shareholders and hence enhance access to capital for enterprise growth.
Finally, expected benefits of public bank reform include enhanced financial
soundness in Brazil's largest financial institutions; enhanced fiscal
transparency, improved governance and improved internal controls.
7.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.    Regarding the
achievement of macroeconomic targets, the Bank is maintaining continued close
contact with the IMF. On the financial sector itself, regular Bank missions
will review progress of the implementation of the proposed reforms and their
outcomes. The program rests upon dialogue of unusual quality at the highest
levels and enables the building of a partnership in reform efforts with a key
player whose financial sector has systemic regional links. The ongoing
technical assistance loans further directly support both the implementation of
reform efforts as well as the monitoring of overall reform achievements.
8.      Executing agencies: The Central Bank of Brazil and the CVM (Brazil's
Securities Commission) would be the executing agencies.
9.      Project Sustainability.    As demonstrated under the first programmatic
loan, Brazil has been committed to its program of financial sector reform and
has shown a remarkable capacity to maintain its course even in the midst of
macroeconomic difficulties. Unless macroeconomic difficulties escalate beyond
present forecasts, or investor confidence suffers an unforeseen decline,
reform sustainability, from this point of view, appears very likely. Second,
in terms of implementation capacity, the Central Bank team which is the key
implementation agency is strongly capable and competent. A third issue which
could arise is the political uncertainty of maintaining the momentum of
reforms under a new administration. Authorities at present have built up
public support for the reforms through disclosure and transparency of reform
objectives and gains, and this should help to ensure sustainability across
administrations.
10.     Poverty Category and Environmental Aspects.    With regard to poverty,
the loan commends and supports Brazil's broad-based efforts described above to
raise access to financial services for the underserved, including poorer and
smaller segments and persons in remote areas, which is expected to support
poverty alleviation. Although the financial sector has generally been deemed
to have few environmental issues, a review was nonetheless commissioned of
potential environmental considerations, through an investigation by an
independent consultant. Main issues included an investigation of present
environmental policies and standards applicable towards both federal and
private bank lending as well as the application of such standards for credit
decisions. Key points to emerge are that norms, criteria and environmental
standards specified in Brazilian environmental legislation for financial
institutions, through the principal instrument of the Protocol Verde, are of
- 3-



high quality. Moreover, the investigation of environmental practices,
especially at some of the large federal banks had many positive findings.
Areas for strengthening have also been pointed out. An Integrated Safeguards
datasheet has been filed. As expected and based both on the Bank's current
guidelines, and on the enhanced information produced in the consultants
report, the project is deemed to have no environmental impact (i.e., a "C"
rating is awarded).
11.     Program Objective Category.     Economic Management (EM)
12.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Facsimile:    (202) 522-1500
Anjali Kumar
Task Manager
(202) 458-0004
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 3, 2002.
-4-



