                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 26187-BR

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-71210)

                                                  ON A

                                       LOAN (Loan No. 7121 - BR)

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$404.04 MILLION

                                                    TO

                              THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                                 FOR A

             SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                           September 26, 2003




Brazil Country Management Unit
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin American and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective September 15, 2003)

                                      Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                               R$2.9 = US$ 1
                                               US$ 1 = R$2.9

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1     December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA       Atividades Analíticas e Consultivas                       Analytic and Advisory Activities
BNDES     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social      National Bank for Economic and Social
                                                                    Development
BNDESpar  BNDES Participações                                       National Bank for Economic and Social
                                                                    Development - Equity Branch
BOVESPA   Bolsa de Valores de São Paulo                             Stock Exchange of Brazil - São Paulo
CAIXA     Caixa Econômica Federal                                   National Infrastructure/Housing Bank
CAMELS    Sistema de Ratings Bancários                              Bank Rating System
CAS       Estratégia de Assistência para o País                     Country Assistance Strategy
CBTAL     Empréstimo de Assistência Técnica à Modernização do       Central Bank Modernization Technical
          Banco Central                                             Assistance Loan
CETIP     Central de Custódia e de Liquidação Financeira de Títulos Central Custody and Settlement of Securities
CMN       Conselho Monetário Nacional                               National Monetary Council
CPMF      Contribuição Provisória sobre Movimentação Financeira     Temporary Tax on Financial Transactions
CVM       Comissão de Valores Mobiliários do Brasil                 Brazil Securities & Exchange Commission
FDI       Investimento Direto Estrangeiro                           Foreign Direct Investment
FGC       Fundo Garantidor de Créditos                              Credit Insurance Fund
FSTAL     Segundo Empréstimo de Assistência Técnica                 Second Technical Assistance Loan
GCI       Inspeção Global Consolidada                               Global Consolidated Inspection
GDP       Produto Interno Bruto                                     Gross Domestic Product
IBRD      O Banco Internacional para Reconstrução e                 International Bank for Reconstruction and
          Desenvolvimento                                           Development
ICR       Relatório da Conclusão da Execução                        Implementation Completion Report
IMF       Fundo Monetário Internacional                             International Monetary Fund
PFSECAL   Empréstimo Programático para Ajuste ao Setor Financiero Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
PROES     Programa de Incentivo à Redução do Setor Público EstadualReduction of State Level Participation in
          na Atividade Bancária                                     Banking Activities
RTGS      Sistema de Transferência de Reservas                      Real-time Gross Settlement
SAL       Empréstimo para Ajustamento Estrutural                    Structural Adjustment Loan
SPC       Secretaria de Previdência Complementar                    Secretariat of Complementary Social Security
TA        Assistência Técnica                                       Technical Assistance



                                    Vice President:        David de Ferranti
                                  Country Director         Vinod Thomas
                                    Sector Director        Danny M. Leipziger
                                    Sector Manager         Fernando Montes-Negret
                                Task Team Leader           Anjali Kumar

                                           BRAZIL
                    2nd Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          14
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            24
6. Sustainability                                                                26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 26
8. Lessons Learned                                                               27
9. Partner Comments                                                              28
10. Additional Information                                                       31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             42
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             43
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             44
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47
Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions                                                48
Annex 9. Comments Received from the Central Bank (Portuguese original)           56
Annex 10. Comments Received from the CVM (Portuguese original)                   58

Project ID: P066259                                                      Project Name: 2nd Programmatic Financial Sector
                                                                         Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Anjali Kumar                                                TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: September 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: 2nd Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment             L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71210
                            Loan
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (50%); Capital markets (20%); Housing finance and real
                            estate markets (13%); Micro- and SME finance (10%); Payment
                            systems, securities clearance and settlement (7%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P); Corporate governance (S); Standards and
                            financial reporting (S); International financial architecture (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/20/2001                                        Effective:                         07/25/2002
   Appraisal:    02/25/2002                                            MTR:
    Approval:    06/13/2002                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/Banco Central do Brasil and Comissão de
                                           Valores Mobiliários do Brasil
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:                 Fernando Montes-Negret                         Fernando Montes-Negret
Team Leader at ICR:             Anjali Kumar                                   Anjali Kumar
ICR Primary Author:             Anjali Kumar; Manuel Lasaga


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

1.       Introduction: Role of ICR in the Present Operation: The present implementation report on the
Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (PFSECAL-II) comments on the
performance of a single tranche adjustment loan embedded within a larger programmatic lending
framework of a series of such single tranche operations. The ICR for the First Programmatic
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (PFSECAL I) addressed the foundations of these operations in
terms of objectives, design and execution of the overall program (see endnote). Since the ICR for the
                                                                                     1


first loan was prepared after the second Loan had been approved and disbursed, the ICR for the first loan
also substantially incorporated information on the achievements of the Second Programmatic Loan. Thus
the current ICR for the Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (PFSECAL-II) presents
an incremental analysis of the accomplishments of the overall program and the achievement of its
objectives as well as implementation and output of principal components of this specific loan. Since the
design of the Second Loan was largely based on the foundations as the First Programmatic Loan, the
present ICR will focus on (i) those areas where the Second Loan represents new or altered design elements
compared to the first Loan, especially, those areas where substantial new progress was achieved relative to
the First loan; and (ii) the continued relevance of the original design elements as established at the time of
the First Loan, in the context of economic and financial trends since the time of the First Loan, and their
implications for the evolution of the Program. (iii) This ICR also attempts to address and incorporate
comments received on the ICR of the first loan and presents in particular a longer time perspective as well
as additional details for a longer term assessment of financial sector reforms.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
2.       The objectives of the Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(PFSECAL-II, or Second Loan) was to lend continued support to the comprehensive financial sector
reform program pursued by the authorities and supported by the Bank through a first programmatic
loan in 2001, and its expanded sectoral reform agenda. Through its support for a strengthened
financial system, the loan would help to anchor poverty reduction in Brazil with sustainable, sound
and crisis-dampening economic growth, as well as directly aiding poverty alleviation through
enhanced access to financial services. As the second of a series of programmatic adjustment loans, its
design reflected the continuation of the reform program described in the First Programmatic Loan
(PFSECAL-I) in 2001, along with an expanded sectoral reform agenda, which included the rationalization
of public sector banks, as well as increased emphasis on sound overall quality of growth, financial access
and poverty reduction.

3.       Economic Context: Broad trends in the economic context from the launching of the Real plan
to the time of the initiation of the present programmatic loan series have been detailed in the ICR for
the first programmatic loan. To summarize, the macroeconomic stability initiated with the 1994 Real
Plan, dramatically reduced inflation and permitted a clear focus on structural reforms. The12-month
consumer price inflation index fell dramatically from over 2,477 percent per annum at end-1993 to less
than 2 percent at end-1998. A favorable external financing environment contributed significantly to the
success of the exchange-rate-based anti-inflation program through 1998. Foreign direct investment (FDI)
inflows increased steadily--a trend that was not reversed by the currency devaluation in early-1999. Bold
steps taken towards devaluation in early 1999 ensured that macroeconomic stabilization endured and was
consolidated despite the severe financial turbulence and the exchange rate crisis. After the 1999
devaluation, a new inflation targeting framework was adopted for monetary policy and macroeconomic
management and early targets were largely fulfilled. Nominal interest rates were declining at the time of the
First Loan, a credible International Monetary Fund (IMF) program was in place and Brazil had




                                                     - 2 -

demonstrated an ability to consistently achieve and exceed fiscal targets.

4.        Programmatic financial sector lending was initiated against a backdrop of economic stability
and resumed growth, which permitted a range of ambitious structural reform programs, to be
simultaneously launched. Real economic growth in 2000 achieved a recently unprecedented 4.5 percent.
The most notable structural reform achieved in this context was the approval in May 2000 of the Fiscal
Responsibility Law, a major move towards institutionalizing fiscal discipline. The Bank provided reform
support for the fiscal area with a Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment Loan for US$750
million. Recognizing that growth and especially stability and crisis prevention are an important bulwark
against crisis-induced poverty, the Program's overall objectives of the Bank's first Programmatic Financial
Sector Loan to Brazil were formally defined as: (i) underpinning economic growth; (ii) contributing to
poverty reduction in the long-run; and (iii) avoiding the reversal of growth and poverty reduction through
financial crisis prevention.

5.        By contrast, a series of macroeconomic setbacks confronted the country in the year prior to
the approval of the Second Loan in June 2002, approximately one year after the approval of the First
Loan. These included (i) an international demand slowdown following the crises of September 2001,
corporate scandals, and an oil price shock; (ii) the rapid downturn in Argentina and Uruguay, and ensuing
erosion of confidence towards Brazil; and (iii) a domestic energy crisis precipitated by historically low
rainfall levels that depleted hydro reservoirs, and ensuing electricity rationing that constrained economic
activity.  In contrast to the previous year, growth in 2001 slowed to 1.5 percent and there was a
depreciation of the real of nearly 40 percent in the first nine months of 2001. The Government reacted to
the shocks with an appropriate mix of monetary and fiscal tightening. Although the primary surplus for
2001 reached 3.7 percent of GDP, representing an overachievement of the 3.5 percent IMF target, 2001
inflation of 7.7 percent exceeded the target band of 6 percent, which was unavoidable given the
extraordinary circumstances of the year. The Central Bank increased short-term interest rates to contain
inflationary pressures resulting from the currency depreciation. The signing of a new 15-month IMF
Standby Arrangement in September of that year was a positive signal for the sustainability of the economic
program.

6.        Effective Government response to shocks provided market reassurance and some regaining
of stability by mid 2002. At the time of Board approval of the PFSECAL-II, the economy appeared
to have resumed steady but modest expansion, but with somewhat higher inflation. Financial sector
reforms supported by PFSECAL I had raised the level of confidence in the soundness of the financial
system. While interest rates still posed a challenge, their level was consistent with the short-term strategy of
stabilizing the currency. The real strengthened from a low of R$2.80 to the U.S. dollar in late September
back to around R$2.30 in April 2002. During the same period, the correlation between Brazil's and
Argentina's sovereign spreads fell from around 0.8 to 0.3. In 2002, Brazil's trade surplus rapidly increased
to US$12 billion, mostly as the result of import compression. The depreciation of the currency during
2001 failed to ignite inflationary pressures, which peaked at only 7.8 percent during the first quarter of
2002. The muted inflationary impact of the devaluation can be attributed to the Government's credible
fiscal and monetary policy response to external pressures and possibly to existing excess capacity in many
sectors. Central Bank commitment to inflation targeting helped deflect cost-push pressures. On the other
hand, as the Central Bank raised domestic interest rates to stabilize the currency, the higher cost of funds
impacted negatively on demand for credit, and thus on economic activity. Domestic credit was constrained
not only by high borrowing costs but also by banks' reduced appetite for risk in view of a more uncertain
macroeconomic environment.




                                                      - 3 -

7.      Economic events after the approval of the Second Financial Adjustment Loan reflected the
impact of political uncertainty due to forthcoming elections. After considerable turbulence towards
end-2002 and early 2003, the new government succeeded in restoring market confidence. Continued
reliance on external financing implied vulnerability to shocks from interest rate and exchange rate volatility,
which were heightened by turbulent financial markets. By the time the loan was declared effective in June
2002, political perceptions gave rise to a new bout of currency turmoil, triggered by the uncertainty
surrounding the outcome of the presidential elections in October of that year. In an effort to calm the
market's nervousness the government entered into a US$30 billion stand-by arrangement with the IMF in
August 2002. However, the weak exchange rate persisted in the latter half of 2002, and early 2003, raising
debt servicing costs. The new administration, arriving in this context, rapidly adopted concrete fiscal
adjustment measures, with a new primary surplus target of 4.25 percent of GDP, which sent strong signals
of the government's commitment to fiscal responsibility. Monetary policy was simultaneously tightened,
with increases in the interbank rate and in reserve requirements. Markets reacted positively to the first
months under the new Government and the perceived consistency of the macroeconomic program. By mid-
2003, the exchange rate appreciated once more to R$2.85 (from R$4 in September 2002) (see Annex
Figure A1.1c) and sovereign bond spreads narrowed to below 800bps (from 2500bps in September 2002)
(see Annex Figure A1.4b).

8.      Nevertheless, both external and internal vulnerabilities remain. Global risk aversion continues
to hamper the return of capital flows and foreign direct investment to the country. On the internal side the
main risks arise from the possibility of increased inflation and from uncertainty about structural reforms.
The Inácio Da Silva (Lula) administration has been aggressive in pursuing structural reforms deemed
necessary for restoring credibility and sustainability in Brazil's economic management. Two major reforms
proposals, on taxes and social security reform, have been partially voted through Congress, and would help
to secure sound medium term macroeconomic management.

9.      Status of the Financial System: An overview of financial sector reform trends over the period
leading up to the initiation of financial sector programmatic lending (from the launching of the Real
Plan until the year 2000) has been detailed in the ICR for PFSECAL-1. Looking at the period of
programmatic lending, during the period of preparation of the Second Programmatic Financial
Sector Loan, in 2001, the banking system stood up well to the weakening economy and to disruptive
external pressures against the currency. In fact, the depreciation of the currency helped buttress bank
earnings, based on their net long position in foreign currency. Despite the depreciation of the currency,
bank earnings remained substantial. Return on equity (ROE) of private banks, at 19.1 percent in 2001, had
increased moderately from 18.2 percent in 2000. Over the year 2001 to 2002, despite macroeconomic
turbulence, the banking system strengthened further, as returns to equity in private banks rose significantly
further to over 35 percent by December 2002. Returns to equity in the public banking system also
registered 16.8 percent in 2002 (Annex Table A1.2). However, loans as a percentage of total assets
remained largely unchanged (25.9 percent for public banks; unchanged over December 2001, and 31.7
percent for private banks in December 2002, also virtually unchanged compared to 31.9 percent in
December 2001). High returns to banks reflected their large holdings of government securities, many of
short maturities and indexed to the interest rate, whose earnings increased as interest rates rose. A part of
the government and Central Bank paper held by the banks is also exchange rate indexed, which therefore
increased bank revenues as the exchange rate depreciated. Bank earnings have therefore assumed a counter
cyclical pattern, with bank gains mirrored in increased public risk loss and exposure.

10.     In May 2002, at the time of the Second Loan approval, interest rates in the banking system
had begun to show some retreat from the increase brought on in late 2001 by the depreciation of the



                                                     - 4 -

currency. However, the retreat proved short-lived, as rates began to climb again shortly after, from July
2002, in response to pressures on the exchange rate with increased political uncertainties. By early 2003,
interest rates reached their highest levels since 1999 (Annex 1 Figures A.1.1 and A.1.2a and A.1.2b). By
raising interest rates in order to re-establish macroeconomic stability, policy inevitably also affected
somewhat adversely the trend reductions observed in interest rate spreads. As clearly shown in
Figures A1.2a and A1.2b, patterns in spreads closely reflect patterns in the underlying rates, and
spread reductions are difficult in the face of rising underlying rates. (Note that data on interest rate
trends in this ICR encompass a ten year period, in contrast to the one year period covered in the ICR for
PFSECAL-1 in Annex Figure A1.2a).

11.      Tighter interest rates, as expected, were reflected in a contraction in credit, and concerns
increased about tight monetary policy slowing down the pace of economic recovery. Total credit as a
percentage of GDP declined from around 30 percent in early 2001 (shortly before the presentation of the
First Programmatic Loan), to barely 24 percent by the end of 2002. However, signs of recovery are now
apparent (see Annex Figure A1.3).

12.      In response, from mid 2003, the Central Bank began to aggressively reduce interest rates
again, with an immediate positive impact on bank spreads. With the success of macroeconomic
restraints adopted in the first half of the year the currency gradually regained its value. In response, three
successive rate cuts were announced in the monthly meetings of the Monetary Policy Committee, over June,
July and August, in the base interbank (SELIC) rate. The cuts, of successively increasing magnitude,
reduced the base rate by 0.5 percent, 1 percent, and 2.5 percent; reducing the base rate from 26.5 percent at
the beginning of June, 2003, to 22 percent by the end of August; an overall reduction of 450 basis points.
This has been accompanied by a major reduction of more than 100 basis points in the Brazilian spread
during the month of August, bringing it to levels below 700 basis points, not attained since early 2001.

13.      Attempts to decompose the components of interest rate spreads reveal also that the
components of spreads which have increased over the past two years have been direct taxation and
net bank margins, in contrast to administrative expenses and default expenses which have
proportionally diminished. This exercise in decomposition has been undertaken by an ongoing project at
the Central Bank (see Annex Figure A1.2b; not included in the ICR for PFSECAL-1). This emphasizes the
contribution of factors such as the CPMF tax, as well as other financial sector taxes, including those for
which reform proposals are currently in Congress (the PIS-COFINS tax). The reduced shares of
administrative expenses and default expenses also suggest increased efficiency within the banking system;
however the increase in net margins reflects recent gains in the banks' government securities' portfolios.
Increased bank competition may also be beneficial for the reduction in net margins, as would some decline
in relatively less efficient directed lending, undertaken substantially by public banks. As discussed recently
by Bank staff with the Central Bank, this may provide a shelter under which more efficient banks may be
raising large profits.

14.      Brazil's capital markets performance over the period leading up to the Second Loan was
clearly influenced by the macroeconomic uncertainties at play during 2001-2002. With the bulk of the
debt market dominated by government securities, yields on these instruments continued to offer the highest
real rates of return. Equity markets were also negatively impacted by investor withdrawal. Equity market
capitalization had fallen from US$225.5 billion in December 2000 to US$185.4 billion in December 2001.
At the time of presentation of the Second programmatic loan, the slide continued. By December 2002,
market capitalization shrank further to US$124 billion and the number of listed companies contracted from
428 to 399. On the other hand, passage of the new corporation law induced market participants to focus on



                                                      - 5 -

good corporate governance, emphasized by the stock exchange (BOVESPA) through the establishment of
the Novo Mercado for companies that met new higher standards for corporate governance.

15.      But by mid-2003 Brazil's capital markets were showing clear signs of recovery. In July 2003,
market capitalization rose once again to US$160.7, and further to US$172.7 billion by end-August 2003,
indicating a firm upward trend.

16.      Meanwhile basic indicators of access to financial services have shown steady improvement
over the period of programmatic adjustment. Numbers of bank branches have grown from 16,396 in
December 2000 to 16,841 in December 2001 and further to 17,049 by December 2002. Numbers of
municipalities with banking services have increased in parallel from 5,636 to 5,654 and now to 5,658 over
the same periods (see Annex Table A1.1).

17.      As the economy and the financial system began to stabilize, the new government has resumed
the tackling of structural reforms for the financial system, maintaining significant continuity with
many of the major elements of the reform agenda initiated with the previous administration. One very
significant reform has already been achieved, almost unnoticed. On April 2, 2003, PEC 53 for the
amendment of the Constitutional Article 192 was voted in the Lower House, and approved by a large
majority. In the following month the proposed amendment was passed as Constitutional Amendment 40, of
May 29 2003 (see endnote). This will now pave the way for a series of additional legal reform initiatives
                              2


in the financial sector, including the eventual passage of a law for Central Bank independence, currently
under preparation, as well as reforms to the basic law for the financial system, and a new draft law for
bank failure resolution. A second key element in the overall reform program is the passage of proposed
new bankruptcy legislation. This is now in Congress, as a government sponsored bill, and voting is
expected to begin within the present calendar year. Third, the new government is giving high priority to the
issue of financial access, and a series of new measures supporting access have been passed in the period
from June to August 2003 .

18.      Status of Financial Sector Dialogue: The positive and fruitful dialogue between the
Government and the Bank built during the course of PFESCAL I was further intensified and
deepened during the preparation and follow up of PFSECAL-2. The greater depth of engagement is
evidenced most of all by the lack of a distinction, in the second operation, between the government's reform
agenda and the agenda under discussion with the Bank; unlike PFSECAL-1. Essentially, the scope of
engagement had expanded to encompass all areas, and no topics remained off limits. Illustrative examples
include, first, public bank reform. Bank staff undertook major diagnostics of the condition of all federal
banks, and discussed reform options with the government, which fed into the formulations of blueprints at
each bank, prepared by the Supervision department of the Central Bank. Intensive discussions and follow
up were also held on the status and scope of state bank reforms. In view of the sensitivity of these issues,
the full depth and scale of findings and discussions is only partially reflected in the Annex on public bank
reforms, which accompanies the Program Document for the Second Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan.

19.      The PFSECAL-2 also gave new prominence to the theme of access to financial services for the
poor. In parallel to the preparation of this loan, a major new study on the access to financial services for
the underserved population, launched by the Bank in response to a request by the Central Bank, has
pioneered intensive debate and discussion in this area. Given the prominence of this theme in the agenda of
the Inácio Da Silva (Lula) administration, many of the reports findings and recommendations are mirrored
in measures recently adopted by the new administration in this area. Third, the Second Programmatic



                                                      - 6 -

Financial Sector Adjustment Loan also made a concerted effort to examine, for the first time, the relation
between financial sector lending and the environment. Efforts were made to ascertain environmental
guidelines adopted for screening loans at all major banks, both public and private. The findings of the Bank
investigation, presented both to the government and to the private sector, served as the basis for a
public-private seminar, sponsored by FEBRABAN, the banking association of Brazil, heightening
awareness of options for environmentally sound project screening in Brazil's banking system. Finally,
cemented by the ongoing Technical Assistance loans, which accompanied the Programmatic Adjustment
loans, intensified debate and discussion is ongoing in a number of areas spanning both the Central Bank
and capital markets.

20.      Country Dialogue and CAS Strategy: As with its predecessor, PFSECAL-II was designed as a
single tranche financial sector adjustment loan; the second in a series of two to three programmatic
adjustment loans supporting the Government's overall reform agenda for the financial system. It had
been agreed that the second and future adjustment loans would be triggered by a critical mass of reforms
outlined in the Program matrix (see endnote). Support in each loan would be extended for actions already
                                               3


completed. The Government and the Bank jointly confirmed the financial sector as a priority area for
assistance through programmatic adjustment lending, for a total amount of up to US$1.2 billion, spread
over a period of two to three years. Overall Program objectives were reasonable and consistent with the
latest Bank's country strategy progress report, approved by the Board of Directors of the Bank on June
13th, 2002, which highlighted the spectrum of structural reforms undertaken in the financial system,
including public bank reform and state bank privatization, passage of a new Corporate Law, and the
launching of the new payments system and the consequent significant reduction in systemic financial sector
risk (see endnote).4




21.      Country Dialogue has been maintained with the change in administration, and the
programmatic framework has supported the bridging of the transition. With the change in
administration, virtually all staff on the Board of the Central Bank, which also holds all senior executive
offices, as well as the head of the Central Bank, have changed. Yet, reform directions and strategies laid
out by the previous administration are being largely maintained, although there was some shift in emphasis
towards more immediate monetary policy management in the early part of 2003, as required by market
turbulence. A return to underlying structural reform issues is now clear.

22.      Loan Instrument Selection and Design: As explained in the previous ICR, a programmatic
approach was adopted at the outset of this series because of a number of reasons; the flexibility
permitted by the programmatic instrument in terms of loan timing and amount, depending upon actual
achievement of reform, the mutual acknowledgement of the need for a longer time horizon for some reforms
to be effected and the uncertainty attached to the timing of some of these actions; and the maturity of the
dialogue with Brazilian authorities, which permitted the mutual identification of potential programmatic
areas and a consultative approach to reform. Finally, on political grounds, programmatic lending was
acceptable to the government, in contrast to the Bank's more traditional adjustment lending instruments.
The design of the second loan served to underscore the value of the programmatic approach, as it was
based upon the overall reform matrix envisaged in the first operation, while the programmatic feature made
it possible to expand the framework to incorporate major         new areas beyond the scope of the first
operation. It also enabled the dropping of the distinction, made in the first operation, between the
government's reform program, and the Bank-supported reform agenda for the financial system.
Simultaneously, somewhat slower than expected progress in other program areas could also be honestly
acknowledged and weighed against the substantial progress effected elsewhere. On balance, the trigger
actions for the Second Loan raised the bar for policy reforms.



                                                     - 7 -

23.      Government officials reaffirmed their recognition that the programmatic approach gave them
greater flexibility to introduce new items to the agenda, or alter the `mix' of reform items. Thus, at the
time of the first loan, the prospect of significant initiation of federal bank reform appeared low; however
reforms in this area accelerated significantly soon after the first loan went to the Board, permitting the
incorporation of the federal bank theme with significant new emphasis in the second loan. For the Bank,
the flexibility of a programmatic approach provided an instrument to bridge a change in government,
in January 2003.

24.      Risks to the Program and its implementation through the programmatic loans were clearly
identified by the Bank in the President's Report of the First Loan as well as in the Program
Document of the Second Loan. The principal risks pointed out in PFSECAL-II were: (i) political
uncertainty, mainly the outlook after the October 2002 elections; (ii) adverse macroeconomic shocks ­
domestic and external; and (iii) sustainability of federal banks reform in view of the upcoming presidential
elections and the likelihood of a change in the view towards public sector financial intermediation. Relative
to the First Loan, greater emphasis was placed on risks arising from a change in Government and on
potential macroeconomic problems, while the risks of institutional weakness, as well as weakening reform
consensus, emphasized in the First Loan, were considered less significant. As events have unfolded, the
portrayal of risks has been accurate. Major adverse economic shocks followed the second loan, due to
political uncertainty, which were a significant factor behind the limited achievement of reforms in such
areas as interest rates and spreads, at least until market confidence was restored by mid-2003. It also
appears that the risk of slow progress in the area of federal bank reform was correctly evaluated. Although
there does not appear to be any reversal in this area, and reforms are still progressing, as described further
below, the pace of progress has slowed down compared to the reforms initiated prior to the launching of the
Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.

3.2 Revised Objective:
25.      The loan objectives as well as broad program objectives, remained unchanged.


3.3 Original Components:
Overall Design of PFSECAL-II

26.      The second financial sector programmatic loan to Brazil spanned all areas of the financial
system identified by the Government for its reform agenda. An analysis of the design of the core
program, as adopted by the First Loan, is contained in the ICR for PFSECAL-I. The Second Loan builds
upon the first, however adding important further actions and extending the overall goals of the program to
encompass all reform areas. The original program design as reflected in the policy matrix maintained its
relevance during the preparation of PFSECAL-II. However, two areas which were absent in the first
operation were the reform of public banks, and acceleration of the passage of fundamental legislation. It
was pointed out in the ICR to the first operation that greater efforts could have been made in the first
operation to include these areas. Both these areas were drawn into the second operation, together with an
expanded agenda on access to financial services. The Government accelerated its reform of public banks,
and also drew the Bank into the design of its public bank reform options, which thus became a distinctive
feature of the Second Loan. Significant legislation was passed in the area of Brazil's securities markets,
and there was an acceleration in progress in the Constitutional reform required to pave the way for new
legislative changes. Heightened emphasis on access was also reflected.

27.      Unlike the First Loan, the Second Loan adopted a single matrix which comprehensively



                                                     - 8 -

covered both the government and the Bank supported reform agenda. In the first loan, a second matrix
provided a comprehensive view of the Government's complete financial sector reform program, including
areas outside the scope of Bank involvement. This comprehensive matrix thus included public bank reform
and fundamental financial system legislation (see endnote). At the time of the First Loan it was expected
                                                                  5


that action in these two areas would be forthcoming, but its timing could not be specified with a meaningful
degree of accuracy. The programmatic matrix as defined for the First Loan presented a critical mass of
reforms that were deemed sufficient to achieve the overall objectives of the program with the
acknowledgement that subsequent loans could be extended to acknowledge reforms in these wider areas.
Once actions related to public sector banks and fundamental financial legislation were successfully
incorporated into the Second Loan, the programmatic matrix was completed and the two matrix structure
was rendered redundant. Because of the flexibility in adapting the policy matrix to changes in the reform
agenda, the programmatic approach proved an advantage in the design of each operation, while maintaining
the integrity of the overall program.

28.       The second financial sector adjustment operation rested on three basic pillars. The first pillar
encompassed most of the actions already taken in the First Loan, acknowledging higher levels of
reform and reflecting the completion and consolidation of actions which had been initiated in the First
Loan. The other two basic pillars represented initiatives that were not explicitly identified in the
programmatic matrix developed in the First Loan, but had been incorporated in the Government's
overall reforms of the financial sector. The second financial sector adjustment operation thus included in
its first pillar (Part I) all four areas supported by the first programmatic loan, which encompassed issues of
(i) expanded access and increased efficiency of financial intermediation, (ii) increased banking system
soundness and enhanced supervision, (iii) reduction of payments system risk and (iv) strengthened capital
markets. All these areas were subsumed under a single pillar, covering Financial System Access, Depth,
Efficiency, and Safety. Next, the PFSECAL-II added two additional pillars: (II) Public Bank Reform; and
(III). Fundamental Financial System Legislation. The policy matrix for PFSECAL-II thus regroups policy
actions to permit the appropriate inclusion of these new areas.

29.       The second pillar of PFSECAL-II dealt with public bank reform. It acknowledged the
assessment of the financial condition of federal banks for the first time, through the new process of global
consolidated inspections undertaken by the Central Bank's supervisors. For the first time, public banks
were assessed against the same standards of prudential regulation as private banks. The process led to the
exposure of significant bad assets at these banks. The loan supported the acknowledgement by the
government, as owner of these banks, of their precarious financial condition. While the cleanup of bad
loans was a first stage in public bank reform, the loan also supported the preparation of a blueprint for
subsequent stages of reform, as well as the institutionalization of processes for the transparent monitoring
and supervision of public bank performance, and the institutionalization of government support to these
institutions through the budget. Finally, it also acknowledged the enormous progress made by the
government in the area of conversions to development agencies, sales and liquidation of public banks
owned by state governments.

30.       The third pillar introduced in the matrix of the PFSECAL-II, referred to the passage of
Fundamental Financial System Legislation. It encompassed first of all the passage of the new Corporate
Law, which represented a major reform of governance especially for minority shareholders in Brazil's
publicly owned companies. It also encompassed reforms in fundamental financial system legislation, linked
to the possibility of passing an amendment to Article 192 of the 1988 Constitution that would enable legal
reforms in multiple areas of the financial system. At the time of preparation of the First Loan, the
Government and the Bank had agreed that it was premature to predict the timing of the constitutional



                                                        - 9 -

amendment. After the passage of the PFSECAL-I, rapid progress in Congress on the passage of the
proposed constitutional reform allowed its incorporation into the expanded programmatic matrix.
Nevertheless, PFSECAL-II was presented to the Bank's Board without a requirement for the ultimate
passage through Congress of the modifications to Article 192; this was presented as an upside scenario
which would merit additional support if achieved.

31.      The design of the Second Loan reflected the evolutionary nature of programmatic lending.
The programmatic matrix represents a strategic vision of how policy reforms are expected to be
implemented, which involves the identification of future phases based on a set of assumptions concerning
the outcome at each stage of the program. The variability in the implementation of future actions, which is
greater with more complex components, results in varying sets of outcomes that may call for adjustments in
the subsequent loans. This is precisely one of the advantages of the programmatic lending approach, which
was beneficial in the case of the Brazilian PFSECALs. It permitted the variations in the elements
contributing to the achievement of the strategic vision, without the need for changes in overall objectives.

32.      The second loan represented a significantly richer dialogue as well as more emphasis on
poverty reduction, as compared to the first. It is arguable that, as discussed in the ICR for the first loan,
more emphasis could have been given to the design of components that directly addressed the goal of
poverty reduction within a short time frame. However, as the experience of the First Loan demonstrated, it
is not easy to achieve a noticeable impact in the short term when the overall design of the program is geared
towards medium- to long-term objectives. Bank policies regarding the use of programmatic loans state that
the ultimate objective of these loans is to "achieve sustainable reductions of poverty through reforms that
promote growth and serve to protect the poor and other vulnerable groups through a medium-term program
of institution building and policy reform (see endnote)."    6   Moreover, through both, and especially the
second, adjustment loans, as well as through the collaborative study on Access to Financial Services, the
Bank has considerably enriched the dialogue on measures to address access. A series of new initiatives in
this area were taken by the government in the summer of 2003, while popular debate on the theme,
engaging the Bank, has accelerated. The design of an immediate poverty reduction component in the
adjustment loan would have necessitated a hybrid structure including a project financing component such
as, for example, a micro-financing scheme. However, this would have compromised the effectiveness of the
loan in supporting broader financial sector reforms which would encourage the sound establishment of
Brazil's domestic microfinance for all players.

Principal Components for PFSECAL-II:

33.      The principal broad policy areas of the PFSECAL-II were (i) financial system access, depth,
efficiency, and safety; (ii) public sector banks; and (iii) fundamental financial system legislation. The
initiatives within the first component expanded on actions already taken under the First Loan as indicated
by the ongoing dialogue between the Government and the Bank. These priority areas of the loan were also
directly supported by the second Technical Assistance Loan at both the Central Bank and the Securities
Commission (CVM). The other two components represented major initiatives which in many cases were
beyond the scope of the first operation. Structural reform in these areas had accelerated at the time
preceding the Second Programmatic loan.




                                                     - 10 -

Matrix Part I. Design of the Financial System Access, Depth, Efficiency, and Safety Component

34.      This component comprised all the areas contained in the First Loan. A detailed analysis of the
design of this component, and progress on all reforms, is presented in the ICR I. The comments below
therefore emphasize specific actions in the PFSECAL-II which were new elements, expanding on the
reforms already envisaged in the previous Loan.

Intermediation Efficiency Subcomponent

35.      The Loan's intermediation efficiency component further advanced the development of new
initiatives that would reduce the incidence of the following factors: (i) high real interest rates; (ii) high rates
of taxation; (iii) costly systems for the enforcement of contracts; (iv) limited availability of adequate and
reliable credit reporting and debtor information; and (v) a poor legal framework for the resolution of both
enterprise and bankruptcy and bank failure. Progress on these items was expected to help reduce the high
level of interest rates and spreads in Brazil. While recognizing that the persistent high interest rate spreads
in Brazil were one of its most fundamental structural issues in the financial system, the loan design also
acknowledged that many factors contributed to these levels and spreads, and many of these lay outside the
financial system.     A disaggregation of the causes of interest rate spreads in Brazil, as analyzed in
conjunction with the Central Bank, are detailed in Annex Table A1.2b. The specific measures required
for the approval of the Second Loan, which had a bearing on spreads, were the enhancement of the
information provided by the Credit Risk Center; completion of studies on financial sector taxation
which examined the impact of spreads; and publication of a law for the Cédula de Crédito Bancário ­
a legal measure to enhance creditor rights, thus reducing lending risk and hence intermediation costs.
These core design elements were carried forward directly from the first operation. The areas addressed
emphasize the reduction in the cost of credit, through direct measures such as reductions in taxation, as
well as indirect measures affecting financial overheads, which include an expansion of information and
improved legal infrastructure for credit. Beyond these, additional steps were undertaken by the
government to support a reduction in spreads, through increased financial sector competition and
transparency. These measures were also supported by the Second Loan.

Access to Financial Services Subcomponent

36.      Apart from the indirect impact on poverty reduction arising from higher, sustainable, and more
stable growth supported by the financial sector reforms contained in the Program, the Second Loan
acknowledged new measures adopted by the Brazil government, aimed at directly reducing poverty
through enhanced access to financial services. Specifically, it recognized the work undertaken towards
micro credit expansion under the auspices of the Conselho da Comunidade Solidaria. This included the
development of an Action Plan to remove legal impediments to microfinance, strengthen the regulatory
framework, and promote financing of micro and small scale enterprises together with supporting business
development services. New initiatives to support micro enterprises were launched through SEBRAE, an
organization that provides technical assistance to micro- and small-scale enterprises. It also acknowledged
the huge expansion in the number of outlets for financial services, achieved through the auctioning of the
postal franchise to the private banking sector. These projects were paralleled by the launching of a major
study at the Bank on the access to financial services in Brazil, working in close collaboration with a range
of entities in Brazil.

Banking System Soundness and Safety Net Subcomponent

37.      The First Loan supported bank regulation and supervision reforms which included the development



                                                    - 11 -

of new examination manuals and the initiation of a new bank rating system. The outcome of these actions
are described in ICR I. The actions anticipated for the Second Loan included the introduction of the
manuals in the supervision system, as well as the adoption of the bank rating system by bank
examiners. Beyond these required actions, the second loan also incorporated important new measures
introduced to protect the integrity of the banking system against risks arising from securities trading
as well as derivatives trading. Given the large securities portfolios of the banks, and the turbulence in
financial markets, these additional design features were a timely addition. On the legislative front, the
Government was expected to submit a law to Congress that would better protect supervisors in the
performance of their official duties.

Payments System Soundness Subcomponent

38.      While the First Loan supported the initiation of landmark reforms in Brazil's payments system,
aimed at reducing systemic risk and Central Bank exposure to loss in the settlement of payments, and
ensuring the prudent management of residual risks by private participants in the clearing process, the
Second Loan targeted the implementation and functioning of the new payment system and the issuance
of the guidelines for risk management at private clearing houses. The introduction of the new payment
system was expected to support several components of the program: financial intermediation efficiency ­
through lower processing costs and faster delivery of payment for each transaction; and banking system
safety ­ by instituting a more effective mechanism to monitor the liquidity of individual banks as well as to
control the possibility of intra-day overdraft positions by individual banks, reducing and mitigating the
potential risks of the Central Bank of Brazil.

Deepening of Capital Markets Subcomponent

39.      The First Loan supported Brazil's progress in modernizing corporate governance through the
regulatory framework and through strengthened enforcement mechanisms, including submission to
Congress of the Corporate Law, and the issuance of good governance guidelines by the stock exchange and
the National Development Bank (its investment banking subsidiary ­ BNDESPAR). The Second Loan
supported the landmark passage through Congress of both the revised Corporate law and the CVM
law, as well as the issuance of additional regulations to assure minority shareholder protection, based
upon the foundational new laws. It also supported the preparation of a blueprint for the consolidation
of mutual fund oversight under the CVM, until then divided between the Central Bank and the CVM. In
fact, the consolidation of mutual fund oversight was achieved, through an amendment in the revised CVM
law, and this achievement was acknowledged and supported by the Second PFSECAL. These actions were
appropriately aimed at facilitating the use of the equity markets to raise capital, thus promoting more
private sector investments which would in turn contribute, with some lag, to higher economic growth.

Matrix Part II. Design of the Public Sector Banks Component

40.      At the time of the First Loan, limited Bank dialogue and the unpredictability of progress in this
area had led to its relegation to the broader overall reform financial sector reform framework, outside the
subset of actions supported by programmatic lending. By the time of the Second Loan, federal bank reform
had accelerated rapidly, in part as a consequence of the financial sector reform momentum, which through
the actions supported by the First Loan and the first technical assistance loan. These earlier loans had
focused on the strengthening of banking supervision and the desirability of applying the same standards of
supervision to the public sector banks as those applied to private banks. Bank dialogue in the design of the
Second Loan focused upon the results of comprehensive supervisions undertaken at the public banks, and
their exposure of the condition of these banks, as well as the agreement, reached between the Central Bank



                                                   - 12 -

as supervisor and the Government, to clean up bad assets at these banks. Looking forward, the second
operation emphasized the preparation of measures to increase future efficiency and transparency in the
public banks and to clearly separate on paper their relations with the Government. Thus the action steps
couched within the umbrella of the financial sector program were directed at the restructuring of the
Federal banks accompanied by the development of a strategic plan to bolster the banks' operational
efficiencies and diversify their product offerings.

41.      A second subcomponent of the Public Bank component of this program dealt with the remarkable
achievements regarding the restructuring, recapitalization, and privatization of the state banks. In 2001 and
2002, the pace of state bank privatization was accelerating. After the privatization of BANESPA in
November 2000, there was a long interval before the next privatization, of Paraíba, in November 2001.
Shortly after, another two privatizations were concluded, in December 2001 and January 2002. At the time
of Board submission of PFSECAL-II, four banks were still in federal hands and plans for their
privatization were advanced. It was hoped that the privatization of these four remaining federally held state
banks would be concluded by the end of 2002, before the end of the term of the Cardoso government. As
discussed below, as the momentum for political change increased, this did not occur. However, today in the
fall of 2003, the new administration has resumed plans for sale of two of the four public banks.

Matrix Part III. Design of the Fundamental Financial System Legislation Component

42.      Recognizing progress with the passage of fundamental financial system legislation, core actions
supported by the Second Loan were first, the landmark passage of the Corporate Law and revisions to the
Law for the Securities Commission ­ the CVM Law. In addition, the program recognized the importance of
approving the amendment proposed to Article 192 of the Constitution, which would allow the regulation of
the financial sector through numerous laws, as opposed to the current version which establishes that only
one law will regulate the whole system. This could permit the tackling of a large agenda of legal reforms in
the financial system which had hitherto been blocked because of the requirement of simultaneity. This
component also considered the submission to Congress of a new Central Bank and a financial system law;
which as explained above, would be expected to occur only after the amendment of Article 192 of the
Constitution. Progress in this regard, subsequent to the submission of this Loan, is discussed further below
(see para 76 below). To a large extent, the future sustainability of the reforms in the financial sector will
hinge on the passage of financial system legislation supported by this component. This component was
timed appropriately and based on a realistic assessment by the Bank of its feasibility.

3.4 Revised Components:
43.      As a single tranche adjustment loan, the components of the PFSECAL-II maintained all core
elements of the original loan design. However, as part of the broad Programmatic sequence of loans, as
established in the original matrix for the First Loan, the Second Loan introduced significant new elements
to the initial programmatic matrix dealing with public bank reform and passage of fundamental financial
system legislation. The combined matrix thus became the policy structure for the Second Loan, which was
adopted integrally. Because of the novelty of programmatic lending, the present discussion of revised
components addresses two dimensional aspects of the Loan's components: the individual loan
(PFSECAL-II) and the overall scope of the program; i.e., whether there is any variance in the overall
programmatic reform matrix from the First to the Second Loan. The innovative feature of the PFSECALs
in the case of Brazil was that the programmatic matrix for the First Loan had deemed certain areas to be
beyond the scope of influence of the Bank, and also, too risky to be predictable. But these components were
included in the overall policy reform matrix that comprised the full scope of the financial sector program
adopted by the government. The movement from two matrices at the beginning of the program towards a
single matrix in the second operation is thus considered to be an illustration of the success of the overall


                                                    - 13 -

programmatic approach and the sustained and deepened dialogue, rather than a fundamental revision to the
basic instrument or to specific components.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
44.      Quality at entry is judged to be satisfactory. The PFSECAL-II was preceded by a successful
First Loan in the Programmatic series. This was a positive reflection not just on the First Loan, but on the
Program. Preparation of the Second Loan was undertaken by a team already familiar with the overall
program, due to participation in the First Loan, which buttressed its credibility and permitted speedy
preparation. An unwavering Government commitment to the financial sector reforms despite external
challenges underscores the relevance and high quality of the Loan's components. The introduction of two
key reform areas that had been postponed at the time of the First Loan, the public sector banks and the
fundamental financial system legislation demonstrated that the Government was willing to go beyond the
initial commitments and was secure in handling the more complex policy reforms in these two areas. The
ongoing productive policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank was instrumental in juxtaposing
a myriad of financial sector reforms in an orderly, manageable and properly sequenced matrix of policy
actions.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
45.      This ICR is intended to be an evaluation of the PFSECAL-II only, which in turn is the second in a
series of programmatic adjustment loans that comprise the Program. Evaluation of the outcome for the
PFSECAL-II is judged in the context of the contribution of this loan to the partial fulfillment of overall
Program objectives. At the same time, its evaluation is considered in the context of the already successful
First Loan. In terms of the cumulative effect of the first two loans in the programmatic series, this
evaluation of the Second Loan will place greater emphasis, on the outcome in terms of overall objectives of
the Program. However, the final outcome of the Program is still dependent on additional policy actions
contained in the overall program matrix, which could contribute to a potential future loan, and are expected
to materially affect the achievement of the overall Program objectives. And beyond individual actions, the
success of the program in contributing to the bridging of dialogue across the change of administrations, and
the maintenance of broad reform direction, are key elements in the evaluation of its success.

46.      The outcome of the PFSECAL-II is considered satisfactory. This assessment is based first, on
the successful outcome of the First Loan, which contributed to high quality at entry and established
identifiable success factors which maintained their relevance and effectiveness in the Second Loan; and
second, the significant incremental Program reforms associated with the Second Loan, which formed a
critical mass of outputs that further enhanced the positive outcome of the overall Program and deepened its
relevance for poverty reduction. Thus, the accomplishments of the program are to bring about sustainable,
sound and crisis-dampening economic growth as well as directly aiding poverty alleviation in the
medium-term.

47.      As explained below, the outcome attributed to some of the components has not yet fully
materialized but is expected to do so. In view of the volatile economic and financial conditions which
afflicted Brazil in 2002, originating with the crisis in Argentina and then compounded by the uncertainty
regarding the outcome of the presidential elections, the currency market was buffeted with intense
turbulence, and the curtailment of capital inflows triggered a liquidity crunch in the financial system. The
stress created by these factors took a toll on the economy and prevented the benefits of the reforms



                                                    - 14 -

undertaken by the Program to be fully realized. On the other hand, a counter-factual analysis would likely
conclude that actions taken under the Program were partially instrumental in preventing more serious
consequences for the economy and the financial system, and in maintaining the track of structural reforms
through the turbulence. The Program Document clearly outlined these risks ­ mainly political uncertainty
and adverse macroeconomic circumstances, yet the smooth transition to a new Government which has
stated its support for the overall objectives of the Program bodes well for the successful outcome of the
programmatic loans.      Perhaps least visible but highly significant has been the contribution of this
programmatic loan series to bridging the dialogue with the new administration, and helping to maintain, to
a large extent, the overall direction of reform.

48.      A series of factors, including those identified in the ICR-I, contributed to the satisfactory and
successful outcome of PFSECAL-II. The success of the First Loan facilitated a productive dialogue
regarding reforms in the financial sector. The experience with the First Loan also added to the quality of
Bank inputs, and helped to deepen and extend the inputs from an already high skill level dialogue initiated
with the first loan. The second Technical Assistance Loan was helpful in providing support for the
implementation of numerous reforms. The Bank's contribution in terms of financial resources was partly
instrumental in bridging the external financing gap in a particularly tough year when capital inflows had
dwindled as a result of the uncertainties associated with the economy.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The principal outputs of the PFSECAL-II are summarized below.

I.       lmplementationIOutput of the Financial System Access, Depth, Efficiency and Safety
Component

Access to Financial Services

49.      The Program goals established at the outset called for the completion of a strategy to further
develop availability of financial services to the underserved. In conjunction with key civil society groups,
the Government continued to take important steps to extend the frontier of financial services towards the
under-served population. The principal outputs produced in this area considerably exceeded the Program
requirements, of the formulation of an Access strategy. These include:

    ð Initiationandsuccessfulconclusionofaseriesofstudiesonaccesstomicrofinancebythe
    Comunidade Solidaria; pointing out legal and regulatory obstacles, formulating a strategy to address
    major obstacles, andleading to their reform;
    ð Thelaunchingofnewinitiativestoexpandmicrocreditforsmallenterprises,throughSEBRAE,an
    institutions for support services for small and medium enterprises
    ð Thepassageofaresolutionbroadeningaccesstofinancingbymicrocreditsocieties(SCMs);
    ð Auctioningofpostalfranchisefortheextensionofdeliverynetworkforfinancialservicesto
    smaller areas;
    ð Introductionofnewfinancialinstrumentstofacilitatehousingfinance,andretailsalesforTreasury
    bonds (thus providing safe savings instruments, remunerated at market rates, for smaller savers); and
    ð Measurestoexpandhousingfinance(throughthesaferseparationofconstructioncompanyfinance
    and the finance of investors, and also through easing the use of mortgage loan recovery for housing).




                                                     - 15 -

Intermediation Efficiency

50.      Several initiatives addressed some of the key factors behind the high level of interest rates and of
the spread between deposit and lending rates that were discussed in Section 3.3 above. The Central Bank's
Risk Center was expanded to include information on smaller loans (above R$5,000, or roughly US$ 1,800)
in order to provide more comprehensive debtor information. With respect to the high rates of taxation, and
their impact on the cost of intermediation, two working papers were prepared by the Central Bank on the
incidence of the CPMF on the financial system, and the Congress approved the elimination of the CPMF on
stock market transactions. A provisional law on Cédula de Crédito Bancário was confirmed to have full
legal status, thus providing an alternative mechanism for the enforcement of credit, and reducing creditor
risks and thus, once again, the cost of extending credit. The Central Bank's Risk Center was expanded to
include information on smaller loans in order to provide more comprehensive debtor information, also
contributing to risk reduction and hence also to spread reduction. While not a specific action for the Second
Loan, the Government prepared a stronger draft law for reform of the Bankruptcy code, now widely
discussed between the government and the Central Bank, and expected to be approved by Congress by the
end of this year, 2003.

Banking System Soundness and Safety Net

51.      The Central Bank continued to strengthen banking supervision. Implementation of a major new
off-site supervision progressed according to plan, completed by end-2001, representing a huge increase in
offsite surveillance capacity. The new system allows regulators to run simulations and stress tests for each
bank. The areas targeted for off-site supervision include liquidity, interest rate, and currency risk. Bank's
liquidity positions are monitored on a daily basis, with periodic stress tests to identify any potential
weaknesses. Interest rate and currency risks are evaluated on the basis of standardized Value-At-Risk
models. Any unforeseen changes in a bank's risk profile as captured by the off-site monitoring process is
immediately communicated to that institution's supervisor/examiner who in turn will bring this to the
attention of bank management for eventual resolution. Through early detection of problem areas, this
system serves as an effective early warning mechanism aimed at preventing systemic problems in the
financial sector. During the past year, the off-site monitoring procedure has detected potential problems at
several banks, and follow up action with those banks resulted in a satisfactory resolution to the problems.
Meanwhile, the preparation of detailed examination manuals for use in onsite supervision also progressed
well, with the completion of the manuals, and their availability online in both English and Portugese, by the
summer of 2002. This was funded by the ongoing Technical Assistance Loan to the financial sector.

52.      Another important development has been the introduction of a bank rating system. A combination
of quantitative and qualitative indicators, the CAMEL-S ­ type rating system is an important step in
standardizing the examination process, in establishing a clear rating scale, and thus in arriving at
comparable outcome in terms of the evaluation of each institution. The Central Bank has already performed
trial examinations of four banks in order to test the effectiveness of the new rating system. This system is
expected to be fully operational within one to two years.

53.      Accounting practices for banks have been upgraded, particularly the regulation dealing with the
valuation and disclosure of securities, requiring classification of securities according to their status as
for-trading, held-for-sale, and held-to-maturity. Valuation is to be based on daily marking-to-market of the
securities portfolio and then recognizing the gains or losses, either in the income statement or in the equity
account of the balance sheet, depending on the individual classification of the security. Mark-to-market as
well as netting practices have also been introduced for derivative securities, together with clarified hedge




                                                     - 16 -

accounting, credit derivatives and swap operations.

54.      One area in which progress has been slower than hoped for is with regard to the legal protection of
supervisors. While there was a strong desire on the part of the Central Bank for the approval of such a law,
the political climate was viewed as unfavorable for either its submission or its passage.

55.      The banking system safety net plays a critical role in instilling depositor confidence and in
preventing a systemic crisis. Brazil's deposit insurance fund, Fundo Garantidor de Créditos (FGC), was
established as the institution responsible for the orderly liquidation of those banks intervened by the Central
Bank and deemed insolvent. In an effort to empower FGC with a more proactive role in the bank resolution
process, and to incorporate its participation even before a bank is formally intervened, the Second Loan
supported the preparation of new draft legislation on bank failure resolution and proposals for amending
the FGC statutes in accordance with a more active role in that process. However, the Central Bank has not
yet accepted the proposed changes to the FGC statutes in view of the change in Government and the
appointment of a complete new contingent of seniormost Central Bank staff. The draft new law on bank
failure resolution has been prepared and is ready for submission to Congress, and reflects considerable
contributions from World Bank technical assistance. Changes to FGC's operational plan already effected
encompass a series of programmed reductions in deposit insurance rates from the current 0.30 percent of
deposits down to 0.1 percent in 2004, and then to 0.05 percent in 2005. Its goal is to keep in its reserves the
equivalent of 2 percent of covered bank deposits. Until the Fund reaches its target reserve level in 2006, the
FGC has negotiated a stand-by line of credit of about R$ 2 billion from the five largest banks to cover
unforeseen deficits. These steps are positive, however the reorganization of FGC and its enhanced role in
the safety net remains uncertain, and will depend upon progress towards the passage of the Bank failure
resolution law, which in turn will await the passage of a revised Central Bank law, which is appropriately
deemed to have priority over the Bank failure Resolution law, in the Congressional agenda. Additional
discussion concerning the structure of FGC as a bank-run insurance mechanism can be found in ICR-I.

Payments System Component

56.      One of the more successful initiatives under the current program was the launching of the new Real
Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) Payment System at the Central Bank, in April 2002. In addition, the
Central Bank issued new guidelines regarding the clearing houses and settlement of securities on the CETIP
system. The utilization of the RTGS system has fully met all expectations during the first year of operation.
Private clearing houses have adopted new regulations aimed at enhancing the efficiency of the financial
system.

Deepening of Capital Markets

57.      Capital market reforms built on the success of the First Loan, with the passage through Congress
of the revised Corporate Law. Some of the key changes in the reform of the Corporation Law included the
following:

    ð Non-controllingshareholdersweregrantedtherighttoelecttwomembersoftheboardofdirectors;
    ð Boardmemberselectedbynon-controllingshareholdershavevetopowersoverthechoiceof
    independent auditor;
    ð Restorationoftag-alongrightsintheeventofasaleofcorporatecontrol;and
    ð Mandatoryofferat"fairvalue"indelistingorwheneveracquisitionsbycontrollingshareholders
    impose restraints on liquidity.




                                                     - 17 -

58.     The new CVM law conferred enhanced powers on the CVM and increased its operational
independence. Importantly, the head of CVM was granted a secure five year tenure, independent of the
government. Based upon its new mandate and in accordance with the provisions of the revised corporate
law, CVM issued new instructions and resolutions concerning the disclosure of material information by
corporations. Another new Resolution granted minority shareholders the right to participate in tender offers
for controlling acquisitions, including more effective procedures to ensure fair prices in the valuation
process. Finally, outside the CVM, the SPC, or supervisory agency for closed-end pension funds, also
strengthened governance processes through the passage of a resolution which requires the disclosure of
voting decisions on pension fund Boards.

59.     The merger of mutual fund responsibilities under CVM has been a landmark step towards the
creation of a more consistent approach to regulation of the industry. Previously, fixed income funds had
been regulated by the Central Bank, while equity funds had been regulated by CVM; now both types of
funds fall under the scrutiny of CVM. As may be imagined, the former separation was not based on a very
meaningful distinction in some cases, as some funds could hold both kinds of securities, moreover,
differences in provisions for different types of securities led to opportunities for arbitrage across financial
instruments. Mutual funds and pension funds have also been subjected to standard rules concerning the
marking-to-market of their securities portfolio, based on whether the securities are classified as trading,
held-for-sale, or held-to-maturity. In the past, there had been numerous instances where fund managers
were not applying the classification of the individual securities on a consistent basis. On the other hand, the
hoped for consolidation of the regulatory agencies for the pension fund industry is still pending, and the
issue now appears to be losing prominence, as other major pension and social security reforms take the
forefront of attention in 2003.

From Outputs to Outcomes: Achievement of Objectives of the Financial System Access, Depth,
Efficiency and Safety Component

60.     The outcome of the financial system access, depth, efficiency and safety net component has been
conducive to the medium-term goals of underpinning economic growth, reducing poverty, and preventing
future crises in the financial system. The principal outcomes in this component included:

    ð Throughastrongerregulatoryframework,amoreproactivebankingsupervisoryrole,better
    information on financial transactions, and a more responsive safety net mechanism, and by major
    reforms in the payments system, the program has contributed to greater resilience, soundness and
    safety of the financial system, and thus to greater medium-term growth and poverty reduction.
    ð Throughsupporttoinitiativesaimedatreducingthelevelofinterestratesandspreadsbetween
    deposit and lending rates, the program has contributed to greater efficiency of financial
    intermediation, which in the medium-term would contribute to a lower cost of capital, and through
    increased investment, to a higher rate of economic growth.
    ð ThepassageoftheCorporateLaw,theCVMlawandothercapitalmarketsreformscontributeto
    an enhanced role for the regulator, greater protection for investors especially minority investors, and
    greater transparency in the market, which in the medium-term will encourage greater investment in
    securities markets by both domestic and foreign minority investors. Parallel reforms in investment
    fund regulations and the valuation of securities reinforce market attractiveness for investors.
    ð Thebroadeningofaccesstofinancialservicesbysupportinginitiativestoexpandthenumbersof
    financial service outlets, improve the regulatory framework for microfinance, and increase the
    availability of savings instruments is expected to directly address issues related to poverty reduction.




                                                     - 18 -

Comments: Achievements and outcomes of the Financial system safety and soundness component

61.      The impact of the program on the banking system safety and soundness has been very positive. The
enhanced on-site and off-site supervisory practices have diminished the likelihood of systemic problems.
Developments during 2002 actually proved to be a valuable stress test of the new supervisory standards.
The sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate accompanied by a curtailment of capital inflows and rising
interest rates that were experienced last year could be considered as a severe stress test for currency,
liquidity, and interest rate risks. The exchange rate increased by 53 percent during the year, while total net
capital inflows fell from US$27.9 billion in 2001 to US$12.0 billion in 2002. Despite the extreme volatility
in the financial markets, the banking system weathered the storm well. The positive results can be
attributed to the enhanced safety standards applied by bank managers as well as regulators, which were
supported by the Program. The counter-factual scenario, what would have happened in the absence of these
reforms, based on previous experiences with bank problems during the mid-1980s and then again during
the mid-1990s, would indicate that some systemic problems would have been encountered as a result of the
financial turbulence experienced in 2002. Thus the absence of systemic problems or of a failure of
individual banks during last year's financial market turmoil can be considered as a successful outcome of
this program.

62.      While the financial system safety and soundness component helped avert any systemic crisis, it has
not yet had a tangible impact on performance, at least for the private banking system. The principal
financial indicators for the private banking system show major improvement in profitability, with an
average return on equity of 27.3 percent during 2001-2002, up from an average of 18 percent during
1996-2000. Bank lending also shows a modest improvement, with an average loan to assets ratio of 31.8
percent, up from 28.3 percent for the two corresponding periods. On the other hand, a higher loan to
deposit ratio could be an indication of diminishing liquidity levels, and good performance may also be
partly due to rents commanded by the large private banks which dominate the market. As stated earlier in
this report, with a return to more stable macroeconomic conditions it may be possible to identify more
specific outcomes in terms of the financial performance of the banking system.

Comments: Achievement of the Financial system efficiency component

63.      One of the primary goals of the financial efficiency component was to bring down the level of
interest rates as well as the spread between deposit and lending rates, which would then be expected to
encourage savings and investment and thus higher economic growth. Events in the second half of 2002,
which resulted in the dramatic depreciation of the Real and in liquidity shocks to the system put a
temporary halt to the benefits regarding the narrowing of the spread that had accrued since the inception of
the Program. Nevertheless, as revealed by figures on trends in interest rates and spreads (see Annex Figures
A1.1a, A1.1b; A1.2a and A1.2b), spreads have once again begun to narrow, from mid 2003. This
illustrates both the difficulty of trying to assess the program impact due to the impact of macroeconomic
factors on these variables, but also, the underlying direction of policy and its resilience, in the direction of
long term spread reduction .

64.      There have also been some significant positive developments in terms of the individual components
that comprise the spread. Focusing the analysis on those factors that are directly linked to the reforms
supported by this Program, the cumulative outcome of the First and Second loans can be regarded as
favorable with respect to financial system efficiency. A Central Bank study on interest rate spreads, which
was one of the initiatives supported by the Program, showed evidence of positive developments between
1999 and 2002 (see endnote).     7  According to this study, the interest rate spread, expressed as a monthly



                                                      - 19 -

rate, had declined from 3.58 percent in February 1999, to 2.77 percent in August 2002. The study split the
spread into five segments: net profit margin, which increased from 1.03 percent to 1.16 percent, also from
February 1999 to February 2003; income taxes, which increased from 0.51 percent to 0.6 percent; indirect
taxes, which declined from 0.41 percent to 0.23 percent; operational expenses, which also declined from
0.79 percent to 0.36 percent; and loan losses, which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.47 percent. These
figures indicate significant progress in terms of a lower contribution from indirect taxes, operational costs,
and loan losses to the overall spread. With respect to the impact of loan losses, passage of the revised
bankruptcy law is expected to improve creditors' chances of recovering their exposure in the case of firms
that file for bankruptcy, and thus to further narrow this component of the spread. However, greater
competition in the banking system would also help to narrow spreads.

65.      One factor that has limited the extent of the narrowing of the spreads has been the exceedingly high
reserve requirement rates. However, these have been driven by the specific apparatus of monetary policy
and by the Central Bank's limited capacity to engage in open market operations, during a period of
currency turmoil. The reserve requirement rates on demand deposits had been reduced from 75 percent in
1999 to 45 percent in 2002, but after last year's credit crunch, the Central Bank had to increase in the
reserve requirement rate to 60 percent in late 2002. A similar trend was noted in the case of the reserve
requirement rate for time deposits. This phenomenon points to the importance of macroeconomic stability
in determining the magnitude of interest rate spreads. Most recently, in August 2003, reserve requirements
were once again brought down to pre-crisis levels, by a fifteen percentage point cut, signaling again the
clear indication of the government to reduce this implicit tax, as macroeconomic conditions permit.

Comments: Achievements of the Capital Markets Deepening component

66.      Passage of the Corporate law and the reform of the CVM law, made it possible to ascend to a
noticeably higher standard in terms of the transparency of capital market transactions, and thus to
encourage more companies to use the capital markets for their long-term financing needs and to induce
greater investor interest in the markets. Protection of minority shareholders will act as a stimulus for
mutual and pension funds to expand their portfolio holdings. Good governance standards have been
positively accepted by market participants. For example, since 2002, 35 companies listed in the exchange
have adopted tag-along rights for minority shareholders. The Novo Mercado instituted by the securities
exchange (BOVESPA) constitutes a separate segment for companies that meet certain criteria regarding
good governance practices. Since this market segment is likely to be more attractive to investors, with
higher market valuations and protection of minority shareholder rights, other firms already registered in the
exchange are expected to gradually apply for a Novo Mercado listing. As shown in Annex Table A1.4 and
Annex Figure A1.4c, the number of companies listed in the Novo Mercado has increased, and several
companies now report adherence to level 1, and some 3 companies also to Level 2 corporate governance.
Moreover, market performance indicators for the good governance firms have remained consistently above,
if closely correlated to, the rest of the market.

67.      While the initial impact has been favorable, the medium-term objective of stronger economic
growth supported by a deepening of the capital markets has not yet materialized. One of the reasons for the
delay in the favorable response has been the turmoil in the financial markets last year. For the past twelve
months new equity issues have been at a standstill. But as the new Government settles in, and the economy
continues to recover, there will be renewed interest in the equity market from issuers and investors, both
domestic and foreign, doubtless with increasing preference for the Novo Mercado. As shown in Annex
Figures A1.4b and c, there has already been a rebounding in the domestic stock market, with the restoration




                                                     - 20 -

of confidence in Brazil, as evidenced in reduced bond spreads.

Comments on Part II: Implementation I Output of Public Sector Banks Component

68.      The Second Loan introduced specific actions to support the reform of the public sector banks, an
important element of the program that had been postponed at the time of the First Loan. The actions
supported by the Second Loan were aimed at increasing the efficiency and transparency of public banks
and to clearly separate their relationship with the Government. As part of the first phase of federal bank
restructuring, the government acknowledged bad assets held by these institutions, and agreed to absorb past
losses, based upon a future program of establishing improved internal controls and greater transparency in
government mandated services. This process included a thorough review and cleansing of the balance
sheets of the banks. All financing through the special purpose development funds was to be evaluated based
on the credit risk of such loans. Other credit guarantees and implicit subsidies were also to be eliminated.
The second phase called for the preparation of a blueprint for a time-bound and monitorable action plans
for future reforms aimed at consolidating the benefits of financial restructuring, including recapitalization
of the banks. The business plans addressed the need for diversification, separation of business functions
related to the government from other activities, improvement of MIS, and buttressing internal controls and
procedures.

69.      The reform of the state-owned banks was a second important component that had evolved from a
multidimensional program already applied to 44 state banks. Following the sale of BANESPA in
November 2000, three additional state banks, PARAIBAN (2001), BEG (2001), BEA (2002), were also
privatized, thus leaving four banks still under `federalized' state ownership. Sale of the remaining banks
would be considered as part of the actions taken for a further eventual loan under this program.

Achievements and Outcome of the Public Sector Banks Component

70.      At the time of this review, public banks have been complying with prudential norms as any private
sector bank and are subject to the same standards of banking supervision. However, in terms of addressing
the action plan for the future, progress so far has been overshadowed by the changes not only in the
government and in the financial system but also in the federal banks themselves, where all key senior
appointments are politically determined. Between January and August 2003, most such personnel changes
had been effected. Discussions suggested that some changes intended to improve efficiency and
transparency, as well as to improve internal governance, had been instituted at Banco do Brasil, although
the pace of progress is slow.

71.      The outcome of the public sector banks component was broadly consistent with the objective of
sustainable economic growth based on a sound platform for financial intermediation by the public sector.
The principal outcomes in this component include:

    ð An increase in the efficiency and transparency of public banks, through which the program has
    contributed to an improvement in the performance of the financial system, in the safety and soundness
    of the system, and an improvement in the quality of the loan portfolio.

    ð Theextensionofprivatizationofstate-ownedpublicbankshasalsocontributedtogreater
    efficiency by transferring the ownership of these banks to private sector investors who have brought
    increased capital and introduced more up-to-date technologies in the delivery of financial services, and
    instituted standards of efficiency and performance of the private sector.



                                                    - 21 -

72.      It is still early to discern any trend impact of public bank reforms on efficiency and profitability.
Returns on equity reached 16.8 percent last year, the highest rate since 1995 (see Annex Table A1.2). On
the other hand, the loan-to-asset ratio has fallen to a low average of 25.9 percent during 2001-2002, from
38.2 percent during 1996-2000. In view of the relatively poor quality of the public banks' loan portfolios,
prior to restructuring, this reduction in the share of loans to assets reflects the cleaning up of the bad loans
and poor assets. However, one consequence is a squeeze on liquidity, at one major federal bank. It is hoped
that with the new strategic plans for these institutions, new lending activity will focus on economically
viable projects, and thus enhance the banks' efficiency. Whether there will be a sustained and fundamental
change in government strategy towards these institutions remains to be seen. Especially in view of the
emphasis of the new government on social priorities, and the tendency to view public banks as vehicles for
the implementation of such policies, it is possible that the implementation of changes in specialized social
mandates may be slow to be effected.

III.     Implementation and Output of the Fundamental Financial System Legislation Component

73.      The Second Loan recognized significant progress achieved with the passage of the Corporate Law
and revisions to the CVM Law for the Securities Commission (CVM). In addition, the program recognized
the importance of the amendment to Article 192 of the Constitution, which would permit the regulation of
the financial system through a series of complementary laws. Partial passage of the amendment had been
achieved through the Senate, which has cleared the amendment, and the House of Deputies has approved
the measure in a first vote. Once approved, it would permit the submission of a new law on the
independence of the Central Bank, as well as other laws, refining the system of bank failure resolution,
modifying the basic financial systems law, etc. Thus, passage of the amendment to Article 192 would lead
the way to fundamental changes in financial system legislation that will increase safety and efficiency and
promote crisis-free growth of the economy.

Achievements and Outcome of the Fundamental Financial System Legislation Component

74.      The passage of an important piece of legislation, the Corporate Law, is expected to deepen capital
markets by attracting greater investor interest, in turn supporting economic growth. Impacts already
witnessed include especially the benefits of stability to the markets from a stable regulator. There has been
a steady course of direction maintained at the CVM, despite the change in government, and an expanded
and rationalized role of the CVM in areas of market surveillance (notably to include both debt and equity
mutual funds). There has also been an increase in the interest of corporations in the `good governance'
segment of the market, and clear track records of the higher valuation of such companies (see Annex Figure
A1.4a). Also, parallel new regulations have been issued by the CVM, based on the framework of the new
laws, in information disclosure and investor protection, which have served to implement in practice greater
market transparency and fiduciary responsibility. Meanwhile, although the number of listed companies has
continued to decline, this shows other factors at work ­ until mid 2002, taxes on stock transactions, and
since then, until mid-2003, turmoil in markets, and `flight to safety' and to liquidity, in overseas markets. In
view of these unforeseen events, on balance, the outcome of this component is deemed to be fully
satisfactory.

75.      As discussed in a previous section, passage of the amendment to Article 192 of the Constitution
was considered uncertain during the preparation of the Second Loan, and thus, its passage would have
represented a major unexpected windfall from a policy viewpoint. Passage of the amendment would have
unblocked the development of fundamental financial sector legislation. At that juncture, in view of the
progress made in both the Senate, which has already approved the amendment, and the House, which has


                                                     - 22 -

partially approved it, it was considered a broadly expected action under the overall program, although not
necessarily for the second operation itself. Passage of the amendment could constitute an important element
for a subsequent programmatic loan in this series. However, a successful outcome in terms of fundamental
financial system legislation would depend on the actual passage of the amendment and follow up actions in
terms of additional financial sector legislation dealing with the Central Bank law and other legal reforms
expected to follow. Therefore, in the context of the programmatic series, which would be expected to
include a future loan, conditioned on passage of these key pieces of legislation, this component would then
result in a successful outcome.

76.      As events have shown, despite market turmoil in the latter half of 2002, and the new administration
in both the government and key areas of the financial system, by mid-2003, the proposed constitutional
amendment was finally passed (Amendment No. 40 of May 29th, 2003). Work was proceeding in parallel,
in terms of the submission to Congress of a new Central Bank law. However, the new administration of the
Central Bank has decided, in lieu of a `minimalist' new law for Central Bank independence, to explore in
greater depth other relevant aspects of independent Central Banks. These include areas such as governance,
the role and responsibility of boards and senior personnel, appointment of key executives as well as Board
members, budgetary autonomy, the pricing of Central Bank services, and the relation of the Central Bank
to the government, etc. Since the spring of 2003, following consultations with the new heads of the Brazil
Central Bank, the World Bank, working with the Bank of International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland,
offered its assistance to the government in this area and appreciates the need for a more comprehensive
underpinning of Central Bank independence in the proposed new legislation. Although the submission of a
revised new law was considered imminent in the summer of 2003, it has now been deferred due to two
principal reasons; first, an overburdening of the legislative agenda, with two major pending economic
reforms in the areas of public pension reform as well as tax reform, under ongoing debate, and second,
heightened public scrutiny of monetary policy and interest rates, and the belief of the government that
unless rates are reduced substantially, it would be difficult to credibly propose and gain support for a
proposal for autonomy. As mentioned above, the Central Bank has begun to aggressively lower interest
rates over the last two months, and at present, the submission of a new Central Bank law is still hoped for
towards the end of calendar year 2003 or early in calendar year 2004.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
77.      As with the First Loan, the institutional development impact of PFSECAL-II -is deemed to be
substantial based on the output of the three major components of financial system access, deepening,
efficiency and safety; the reform of the public sector banks; and the passage of financial system legislation.
The institutional development impact is reflected in the passage of key legislation, implementation of
important regulations, restructuring of financial institutions; and the empowering of the principal financial
system regulators. Through the enhanced institutional framework, it is expected that the financial sector
will become more efficient, and hence will contribute to sustainable growth and poverty reduction in the
medium-term. At the same time, it must be recognized in this context that the Technical Assistance Loans,
which preceded and paralleled the adjustment loans, also contributed to institutional building. As indicated
in the ICR-I, the highest rating could be assigned to the reinforcement of the regulatory capacity of both the



                                                    - 23 -

Central Bank and CVM.

78.      With respect to the first major component, all of the reform areas were strongly supportive of
institutional development. The increased access to financial services is expected to provide a more equitable
platform for participation in the financial system. The deepening of the capital markets, particularly the
development of the Novo Mercado, also contributes to a level playing field for all market participants. The
increase in efficiency through lower interest rate spreads, which are expected to further narrow with more
stable macroeconomic conditions, has a positive impact on institutional development. And the financial
system safety initiatives have contributed to institutional strengthening in two dimensions: first, through a
strengthening of the institutional capacity of the financial system regulators; and second, through an
enhanced capacity to intermediate financial resources.

79.      The reform of the public banks was a noteworthy aspect of institutional development. By
promoting higher supervisory standards, better accountability and greater transparency in the organization
and operation of these institutions, the Program supported by the Second Loan contributed to greater
uniformity between the public and private sector financial intermediaries. On the other hand, the pending
agenda concerning their future efficiency increases remains. Finally, regarding the passage of fundamental
financial legislation in terms of the Constitutional Amendment, has finally occurred, thus fulfilling the
expectations of the Second Programmatic loan, although so far subsequent submission of individual
legislative modifications have yet to be effected. Nevertheless, the achievement of Constitutional reform,
unblocking the way for future institutional change, is deemed to be a significant contribution to institutional
development, and is expected to play a key role in subsequent programmatic loan.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
80.      More substantially than with the First Loan, external factors were instrumental in affecting the
implementation and outcome of the Second Loan, and as a consequence, the program as a whole. The
slowdown in global demand due to events in the USA, the crisis in Argentina and Uruguay, beginning in the
latter part of 2001, and the domestic energy crisis, were felt in Brazil, primarily in the currency market as
nervous investors began to pull their investments out of emerging markets, including Brazil. This trend was
aggravated by political uncertainties regarding the outcome of the end-2002 presidential elections and a
possible change in the course of economic policies. By the middle of last year, the currency began to take a
heavy toll as market turbulence intensified. A credit crunch ensued, and interest rates had to be raised to
keep inflation pass through from the currency depreciation in check, thus affecting immediate loan outputs,
if nor medium term programmatic outcomes, of the intermediation efficiency component.

81.      The uncertainty over the electoral process also applied to the outcome of the scheduled elections.
As it became apparent that power would swing towards political parties in opposition to the former
Cardoso administration, there was growing market unease, as well as unease within the administrative
apparatus, about changes in economic policy. However, it became apparent fairly soon that the new
administration intended to maintain considerable continuity with former macroeconomic policies, endorsed
by an IMF prgogram, and market confidence was restored. In parallel, the likelihood of lasting and
sustainable outcomes of the Financial Sector reform program also increased.

82.      Despite the challenges posed by both the external and internal factors, and a major change in
administration, strong Government commitment has maintained the reform program on course. While some
pieces of legislation such as the amendment to Article 192 of the Constitution, and the bankruptcy law have



                                                     - 24 -

been postponed to a future programmatic loan, this is within the expectations of the overall program as
envisaged at the time of the Second Loan. The new Government which took office in January 2003, has
confirmed its commitment to the thrust of the financial sector reform program. This supports the notion
that the above-mentioned external factors are expected to have only a temporary impact on the
implementation and outcome of the program.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
83.      The contributing factors to the success of the Second Loan subject to Government control are
partly those already identified in the ICR-I. The Government's commitment to the reform process in the
financial sector was pivotal to the outcome of the Program. Strong Government ownership of the Program
led to the adoption of public sector banks reform as a key component of the Second Loan, going beyond the
Bank's initial expectations in this area. Even with the uncertainties associated with the electoral outcome in
2002, the Government continued to press for passage of key financial system legislation, and thus the
progress made towards the amendment to Article 192 of the Constitution prior to Board presentation of the
Second Loan was instrumental in gaining the support of the new administration in completing the
legislative process for approval of the amendment.

84.      The credibility engendered by the Government's assiduous management of fiscal and monetary
policies and particularly the solid primary surplus (set at 4.25 percent of GDP) laid a solid foundation for
reforms of the financial sector and thus to the outcome of the Loan. Clearly, external financial pressures
combined with political uncertainties took a toll on the economy in 2002. The depreciation of the Real and
the consequent inflationary pressures was met with greater efforts on the part of the Government to contain
the fiscal deficits. A smooth transition to a new administration, backed by a $30 billion IMF program,
also helped to nurture confidence on the part of the international financial community and thus to the
renewal of capital inflows that helped to ease the intense liquidity pressures experienced by the banking
system last year.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
85.      As with the First Loan, the Central Bank, which was the key implementing agency, was strongly
committed to the objectives of the Second Loan, and maintained its unwavering support for the overall
program. The highly successful inflation targeting approach to monetary policy was instrumental in
minimizing the inflationary impact from the depreciation of the currency. In view of the external pressures
experienced during 2002, the Central Bank was also quick to implement the new measures to reinforce
banking supervision ­ particularly off-site supervision, which proved an effective tool in monitoring the
vulnerability of individual institutions to higher levels of risk in the financial system. At the same time, the
implementation of the new electronic payments system at the Central Bank was helpful in providing a
real-time measure of liquidity as well as an early warning signal of potential systemic problems.

86.      The capital markets implementing agency, CVM, assumed a more instrumental role in the Second
Loan through its initiatives to deepen the scope of the capital markets. Swift progress made with the
passage of implementing regulations, soon after the passage of the CVM and revised Corporate Laws, are
witness to this. Smooth implementation of the program as outlined in the policy matrix was indicative of
the close dialogue between the implementing agencies and the Bank. A second Technical Assistance Loan
has provided key institutional support to reinforce CVM's regulatory capacities. Close consultation with
the Bank remains, in key areas of CVMs reforma agenda, in particular, the enhanced market surveillance
component, and in the area of merged new regulations for mutual funds.




                                                     - 25 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
87.      Not applicable. However see Annex 2 for the role of the present operation overall financing
requirements.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
88.      As explained in the ICR-I, this evaluation considers two aspects of sustainability: first the
sustainability of the benefits of the Second Loan; and second, the synergistic impact of this Loan on the
sustainability of the Program. In this context, the sustainability of the reforms achieved under the
PFSECAL-II is judged to be very likely, so is the sustainability of the overall Program.

89.      Even with the manifestation of the principal risk factors that had been identified at the time of Loan
design, the events associated with the external financial shocks and the uncertainties associated with the
outcome of the presidential elections, the Program remained on course despite the severity of these stress
factors. While unfavorable economic conditions delayed the outcome from some of the Loan components,
the general direction of the impact has not wavered. The resolute continuity of the Program with the
transition to a new Government argues strongly in favor of its sustainability. The low degree of reversibility
of many reforms achieved further supports the continued maintenance of the Program benefits.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
90.      Not applicable.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
91.      As explained in the ICR-I, the identification of the overall Program matrix showed sound judgment
regarding relevance, and the principal challenges facing the financial sector. The Second Loan was
designed within the scope of the overall program matrix of government sectoral reform, albeit with a major
expansion beyond the subset of the Bank-supported matrix of the First Loan. While complex, it was
compatible with the borrower's capacity.


7.2 Supervision:
92.      Both the First and Second Loans were single tranche operations. However, the programmatic
approach does require close supervision of the evolution of program elements reflected in each of the loans.
In this regard, the proximity of the Second Loan to the First was made possible by close supervision of
financial sector developments and an ongoing dialogue with the borrower. Today, close supervision and
partnership continues, going forward in all Program areas.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
93.      Overall Bank performance is deemed to be satisfactory. In general the Second Loan was well
designed and consistent with the Bank's country strategy. The overall design of the Program has already
been addressed in the ICR-I.




                                                     - 26 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
94.      As mentioned in ICR-I, the commitment of the Government in supporting the programmatic
framework and in adhering to a firm policy regarding macroeconomic stability were instrumental in the
quality of the Program. The Government maintained a very positive policy dialogue with the Bank during
the preparation of the Second Loan.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
95.      Also as mentioned in the ICR-I, both the Government and the implementing agencies were highly
committed to the overall Program. The actions taken for each loan were thus congruent with a strong
public policy support for reforms of the financial sector.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
96.      The performance of both implementing agencies, the Central Bank and CVM were highly
satisfactory, this echoes the evaluation of ICR-I.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
97.      After consideration of the above-mentioned factors and of the outcome of the Loan, the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated as highly satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

98.      The principal lessons derived from the outcome of the Second Loan, including those that were also
applicable to the First Loan, include the following:

    ð Programmatic lending provides the Bank with more flexibility in supporting the
    Government's reform agenda, and also permits the building of a genuine partnership and
    dialogue (PFSECAL-I). The public sector banks component was a key innovation in the design of the
    Second Loan. By the time of the Second Loan design, federal bank reform had accelerated rapidly, and
    the Bank had strengthened its dialogue with the Central Bank and was able to include detailed
    discussions on these institutions.

    ð The success of one Loan in a Programmatic series enhances the probability of success of a
    subsequent loan. In view of the highly successful experience with the First Loan, there was a critical
    mass of success factors on which to build the Second Loan guided by a well-designed Program matrix.
    The continuity of key representatives of the Government and the Bank in both loans was instrumental
    in the quality of the outcome.

    ð With respect to the design of Programmatic Lending, the flexibility in postponing policy
    actions at the time of the First Loan to subsequent operations in the series, particularly in the case
    where the timing of the reforms is difficult to predict, does not detract from the substance of
    reforms, but rather increases the likelihood of a successful eventual outcome when they are finally
    implemented. The introduction of the public sector bank reform component in the Second Loan
    enhanced the effectiveness of the Program. At the same time, the expectation that the amendment to
    Article 192 of the Constitution would be approved, and its later actual approval, bodes well for a



                                                    - 27 -

    successful future loan in the series.

    ð Strong Government commitment and ownership of the Program is a key ingredient for
    success (PFSECAL-I). In the midst of the serious external financial pressures which were
    compounded by the uncertainty over the outcome of the presidential elections in October 2002, the
    Government was unwavering in its commitment to the Program. By adhering to the principal reforms
    outlined for the Second Loan, despite the strong pressures to delay these measures, the outcome, while
    not as effective as expected due to the external factors, could be considered highly effective in the sense
    that having adopted the reforms prevented a much worse outcome as a result of those negative factors.
    The successful outcome of the public banks reform component is also attributed to the strong
    Government ownership of this component.

    ð Accompanying technical assistance was a key element in building dialogue and also in the
    implementation of several areas of reform (PFSECAL-I). The second Technical Assistance Loan
    broadened its support to the Central Bank and to CVM, thus helping to reinforce the technical aspects
    of the relevant reforms.

    ð The objective of poverty reduction, which was a goal of this Program can be supported
    through measures directly addressing access. This was illustrated by the design differences
    between PFSECAL-I and PFSECAL-II, and the ensuing further enrichment of dialogue in this
    area. The programmatic approach is best suited to the implementation of policy reform and the
    deepening of the knowledge of strategic choices. If however the goal is to reduce poverty in the very
    short-run, then a stand-alone project with a direct poverty reduction strategy, such as support to
    microfinance, would have been more appropriate. However the eventual impact of the policy-based
    approach can be substantially wider and also help ensure that good practice is generalized.

    ð The Bank has to be sensitive to the political pendulum when designing projects with
    significant legislative components. The Bank had appropriately flagged the political uncertainties
    associated with the presidential elections in October 2002. In fact the passage of some financial system
    legislation was not identified as a condition for the Second Loan due to the difficulty in predicting the
    outcome of the electoral process. Nevertheless, the Bank may want to consider a more explicit analysis
    of the political factors during the design stage of a project. More quantitative indicators on political
    trends as well as additional details in terms of the process required for passage of each piece of
    legislation would be helpful.

    ð Finally, programmatic lending can be a valuable vehicle for sustaining dialogue across
    administrations and maintaining the overall momentum of reform. One of the major contributions
    of the present loan has been the ease with which dialogue on a broad spectrum of financial sector
    policy issues has been resumed and sustained with the new administration, and which has also helped
    to maintain continuity, in terms of overall policy direction.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1     Partner Comments ­ Central Bank of Brazil

Central Bank's Mission

99.     The Central Bank, as part of its mission to preserve the purchasing power of the Reais, has been
advancing in the implementation of an inflation targeting approach to monetary policy by means of



                                                    - 28 -

improving its analytical tools, expanding the analytical models, and improving the quality of the economic
information used in making policy decisions. That effort includes the search for greater transparency in its
actions while expanding society's understanding of the Brazilian economy and the role of economic
policies.

100.     At the same time, the Central Bank has adopted a number of initiatives to improve its performance,
mainly through the development of a new strategic vision of the financial system and through the
strengthening of its role in banking supervision.

101.     These initiatives have been instrumental in the strengthening of the national financial system and
are evident in the effectiveness of policy reforms aimed at the safety and efficiency of the financial sector. It
is important to note that significant progress was achieved in increasing the efficiency of financial
intermediation and in expanding the access to financial services; improving the health of the banking system
and its safety net; and in strengthening the Brazilian capital markets.

Support of the Reforms by the International Financial Agencies

102.     The reforms of the financial sector which have been implemented for some time by the Brazilian
Government have received ample support from the international financial agencies. The second financial
sector adjustment loan for US$400 million is the result of a close working relationship with the World
Bank. The program negotiated with that institution has as its principal objective to support the
Government's initiatives in the modernization of the financial sector, including actions in the following
areas:

    ð Efficiencyinfinancialintermediationandaccesstobankingservices;
    ð Safetyandsoundnessofthefinancialsystem;
    ð Reformofthepaymentssystem;and
    ð Reformofthepublicsectorbanks.

103.     As part of the strategy to transform the financial system, the actions under the program were
directed at the implementation of a new payments system, the development of new information systems to
improve off-site supervision, the expansion of the operations of the Credit Risk Center, development of a
bank rating system to be used by banking regulators, and the introduction of new bank examination
manuals.

Sustainability of the Program and Bank and Borrower Performance

104.     The Second Loan of the World Bank, just as the First Loan, was considered a success, and in our
view, it has achieved its objectives. The collaboration with the World Bank has been very beneficial and the
positive results achieved support the continuity of the lending program with additional resources to support
the process of modernization of the Financial System.

Lessons Learned

105.     The success of this program, developed jointly with the World Bank, can be attributed to various
factors, some of which are difficult to describe. Nevertheless, in the case of this Loan we can point to the
close working relationship and the technical capacity of the individuals associated with the Program as an
important factor in its success. Based on a close dialogue between the Government and the Bank it was
possible to focus on specific objectives that were closely linked to the expected outcome of the Loan /


                                                     - 29 -

Program.

106.     There is no doubt that this second financial sector structural adjustment loan, just as the first loan
was amply justified by the results and that it was of great benefit to the Central Bank ­ which benefited in
terms of improved effectiveness of its objectives ­ as well as civil society, but more specifically, the users
of the financial system ­ both the banking system and the capital markets, in terms of greater confidence
and security in the financial system ­ which are essential elements for the stability of the Brazilian
economy.

9.2      Partner Comments ­ CVM (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários do Brasil)

CVM's Mission

107.     The Securities Commission (CVM) is a federal agency associated with the Ministry of Finance. It
was created on December 7, 1976 by Law 6385, and was empowered to regulate and supervise the
activities of all participants in the securities markets, and to enforce all rules and regulations.

108.     In the fulfillment of its responsibilities, CVM seeks to ensure the transparency and the reliability of
all information that is disclosed in the market, such as the registration of new issues of securities, as well as
rigorous investigations of possible illicit activities, among which we can mention stock market
manipulation, inappropriate activities by controlling shareholders, and the use of insider information.

109.     In its present stage of development the Brazilian capital markets have not yet reached the level of
capitalization as those markets in the more advanced economies. As a consequence it is necessary to
introduce measures to stimulate the demand for financial instruments in the capital markets, while at the
same time develop a more efficient regulatory infrastructure, whose focus is on the disclosure of the highest
quality of information as well as the transparency of transactions in those markets.

Support of the Reforms by the International Financial Agencies

110.     The Government of Brazil, in order to more effectively exercise its powers, has been implementing
a reform program for the financial sector which has received the support of the international financial
agencies, notably the World Bank, through its participation under the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
of US$400 million.

111.     In reference to the markets under the supervision of CVM, the program negotiated with the World
Bank supports measures which we consider relevant for the development of the markets, in order to
generate greater demand for securities by investors, both domestic and foreign, as much as the contribution
to the development of an efficient regulatory framework with emphasis on information disclosure and its
transparency.

112.     In this context, it is possible to point to some advances in the development of the Brazilian capital
markets as a result of Laws number 10.303/01 and 10.411/02, and Decree number 3.295/01, which
amended Laws number 6.385/76 and 6.404/76, which govern the securities markets and corporations,
respectively. These norms, which are form part of the policies to stimulate the development of the Brazilian
securities market, seek to strengthen the institutional aspects of CVM, by providing incentives for
companies to adopt good governance practices and giving greater attention to illicit market activities
through the establishment of more severe penalties for those convicted of engaging in such behavior.




                                                       - 30 -

Sustainability of the Program and Bank and Borrower Performance

113.    The outcome, thus far, not only supports the continuation of the relationship with the World Bank,
but for its intensification, and the creation of other mechanisms that can assure the application of greater
financial resources for the strengthening of the Brazilian capital markets.

Lessons Learned

114.    In the adjustment process, it is important to recognize the contribution by the World Bank, based
on its extensive knowledge of best practices in other countries, contributed in a decisive way to the
successful outcome of the objectives of the Second Loan.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

    Relevant supplementary information is incorporated in the Annexes to this document. See
        particularly additional Annex 8 which has the matrix of Policy Actions for this operation and
        an update on the status of programmatic components.




                                                ENDNOTES

1See Implementation Completion Report, December 17, 2002 `Brazil - Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan Project', Report No. 25116-BR, The World Bank, Washington D.C.
2For details see www.planalto.gov.br; Legislação; Constituição, Emendas Constitucionais - No 40.
3The second programmatic loan, PFSECAL-II, was approved in May 2002. See Program Document, Second
Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, May 20, 2002, Report No. 24067-BR.
4Report No. 24182-BR; Memorandum Of The President of the IBRD and IFC to the Executive Directors on a
Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Federative Republic of Brazil. May 20, 2002. The last full
Brazil Country Assistance Strategy, Report No 20160-BR was dated March 6, 2000, and the last CAS Progress
Report, No. 22116-BR, was dated May 1, 2001.
5See MOP for PFSECAL-I, Annex 3.
6See Operational Memorandum, Guidelines for Programmatic Adjustment Loans / Credits, February 11, 2000.
7See Central Bank, Juros e Spread Bancario, December 2002.




                                                     - 31 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

        As the project was an adjustment operation, it did not have a log matrix or dedicated resources
for specific procured contracts. Nevertheless below are discussions of the status of indicators of
outcome/impact included in the Program Document. Values for these indicators have been tracked,
before, during and after the project.

        Even more so than in the previous loan of this programmatic series, it was plain that trends in
variables such as interest rates, spreads, or bank credit, are influenced by a number of factors, many
exogenous. Recent market turbulence over the past one year has heightened the difficulty of attributing
outcomes to Program actions, in many areas. Bank adjustment operation, especially in a large country,
can only be a very partial explanatory variable for the observed outcome. As such it is difficult to give
the loan credit for good outcomes or to hold the program responsible for poor outcomes.

Outcome/Impact Indicators

                      Indicator      Projected in SAR/PAD *       Actual/Latest Estimate



                   Not applicable




* End of Project


Output Indicators:

                      Indicator      Projected in SAR/PAD         Actual/Latest Estimate



                   Not applicable




                                                  - 32 -

Increased Efficiency in Intermediation and Expansion of Access

Annex Figure A1.1a: Trends in Interest Rates

   %         Trends in Interest Rates (Jan 1999 - Aug 2003)
 45
                                                           Selic/Overnight
 40

 35

 30                                                        TR/Reference
                                                           rate
 25
                                                           (administered)
 20
                                                           TJLP/Long
 15                                                        term interest

 10                                                        rate
                                                           (administered)
  5

  0                                                    Source: Central
   Jan  Jul  Jan  Jul  Jan  Jul  Jan  Jul  Jan  J ul   Bank of Brazil
   1999 1999 2000 2000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003

         Compared to ICR of PFSECAL- 1, which spanned the period from Janary 1999 to December
2001, these data have been extended to August 2003.

Interest rates had declined steadily from 1999 to early 2001, and then exhibited mild increase in 2002
due to the softening of international demand, the Argentina crisis and the energy situation. However with
the political uncertainty which began in 2002, and the consequents sharp currency depreciation, interest
rates were pushed rapidly upwards to defuse market pressures against the Real. Once pressures against
the currency began to abate, the Central Bank began once again, from mid 2003, to lower interest rates.

Annex Figure A1.1b: Nominal Interest Rates

                 Nominal Interest Rates (Aug 2001 - Aug 2003)
     %

  30


  25


  20


  15


  10


   5


   0
    Aug- Oct- Dec- Feb- Apr-      Jun- Aug- Oct- Dec- Feb- Apr-  Jun- Aug-
     01    01    01    02   02    02    02    02    02 03   03    03     03




                                                         - 33 -

Annex Figure A1.1c: Nominal Exchange Rates

                                                      Nominal Exchange Rates - US$/$R
                              4.0



                              3.5

  US$/

      Real                    3.0



          Brazilian           2.5



                              2.0


                                  Aug-01  Oct-01      Dec-01      Feb-02         Apr-02     Jun-02      Aug-02         Oct-02      Dec-02     Feb-03         Apr-03     Jun-03      Aug-03



This diagram illustrates the sharp loss in value of the Real in the latter part of 2002 and early 2003,
which prompted the sharp increase in domestic interest rates

Annex Figure A1.1d: Current Account and Trade Balance (Surplus/Defecit)

                                                 Brazil - Current Account & Trade Balance
                                                                             (Surplus/Deficit)

                                  20,000

                                  10,000

                                         0

                   millions      -10,000

                           US$   -20,000

                                 -30,000

                                 -40,000

                                                  1990       1991       1992 1993       1994       1995       1996 1997       1998       1999       2000 2001       2002      2003*


                                                Current Account                                                                   Trade Balance



The positive trade balance which accompanied the fall in value of the currency helped to contain its
deterioration. The small positive current account balance forecast for 2003 remains precarious.




                                                                                                                                                    - 34 -

Annex Figure A1.2a: Trends in Interest Rate Spreads

     %        Trends in Spreads (%) (Jul 1994 - Jun 2003)
 200                                                                                                                              General

 180                                                                                                                              Enterprise

 160                                                                                                                              Individual

 140
 120                                                                                                                     Note: Spread

 100                                                                                                                     calculated as the

  80                                                                                                                     difference between
                                                                                                                         lending and funding
  60
                                                                                                                         rates.
  40
  20                                                                                                                     Source: Central
   0                                                                                                                     Bank of Brazil

                      Jul         Jul         Jul         Jul         Jul         Jul         Jul         Jul         Jul
      1994    1995        1996        1997        1998        1999        2000        2001        2002        2003
          Jul     Jan         Jan         Jan         Jan         Jan         Jan         Jan         Jan         Jan




             Compared to ICR of PFSECAL1. (1)                                                                Data extended from July 1994 to June 2003 instead of
                                                                                                             January 1999 to December 1999.
                                                                                                 (2)         Data further disaggregated to show enterprise and
                                                                                                             individuals' spreads in addition to overall spreads.

With the fundamental economic reforms initiated by the Real plan in 1994, interest rates spreads began
to narrow. The financial sector reforms, supported by the programmatic loans, could have contributed to
further lowering the spreads after 2000, however, spreads have been closely driven by interest rates
themselves, which have been overwhelmingly influenced by macroeconomic forces. Finally after mid
2003, spreads have begun to narrow once again.




                                                                                                                     - 35 -

Annex Figure A1.2b: Spreads in Bank Intermediation

                         100%                                                                                                 4.0


                                                                  0.46       0.44                0.40       0.39       0.36

                                    0.79     0.63      0.53                            0.51
                                                                                                                              3.5

                         80%                                                                                           0.47
                                                                                                            0.47
                                             0.36      0.34       0.34       0.36                0.48                         3.0
                                                                                       0.42
        Key
                                    0.84
    Elements                                                                                                                  2.5
          of             60%

     Spreads
                                             1.16
         %                                                                                                             1.16   2.0
                                                                             0.96
                                                                                       0.99      1.01       1.11

                                                                  0.99
                                                       1.08
                         40%        1.03
                                                                                                                              1.5



                                                                                                                              1.0
                                             0.68
                         20%        0.51               0.56       0.51       0.49      0.51      0.52       0.57       0.60

                                                                                                                              0.5

                                    0.41     0.38
                                                       0.22       0.22       0.21      0.22      0.22       0.22       0.23
                           0%                                                                                                 0.0
                                 Feb. 1999 Aug. 1999 Feb. 2000  Aug. 2000  Feb. 2001 Aug. 2001 Feb. 2002 Aug. 2002  Feb. 2003

   Administrative costs              22.1    19.6      19.4       18.3       17.9      19.2      15.2       14.1      12.7

   Default expenses                  23.5    11.2      12.5       13.5       14.6      15.8      18.3       17.0      16.7

   Net Bank margin                   28.8    36.1      39.6       39.3       39.0      37.4      38.4       40.2      41.3

   Direct taxation                   14.2    21.2      20.5       20.2       19.9      19.2      19.8       20.7      21.3

   Indirect taxation + FGC           11.5    11.8       8.1         8.7       8.5        8.3      8.4        8.0       8.0

   Total Monthly Spread (%)        100.0    100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0

   Total Monthly Spread (% p.m.)     3.58    3.21      2.73       2.52       2.46      2.65      2.63       2.76      2.81
                   Indirect taxation + FGC                   Direct taxation                          Net Bank margin
                   Default expenses                          Administrative costs                     Total Monthly Spread

Source: Central Bank of Brazil, 2002, "Economia Bancária e Crédito ­ Avaliação de 3 anos do projeto Juros e Spread Bancario", Brasilia.
Data for 2003 obtained from private communication with the Central Bank.




Important gains in efficiency and lower loan losses have contributed to a narrowing of spreads since
1999. The reduction in administrative costs reflects greater operational efficiencies. Lower default
expenses are correlated with a better quality of the loan portfolio. With the passage of the revised
bankruptcy law, additional cost savings are anticipated. Note however that the impact of taxation on
spreads remains large and also net bank margins remain high, suggesting the need for greater
contestability of these markets.
.




                                                                         - 36 -

Annex Figure A1.3: Trends in Credit as a % of GDP

    %          Total credit/GDP (%) (Jul 2000 - Jun 2003)
 30

                                                                              * Preliminary
 28                                                                           Data


                                                                              Source:
 26
                                                                              Central Bank
                                                                              of Brazil
 24


 22

      2000       2001         2001       2002          2002          2003
          Jul        Jan          Jul        Jan           Jul           Jan




             Compared to ICR of PFSECAL1. Data extended from December 2001 to June 2003.



             Credit to GDP in the last two years has tightened, however largely as a response to
macroeconomic conditions.


Annex Table A1.1: Extension of Access to Banking Services in Brazil - Operating Facilities



                                                                                             Municip.
                         Nº of         Total No. of            Total No. Of Municip. w/1 w/PAB and no Total No. of Municip. w/ no
                Municipalities          Branches                 PABs              Branch    Branch     PAAs       Services (*)
Dec 1999                 5,626                  16,189            6,614             1,403     189        n/a         1,679
Dec 2000                 5,636                  16,396            6,562             1,390     155        582         1,659
Dec 2001                 5,654                  16,841            7,318             1,394     135        619         1,681
Dec 2002                 5,658                  17,049            7,108             1,406     120        654         1,665



             Compared to ICR of PFSECAL1. Data extended from December 2001 to December 2002.


As in the ICR ­ I, this table continues to show an increase in the number of bank branches, which is
indicative of greater access to banking services by the non-served population. The number of
municipalities with some type of banking presence continues to increase.




                                                                                - 37 -

Annex Table A1.2: Brazil's Banking System ­ Indicators (%) Dec 1995 - Dec 2002

                                                           Dec-95     Dec-96       Dec-97    Dec-98       Dec-99       Dec-00     Dec-01 Dec-02
  Asset Quality
       Loan Loss Provisions / Loans            All             6.9        7.7         10.5       11.8        11.3          6.8       6.6    7.3
                                               Public          7.5        9.4         13.0       13.8        13.9          5.9       7.7    8.7
                                               Private         6.2        5.8           7.4        9.0        8.4          6.5       5.9    6.6
  Capital Adequacy
       Equity / Assets                         All           10.0         9.1           8.0        8.4        9.4          8.9       9.2    8.7
                                               Public          9.8        8.7           7.0        5.4        6.9          6.5       6.7    5.8
                                               Private       10.2         9.3           8.9      11.1        11.4         10.0      10.0   10.5
       Equity / Loans                          All           26.5        24.7         25.8       25.3        29.1         27.9      31.0   29.5
                                               Public        22.3        20.8         18.4       13.6        18.4         19.5      25.7   22.2
                                               Private       32.1        28.9         35.1       41.5        41.3         33.5      31.4   33.0
  Liquidity
       Loans / Assets                          All           37.8        36.6         31.0       33.1        32.2         31.8      29.6   29.5
                                               Public        43.9        42.0         38.0       39.9        37.6         33.6      25.9   25.9
                                               Private       31.9        32.2         25.2       26.7        27.6         30.0      31.9   31.7
       Loans / Deposits                        All           85.5        96.3         84.1       88.0        85.4         93.9      85.2   79.5
                                               Public        89.8        92.4         89.9     100.0         90.0         91.0      63.0   65.4
                                               Private       80.3       100.6         77.9       75.4        80.6         94.7     104.2   90.5
  Earnings / Profitability
       Returns on Assets                       All             0.0        0.1           1.2        0.2        1.4          1.5       0.8    2.5
                                               Public         -1.0        -2.6          0.5       -0.8        0.4          1.0      -0.9    1.0
                                               Private         1.0        2.2           1.8        1.1        2.1          1.8       1.9    3.7
       Returns to Equity                       All             0.4        0.6         15.3         2.0       14.5         16.9       9.0   29.0
                                               Public         -9.9      -29.3           7.6     -15.2         6.4         14.8     -13.2   16.8
                                               Private       10.1        23.1         20.4         9.8       18.6         18.2      19.1   35.5
       Loan Loss Provisions / Assets           All             2.6        2.8           3.3        3.9        3.6          2.2       2.0    2.2
                                               Public          3.3        4.0           4.9        5.5        5.2          2.0       2.0    2.2
                                               Private         2.0        1.9           1.9        2.4        2.3          1.9       1.9    2.1
  Growth (year on year)
       Assets                                  All                       21.3         25.9         3.8        8.1         11.8      13.4   15.7
                                               Public                     9.2         28.2       10.1         2.2          6.4       5.9   27.1
                                               Private                   33.2         24.0        -1.4       13.6          8.6      18.5    9.6
       Loans                                   All                       17.4           6.7      10.7         5.2         10.6       5.4   15.1
                                               Public                     4.6         15.9       15.8        -3.7         -5.0     -18.4   27.4
                                               Private                   34.7         -3.0         4.3       17.7         17.8      26.1    9.0
       Deposits                                All                        4.3         22.1         5.8        8.4          0.6      16.2   23.4
                                               Public                     1.6         19.3         4.0        6.9         -6.0      17.9   22.7
                                               Private                    7.6         25.3         7.7       10.0          0.3      14.7   25.6
       Equity                                  All                        9.7         11.2         8.5       21.1          5.9      17.3    9.4
                                               Public                     -2.8          2.6     -14.0        29.6          0.7       7.9    9.8
                                               Private                   21.5         17.8       23.3        17.2         -4.5      18.4   14.3
  Asset Composition
        Loans / assets                         All           37.8        36.6         31.0       33.1        32.2         31.8      29.6   29.5
                                               Public        43.9        42.0         38.0       39.9        37.6         33.6      25.9   25.9
                                               Private       31.9        32.2         25.2       26.7        27.6         30.0      31.9   31.7
        Securities / assets                    All           14.9        17.9         24.0       24.9        26.4         25.8      30.4   27.1
                                               Public        12.8        15.0         22.0       23.1        23.7         22.8      32.5   31.3
                                               Private       16.9        20.2         25.7       26.5        28.6         27.9      28.8   23.2
        Other credits / assets                 All           11.7        11.8         12.8       13.3        14.2         14.3      13.2   11.3
                                               Public        13.0        13.9         15.1       14.0        14.5         14.9       9.8    7.5
                                               Private       10.4        10.2         10.9       12.7        13.9         14.1      15.9   14.5


Note: Numbers for Private and Public Banks reflect Top 50 Brazilian Banks only (reflecting 97% of total banking assets at end 2002)
Source: Central Bank of Brazil

Compared to ICR of PFSECAL1; (1)data now span the period December 1995 to December 2002 instead of
December 2000 and December 2001. (2) New ratios have been added including Asset Quality - Loan Loss
Provisions / Loans , Liquidity - Loans / Assets, Loans / Deposits, Growth (year on year) - Deposits and Equity,
and Asset Composition - Loans / assets, Securities / assets and Other credits / assets.



                                                                    - 38 -

Basic banking system indicators show strong positive trends in terms of profitability but little increase in
the share of loans to total assets. Capital adequacy has declined for the public banks while remained
stable for the private sector banks. Because of the short period of time since the implementation of the
program, no definitive conclusions can be derived in terms of a final outcome. The complexity of the
financial system also makes it difficult to identify the cause and effect factors attributed to the program.

Payments System -- Central Bank

The launching of the payments system in April 2002 has contributed to increased efficiency in the
processing of payments transactions. Utilization of the new RTGS system has been satisfactory with the
average daily volume of transactions increasing from 17,000 in April 2002, to 67,000 in April 2003. The
new system also allows the Central Bank to monitor the banks' liquidity position on a real time basis.

Securities Markets

Annex Table A1.3: Market capitalization / No of listed companies End 2000 - July 2003

            Date           No. of companies       Market Capitalization    Market Capitalization
                                                       (R$ billion)           (US$ billion)
         Dec 2000                459                     R$440.9                US$225.5
         Dec 2001                428                     R$430.3                US$185.4
         Dec 2002                399                     R$438.0                US$124.0
         Mar 2003                391                     R$426.0                US$127.1
          Jul 2003               382                     R$477.0                US$160.7



Compared to the ICR of PFSECAL-1, data have been extended from December 2001 to July 2003.

Annex Table A1.4: No of companies listed on Levels 1 and 2 of the Novo Mercado

                                                          No. of companies
                                                   Dec 2001             Jul 2003
                Novo Mercado                           0                    2
                Level 1 Corporate                      19                  27
                Governance
                Level 2 Corporate                      0                    3
                Governance



Compared to the ICR of PFSECAL-1, data have been extended from December 2001 to July 2003.

The downward trend in market capitalization appears to have touched bottom at the end of 2002.
However, the decline in capitalization is not a reflection on program performance, but of macro
economic factors and the financial turbulence experienced during 2002. With economic recovery and
more stable macroeconomic conditions, investor interest in the equity market should increase.




                                                     - 39 -

                          Annex Figure A1.4a: Stock Market Indices ­ all firms and Good Governance firms

                                                                                                Brazil: Market indeces (Jun 2001 - Jul 2003)
                                                                                                                                  - IBOVESPA & IGC -
                                          1,300
                                                                                                                                                                                            IGC

                                          1,100                                                                                                                                             Bovespa



                                            900                                                                                                                                IGC - Special Corporate
                                                                                                                                                                               Governance Stock Index

                                            700
                                                                                                                                                                               IBOVESPA - Bovespa Index

                                            500                                                                                                                                Comparative IGC x
                                                           01            Jul       Sep                                              Jul                                    Jul IBOVESPA
                                                             25                              Nov               Mar       May                  Sep       Nov        Mar May
                                                                                                        Jan-02                                              Jan-03             Base 1,000 = 06/25/2001
                                                               Jun




                  Compared to ICR of PFSECAL1. Data extended from December 2001 to March 2003.


Despite the unfavorable environment for the equity markets, those companies which have publicly
disclosed their enhanced governance practices have seen a relative improvement in market valuation.


Annex Figures A1.4b and A1.4c: Sovereign EMBI+ Spreads and Stock Market Prices



                          Stock Market Price - Brazil Bovespa

              16000



  100         14000
     =

      date 12000



      Starting10000


               8000



                    Aug-01  Oct-01  Dec-01   Feb-02  Apr-02        Jun-02    Aug-02    Oct-02     Dec-02          Feb-03    Apr-03     Jun-03    Aug-03




                                                                                                                                                       - 40 -

                                Brazil - JP Morgan EMBI+ Spreads
             2400
             2200
             2000
             1800
             1600

  points     1400
             1200

        basis1000
              800
              600
              400
              200



                 Aug-01  Oct-01  Dec-01  Feb-02  Apr-02  Jun-02  Aug-02  Oct-02  Dec-02  Feb-03  Apr-03  Jun-03  Aug-03




The sharp increase in bond spreads and hence funding costs for Brazil's debt are reflected
above, and are mirrored in the decline in the domestic stock market indicator. In 2003, as bond
spreads abroad have declined, the stock market has also witnessed a revival.




                                                                                                                       - 41 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

        The program was an adjustment operation for budgetary and balance of payments support. As
such, project costs and financing sources were not defined as under investment loans either by
component or by procurement arrangements.

        The project formed a key part of the external financing needs of Brazil in 2002. The timing of
this loan was critical in view of the sharp decline in capital inflows. In 2002 foreign direct investment
dropped to half of the amount registered in 2000. Bank lines and suppliers credits were also cut back.
The combination of the currency's depreciation and the notable increase in domestic interest rates
depressed demand for imports and thus shrank the current account deficit to US$7.7 billion. With a
lower current account deficit, there was only a moderate drawdown of international reserves, thus
maintaining a healthy international liquidity position.

           Annex Table A2.1: Brazil ­ Financing Requirements and IBRD Role (US$ billion)


                                                         1999      2000      2001      2002

     Current Account Balance                             -25.3     -24.2     -23.2     -7.7

     M & L Term Debt Amortization Needs                  57.6      43.6      36.5      35.8

      Financing:

     o/w FDI                                             28.6      32.8      22.5      16.6

     IBRD Disbursements                                   0.8       1.7       1.2       1.6

      Memo items:

     Int'l Reserves (end of Previous Year)               34.4      23.9      31.5      27.8

     Public Sector Borrowing Requirements                31.5      20.4      18.4      21.2

     Public Sector Borrowing Requirements (% GDP)         5.8       3.6       3.5       4.7

Compared to ICR of PFSECAL-1, data have been extended from December 2001 to December 2002.

Annex 2a: Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation


Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent ) (see endnote)

Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation


Annex 2c: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.




                                                   - 42 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

(Indicate currency, units and base year)

        Standard calculations of economic or financial rates of return are not applicable because this
was an adjustment operation and most of the outcomes were related to the achievement of growth and
maintenance of macroeconomic and financial stability. However, it is worth pointing out that notable
benefits were achieved in terms of building a sound framework for the financial sector and hence
reducing systemic risks, and in building a sustained policy direction for the sector, to which the
government remained committed. This was demonstrated by the follow up Second Programmatic
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. A summary of the current status of achievement of programmatic
actions is described in the Matrix in Annex 8, which includes comments on the current status of
achievement of programmatic actions.




                                               - 43 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               November 2001             4     Sector Manager                       S               S
                                               1 Lead Financial Sector
                                               Specialist
                                               1 Financial Economist
                                               1 Consultant ­ Banking
                                               Supervision


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               March 2002                2     Sector Manager                       S               S
                                               Team Leader (Lead
                                               Financial Economist)


 Supervision
               December 2002              2    Sector Manager                       S               S
                                               Team Leader
               February 2003              1    Team Leader                          S               S

 ICR
               September 2003            -     Consultant did not travel



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  21                           87.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       32                         127.8
  Supervision                                  4                           19.2
  ICR                                          6                           17.6
  Total                                       63                         251.6




                                               - 44 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU



Borrower dialogue and cooperation were excellent throughout. Borrower performance and commitment
to the overall financial sector program is clearly revealed in the present swift follow up operation; the
Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment loan to Brazil.




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Central Bank of Brazil, `Juros e Spread Bancário no Brasil', November 2000 and 2001.

  Concept Paper: `Brazil ­ Access to Financial Services', January 24, 2002. World Bank.

  Mid-Term Review : `Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project' (Loan 4245-BR),
     March 7, 2001. World Bank.

  Operational Directive 8.60, Operational Memorandum: Guidelines for Programmatic Adjustment
     Loans / Credits, Operations Policy and Strategy Group, February 11, 2000. World Bank.

  Report of the President on a Proposed Banking Reform Special Sector Adjustment Loan', Report No.
     P-7278-BR, November 30, 1998. World Bank.

  Report of the President: `Proposed First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan', Report No.
     P-7448-BR, April 26, 2001. World Bank.

  Report of the President: `Proposed Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan', Report
     No. P-24067-BR, May 20, 2002. World Bank.

  Programmatic and Emergency Adjustment Lending: World Bank Guidelines, Operations Policy and
     Strategy Group, September 29, 1998. World Bank.

  Project Appraisal Document: `Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project', Report No.
     16867-BR, October 23, 1997. World Bank.

  Project Appraisal Document: `Brazil - Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan Project', Report
     No. 22603, August 2001. World Bank

  Draft Report: `Brazil: Access to Financial Services', June 27, 2003.

  Implementation Completion Report: `Brazil ­ First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan',
     Report No. 25116-BR, December 17, 2002. World Bank.




                                                - 47 -

Additional Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions

The last column below on the Status at the time of ICR has been inserted into the Matrix of Programmatic Actions
for PFSECAL-II in order to illustrate the status of the program as a whole at the time of finalization of the ICR. As
the column indicates progress with the program as a whole was highly satisfactory, leading to the rapid follow up
Programmatic Loan in June 2002. Since then, despite considerable turmoil in macroeconomic conditions and
financial markets, accompanying the transition to a new government, broad sectoral policies have been largely
reaffirmed with the new administration and there is ongoing consideration of the potential for a future
programmatic operation.
* [ ]  Parentheses represent actions described in overall government reform program (Annex 3) of PFSECAL - 1 which were outside the scope of the Bank's
programmatic loan. Italics represent actions under PFSECAL - 2 and the longer term program which are pending / under discussion.

                     First Loan - FY01             Proposed Second Loan - FY02                    Future Development Areas

    Policy Areas                                                                                                                        Program         Status at time of
                           Actions               Actions          Actions Achieved         Probable Actions        Monitoring           Objectives             ICR

                         Completed              Expected                                                            Indicators

    I. Financial System Accessibility, Depth, Efficiency, and Safety
    I.1              ·      Major            ·     Risk        ·      Risk Center now     ·      Audit of Risk  ·      Risk Center ·      Increase     ·     Risk Center
    Efficiency       progress achieved       Center system     producing information      Center functioning    review              efficiency and     information on
    and Access       in Central Bank         readiness to      on smaller denomination    and action plan to                        depth of financial smaller
    to Financial     actions to resolve      provide           loans (R$5,000, below      remedy any                                intermediation     denomination loans
    Services         structural causes of    enhanced set of   previous level of          shortcomings          ·      Study on     provided by the    has been made
                     Brazil's record high    debtor            R$20,000), and             ·      Policy review  credit information  private sector     available.
                     intermediation          information       including coops and        initiated on          / creditor rights  ·      Poverty      ·     Dialogue on
                     spreads. Principal                        microcredit entities       extending limits on                       reduction through  extending limits of
       Efficiency    actions are:                              ·       Contract signed    information                               growth             information sharing
                     Ø RiskCenter                              and work advanced for      sharing.                                                     under discussion
                     strengthened and                          Risk Center positive                                                                    with the
                     Debtor information    ·      Publication  information and access                                                                  government, in the
                     improved              of law for the      by financial institutions.                                                              context of financial
                                           Cédula de Crédito   ·      Risk Center web                                                                  access.
                                           Bancário            page on Central Bank
                     Ø Contract                                website
                     enforcement                               ·      Provisional law                                                                  ·     Provisional
                     strengthened                              on Cédula de Crédito                                                                    Law on Cédula de
                                                               Bancário deemed to                                                                      Crédito Bancário
                                                               have full legal status                                                                  has full legal status.
                                                               ·      Competition /
                                                               consumer protection and                                                                 ·     Proposals for
                                           ·      Completion   disclosure strengthened                                                                 a new study on
                                           of study of         through (i) Bank                                                                        financial
                                           financial sector    Consumer Protection                                                                     competition under
                                           taxation            Code and (ii) enhanced                                                                  discussion with the
                                                               interest rate, account and                                                              Central Bank
                                                               overdraft disclosure
                                                               Ø Twoworking                                                                            ·     New phase
                                                               papers on the CPMF tax                                                                  on spreads analysis
                                                               issued.                                                                                 beginning, and
                                                               Ø Submissionto                                                                          proposals for
                                                               Congress of proposed                             ·      Adoption of                     reform of CPMF
                                                               elimination of CPMF on                           new and more                           and other financial
                                             {No specific      stock market                                     rational financial                     transactions taxes
                                             actions for the   transactions                                     sector taxation                        under debate in
                                             Second loan}      Ø Preparationof                                  policies                               Congress
                                                               modification of Law        ·      Policy

                                                               4591 on the Sistema        recommendations                                              ·     Congress
                                                               Financeira de              issued on new                                                passed an
                                                               Habitação including,       financial sector      ·      Revised                         amendment by
                                                               inter alia, the tax        taxation framework    law effective                          which CPMF no
                                                               treatment of savings                                                                    longer applies to
                                                               accounts                                                                                stock transactions.
                                                               Ø Achievementof            ·      Approval of
                                                               stronger draft law with                                                                 ·
      Bankruptcy                                                                          amended                                                            Stronger
                     Ø Bankruptcy                              creditors rights                                                                        version of
     Law Reform                                                                           Bankruptcy Law by
                     reform being                              increased, flexible        Congress                                                     Bankruptcy Law
                     considered by                             solutions for bankruptcy,                                                               which gives greater
                     Congress                                  limits to labor and tax                                                                 power to creditors
                                                               claims and reduced                                                                      committee under
                                                               standstill period                                                                       debate in Congress
                                                                                                                                                       ­ passge considered
                                                                                                                                                       imminent.




                                                                                   - 48 -

              FirstLoan - FY01             Proposed Second Loan - FY02                   Future Development Areas

Policy Areas                                                                                                                 Program          Status at time of
                    Actions              Actions          Actions Achieved         Probable Actions        Monitoring       Objectives               ICR

                  Completed             Expected                                                           Indicators


         I. 2·       Innovative    ·      Completion   ·      Completion of       ·     Adoption of    ·      Additional ·     Broaden       ·      Active debate
 Broadening   steps taken to reach of strategy to      reports by four            measures to further   measures         access to financial with the World
   of Access  underserved          further develop     investigative committees   develop availability  announced and    services for        Bank and multiple
              population.          availability of     on Access to               of financial services issued           under-served        players in Brazil on
              Principal actions    financial services  microfinance by the        to under-served                        population          Access,basedon
              are:                 to under-served     Comunidade Solidária       sectors, including                     ·                   recentlycompleted
                                                                                                                               Poverty
                                   sectors             and formulation of         expansion of role of                                       study.
                                                                                                                         reductionthrough
             Ø Accessibility                           strategy to expand         microfinance and                       increased access    ·      Majornew
              of financial services                    financial services to      rationalizationof                                          steps to expand
              widened                                  underserved.               role of government                                         access announced
              Ø Cooperative                            ·      Launching of new    and federal banks                                          by new government
              services deepened                        initiatives for                                                                       over period of June

                                                       microcredit by SEBRAE                                                                 to August 2003.

                                                       ·                                                                                     Measuresinclude
                                                              Passage of                                                                     basic accounts,
                                                       resolution broadening                                                                 easier access to
                                                       access to financing by                                                                opening of a bank
                                                       microcredit societies                                                                 account,new
                                                       (SCMs)                                                                                dedicated
                                                       ·      Auctioning of                                                                  microfinance
                                                       postal franchise for                                                                  subsidiaries of large
                                                       extension of network of                                                               public bank, easing
                                                       provision of financial                                                                of rules for opening
                                                       services.                                                                             of credit
                                                       ·      Introduction of                                                                cooperatives,

                                                       retail sales of Treasury                                                              establishment of

                                                       bonds                                                                                 special funds for

                                                       ·                                                                                     investment projects
                                                              Measures to                                                                    in microenterprises
                                                       expand housing finance:                                                               and
                                                       Ø Extensionof                                                                         microinfrastructure.
                                   ·                   Cédula instrument to
                                          Completion   housing sector (Cédula
                                   of strategy to                                                                                            ·      New
                                                       do Crédito Imobiliário)
                                   widen the use of                                                                                          Ministry of
                                                       Ø Separationof
                                   movable                                                                                                   Housing
                                                       constructioncompany
                                   collateral to                                                                                             established,new
                                                       and project assets;
                                   mobilize credit                                                                                           programs of special
                                                       (patrimôniode                                                                         loans for housing
                                                       afeitação) and creation                                                               for the poor,
                                                       of special purpose                                                                    establishment of
                                                       mutual funds for                                                                      special funds for
                                                       housing loan                                                                          housing projects.
                                                       securitization (FDIC)
                                                       Ø Easeduseof
                                                       alienação fiduciáriafor
                                                       housing




                                                                               - 49 -

              FirstLoan - FY01              Proposed Second Loan - FY02                   Future Development Areas

Policy Areas                                                                                                                      Program          Status at time of
                     Actions              Actions           ActionsAchieved         ProbableActions          Monitoring          Objectives               ICR

                   Completed             Expected                                                             Indicators

I.3 Banking  ·       Quantum         ·      Newoff-     ·      Systemcompleted     ·      Effective      ·       Generation  ·      Ensure        ·     Offsite
System        reforms achieved in    site surveillance  end 2001 representing      operation of new      of simulations /    soundness in the     surveillancesystem
Soundness     modernizing and        system             huge advance in offsite    off-sitesurveillance  stress tests by new operation of both    operational with
and Safety    strengthening          operational        surveillance capacity;     system                system              public and private   emphasis on
Net           supervisory            ·                                                                                                            monitoring of
                                            Enhanced    ·      Risk Center         ·      Effective      ·       Enhanced    banks
              methods,capital                                                                                                                     liquidity; interest
        Bank                         Risk Center        extension underway(see     operation and         informationand
              adequacy standards,                                                                                            ·      Poverty       rate and currency
   regulation                        operational        I.1 above)                 increased             eased access to
              asset classification,                                                                                          impact through       risks.
         and                                                                       informationfrom       information at
              examination            ·      Intro-      ·      Manual Project                                                crisis prevention    ·     Enhanced
  supervision                                                                      enhancedRisk          Risk Center
              manuals, bank          duction of         near completion (Aug
                                                                                   Center (see also                                               Risk Center has
              rating, Credit Risk    Examination        2002)                                            ·       Use of
                                                                                   III.1)                                                         implemented
              Center and             Manuals            ·      Rating design                             manualsin                                expanded coverage.
              streamlining of on-    ·      Intro-      system work advanced       ·      Application    examinations                             ·     Examination
              and off-site           duction of bank    (July 2002)                of Examination       ·       Undertaking                       manuals adopted,
              supervision,.          ratingsystem       ·                          Manuals
                                                               Not submitted due                         of ratings                               applying best
              Principal actions                         to political opposition.   ·      Application    ·       Draftnew                         international
              are:                                      However,enhanced           of bank rating        standards                                practices.
             Ø Consolidated          ·       Law        protection for senior      system                prepared                                 ·     Bank rating
              supervision            submitted to       supervisors embedded in                                                                   system has been
              introduced             Congress to        proposed Central Bank      ·      Formal                                                  designed and
             Ø Capital               better protect     law                        proposals for                                                  currently being
              adequacy standards     supervisors                                   extended protection                                            tested with selected
              strengthened                              ·      Additional
                                                                                   drafted by Central                                             examinations. Full
             Ø Soundasset                               regulatory reforms in
                                                                                   Bank.                                                          implementation
              classification                            areasofaccounting                                                                         expected in 2004.
              introduced                                with:                                                                                     ·     Law to better
             Ø Major                                    Ø Marking-to-              ·      Advanced                                                protect supervisors
              supervisory                               market of securities and   project for                                                    not submitted.
              reorganization                            separation of booking of   harmonization of                                               These issues may
              completed                                 securities for trading     financial institution                                          be addressed in the
             Ø Advanced                                 holding, and available     accounting                                                     contextofanew
              contract                                  for trade                  standards with IAS.                                            Central Bank law,
              implementation to                         Ø Mark-tomarket                                                                           to be submitted to
              develop                                   and netting of                                                                            Congress in the
              examination                               derivatives, clarified                                                                    coming months.
              manuals                                   hedge accounting, credit                                                                  ·     Marking-to-
             Ø Advanced                                 derivates and swap                                                                        marketof
              contracting to                            operations                                                                                investment
              develop bank rating                       ·      Strengthened                                                                       portfolionow
              system                                    disclosure and internal                                                                   enforced, has
                                                        controls                                                                                  assistedin
                                                                                                                                                  monitoring of
                                                                                                                                                  interest rate risk.



        Bank ·       Complexand ·                       ·      Draft legislation   ·      Draft
                                           Preparation                                                   ·       Congress-   ·      Ensure        ·     Bank failure
   resolution                                           on bank failure            legislation                               swift and
              farreachingreview     of draft                                                             ional project for                         resolution ­ draft
  and deposit                                           resolution under           submitted to                              resolution of
              programofbank         legislation and                                                      draft legislation                         legislationnow
    insurance                                           preparation by Central     Congress;                                 failed banks to
              exit framework and    new draft statutes                                                           Passage of                        fully prepared and
                                                        bank consultant                                  ·
                                                                                          Draft                              prevent asset
              role of deposit       for the deposit                                ·                     CMNresolution                             to be submitted to
                                                        ·      FGC proposals for   resolution for                            deterioration and
              insurance agreed      insurer, and their                                                   on new statues                            Congress after the
                                                        changes to its statutes    changes to FGC                            fair distribution of
              and initiated         submission for                                                                                                 Central Bank law.
                                                        prepared and submitted     statutes approved                         assets
                                    approval                                                                                                      ·
                                                        to the Central Bank        byMonetary                                                           Changes to

                                                                                   Council                                                         FGC statutes not
                                                                                                                                                   yet approved by
                                                                                                                                                   Central Bank.
       Crisis                       ·      Completion   ·      Blueprint           Continuation of the                       ·      Strengthen    ·     Blueprint
   Prevention·       Central Bank   of blueprint and    developed, submitted to    work to implement                         capacity to          prepared, however,
         and  decision adopted to   approval by         the Central Bank, and      a Contingency Plan                        prevent a crisis     a dry-runof
Management    develop               authorities         approved by the Central    will depend on the                        and to respond       contingency plan
              contingency                               Bank Director on May       approval of the new                       promptly and         dependentonnew
              planning and                              2001                       Central Bank Law.                         effectively if it    Central Bank law.
              intensivework                                                                                                  occurs
              program agreed and
              initiated




                                                                                - 50 -

               FirstLoan - FY01            ProposedSecondLoan - FY02                   Future Development Areas

Policy Areas                                                                                                               Program        Status at time of
                     Actions            Actions          Actions Achieved        Probable Actions       Monitoring        Objectives            ICR

                   Completed           Expected                                                          Indicators

I.4 Payments                                                                                                          ·     Reduce       ·     NewRTGS
System and     ·     Landmark       ·      New        ·     NewPayment          ·     Satisfactory    ·     Central   systemic risk and     paymentsystem
Securities     reform launched      Payments          System expected to be     functioning of new    banksystem      CentralBank           operational,
Clearance      and demanding        System,           launched on April 22,     Payments System       reports         exposure, increase    with notable
and            implementation       particularly      2002. Revised date                                              overall efficiency    increase in
Settlement     timetable            RTGS,fully        supported by Bankers'     ·     Investigation                   in clearing and
               maintained.          operational       Association                                                                           volumeof
                                                                                of any residual risks                 settlement, and
               Enabling legislation                                                                                                         electronic
                                                                                insomesystem                          ensure prudent
               passed                                                                                                                       transfers.
                                    ·      Guideline  ·     Guidelines issued,  areas e.g. securities                 managementof       ·     Guidelines
                                    s for private     including circulars on    clearance and                         remaining risks
                                                                                                                                            issuedand
                                    payment and       monitoring of reserve     settlement/
                                                                                                                                            exchanges
                                    securities        accounts; statues of      Review of
                                                                                                                                            working
                                    clearance         clearing houses and       guidelines and
                                                                                                                                            satisfactorily.
                                    finalized and     settlement of securities  correction of
                                    issued            on CETIP (private         shortcomings
                                                      clearing) system
I.5 Securities                            Additional                                                                  ·     Stimulate    ·     Instruction
Markets        ·     Good          ·                  ·     CVM Instruction     ·     Additional      ·     Issue of
                                   regulations to                                                                     the demandby       358 strengthens
Deepening      governance                             No. 358 issued on         regulations to        regulations     local and foreign  disclosure of
               guidelines issued   perfect and        January3,2002which        strengthen
    Corporate                                                                                                         investors for      material
               by stock exchange   consolidate        regulates and             disclosure and                        securities issued  information with
  governance   andBNDESparand      minority           strengthens the           transparency,                         by Brazilian firms emphasis on timely
               principles          shareholder        disclosure of securities  including;                                               andcomprehensive
               incorporated in     protection         related material          regulationonpublic                                       disclosure by
               pension fund                           information.              offerings, and on                                        management.
               investment                                                       broker dealers                                                 Instruction
               regulations                            ·     CVMInstruction      (including in                                            ·
                                                      No. 361, issued on                                                                 361 grants rights to
                                                                                derivatives trading).
                                                      March 5, 2002 on                                                                   minority
                                                      obligatory tender offers                                                           shareholders in
                                                      to minority shareholders.                                                          voluntary
                                                                                                                                         acquisitions,
                                                      ·     SPC Resolution                                                               company delistings,
                                                      No 1 issuedon                                                                      and acquisitions by
                                                      disclosure of voting of                                                            controlling
                                                      pension funds                                                                      shareholders .
                                                                                                                                         ·     Resolution
                                                                                                                                         No 1 adopts policy
                                                                                                                                         regarding
                                                                                                                                         disclosure by
                                                                                                                                         pension funds at
                                                                                                                                         shareholders'
                                                                                                                                         meetings.




                                                                             - 51 -

             FirstLoan - FY01           Proposed SecondLoan - FY02                    Future Development Areas

Policy Areas                                                                                                             Program         Status at time of
                   Actions            Actions          Actions Achieved         Probable Actions       Monitoring       Objectives              ICR

                 Completed            Expected                                                         Indicators

             ·                   ·                  ·                          ·                    ·                ·                  ·
 Regulatory         Submission         Publication        Revisions to                Review of           Review of         Developan          Revised
             to Congress and     ofrevisedCVM       CVM law passed and         achievements of      assessments /    effective          CVM law increased
 framework   partial sanction of Law                embodied in Law 10411      mergers of mutual    modifications    regulatory         CVM's
         and legal amendments                       and Decree 3995            funds and pension    proposed and     structure,with     administrative
enforcement  to enhance CVM's                                                  funds regulatory     drafted by       appropriate        independence and
             enforcement         ·      Blueprint   ·     Merger of mutual     responsibility and   Monetary Council disclosure and     enhanced its
             capacity and         for consolidation fund responsibilities      assessment of need                    transparency, for  regulatory and
             establish            of mutual fund    under CVM achieved         for further                           securities markets oversight powers.
             independence of      regulation and    through modifications to   consolidation.
             accounting           pension fund      CVM law                    Blueprint / draft                                        ·      CVMis
             standards setting    regulation        ·                                                                                   primary regulator
                                                          Regulation issued    law(s) / regulations
                                                                                                                                        of mutual funds:
             ·                                                                 prepared as needed
                    CVM                             requiring pension funds
                                                                               to achieve any                                           both debt and
             regulations issued                     to mark to market their
                                                                               additional                                               equity funds.
             toenhance                              securities portfolios and
                                                                               consolidation                                            Preparation of new
             information                            classify securities as
                                                                               required                                                 regulations for
             disclosure and                         held for trading or for                                                             mutual funds to
             investor protection ·      Merger of   maturity (Central Bank                                                              take account of
                                  pension fund      circular 3086).                                                                     merger of
                                  responsibilities  ·     Proposed merger                                                               responsibilities

                                                    of pension fund                                                                     actively underway

                                                    responsibilities by mid                                                             withBankTA

                                                    2002                                                                                support

             ·      Agreement                                                                                                           ·      Pension

             on principles of                                                                                                           funds required to

             draft Central                                                                                                              mark-to-market and

             Bank/financial                                                                                                             to reflect gains /

             systemlaw                                                                                                                  losses to investors'
                                                                                                                                        position.
                                                                                                                                        Regulation is being
                                                                                                                                        enforced.
                                                                                                                                        ·      Proposed
                                                                                                                                        merger of pension
                                                                                                                                        fund
                                                                                                                                        responsibilities still
                                                                                                                                        pending.
                                                                                                                                        Completion of
                                                                                                                                        major changes
                                                                                                                                        underway in Social
                                                                                                                                        Security system
                                                                                                                                        awaited before a
                                                                                                                                        formal
                                                                                                                                        consideration of a
                                                                                                                                        unifiedpension
                                                                                                                                        fund regulator .
                                                                                                                                        Bank collaboration
                                                                                                                                        in pensions analysis
                                                                                                                                        has begun.




                                                                            - 52 -

               FirstLoan - FY01           Proposed Second Loan - FY02                    Future Development Areas

Policy Areas                                                                                                                    Program          Status at time of
                     Actions            Actions           Actions Achieved         Probable Actions        Monitoring           Objectives              ICR

                   Completed           Expected                                                             Indicators

 II. PublicBankReform

Public Bank    (Not within the     (No indicative      ·      Launching of first  ·      Adoption of    ·     Reportby      ·      Separate     ·      First
Reform         scopeofthe          actions defined     phase of restructuring of  Strategic Plans for   Central Bank on     commercial          restructuring of the
through        PSECAL1             for second loan)    deposit taking federal     Federal Banks         progresswith        banking             federal banks
recapitalizati program)                                banks,announcedby          Ø including           adoption of         operations from     completed, as a
on,                                                    issuance of law in June    goals and time        strategic plans and the achievement     result of
restructuring, ·     [Major        [Broadly            2001, requiring the State  bound actions plans   actions required    of government       examination, banks
enhancement    diagnosis           expected            as owner to                for raising           for follow up       policy goals        havebeen
of             performedby         actions, within                                efficiency and                                                recapitalized.
operational                                                                                                                 ·      Restore the
               reputable           an    unspecified   Ø restoretheir             solvency                                                      Banks subject to
efficiency                                                                                                                  financial
               internationalfirm   time        frame,  financial condition,                                                                     same prudential
and                                                                                                                         soundness of all
               and results         included:           recognizing and            ·                                                             normsasprivate
divestiture                                                                              Agreement                          remaining federal
               disseminated to the "Clear definition   absorbing past losses,     on a set of                               banks and enable    sector banks.
               public              of medium and       Ø assumerisksand
 II.1 Federal                                                                     performance                               a sustained         ·      Bancodo
                                                       costs of public policy
         Bank  ·     Completion    longterm                                       benchmarks, based                         reorientation of    Brasil privatized up
                                                       programs they manage
Recapitaliza-  of rigorous         strategies to                                  on the action plans,                      their mandates,     to 25 percent.
                                                       Ø netoutaccounts
      tion and inspections by      reassess                                       selected to measure                       internal
                                                       of the federal banks with                                                                ·      Internal
 Rationaliza-  Central Bank,       mandates,                                      Ø efficiency                              organization and
                                                       the Federation;                                                                          organization
          tion degree of           develop plans to                               productivity,                             efficiency to       changes in Banco
               noncompliance       improve            Ø establishspecial          profitability,                            ensure continued    do Brasil for greater
               with regulatory     efficiency and      debt for bonds swap        measurementof         ·     Reportby      profitability.      accountability and
               standards           efficacy of the     programs for each of the   contribution by       Central Bank on    ·       Increase     transparency in cost
               ascertained, and    public policies     four federal banks         business lines and    monitoring          gradually but       monitoring
               enforcement actions implementedby                                  adequacy of net       indicators and      steadily the role
               underway. ]         them, increase     ·       Blueprint under     loan loss provisions  their application                       ·      Federal
                                                                                                                            of the private
                                   transparency on     preparation for second                                                                   Government
                                                                                                                            sector in financial
                                   their fiscal costs, phasereformtosustain     ·                                                               accounts netted out.
                                                                                        Strengthening                       marketswhere
                                   and reduce their    recapitalization                                                                         Enhanced
                                                                                 of internal controls,                      federal banks
                                   fiscal burden.      through:                                                                                 transparency in
                                                                                 including                                  operate (e.g. rural development fund
                                   Progressinthe       Ø leveraging               Ø enhanced                                andhousing          lending.
                                   federal banks in    management layers;         MIS systems                               finance)
                                   compliance with     Ø diversifying             allowingthe
                                   Central Bank        business away from         assessment of
                                   enforcement         targeted sectors;          performanceof         ·     Listing on
                                   actions."]         Ø separating                individual business   the Bovespa's
                                                       activities by major        segments and          NovoMercado.
                                                       business lines especially  separation of
                                                       thoserelated to            activities
                                                       Government;                undertaken on
                                                      Ø improving                 behalf of
                                                       management                 government;
                                                       information systems to     Ø strengthened
                                                       enable performance         internal and
                                                       monitoring on a risk       external audit;
                                                       adjusted basis and;        Ø strengthened
                                                       Ø improvecontrols          risk management
                                                       in internal systems, as    inter alia for credit
                                                       per agreed plans and       risk, market risk,
                                                       timetables                 operational, risk,
                                                                                  forex risk and legal
                                                       ·      Launching of        risks;
                                                       follow up inspections of
                                                       specific federal banks     ·      Governance
                                                       ·      Announced           Reforms including
                                                       increased divestiture of   Ø strengthened
                                                       govt. from BdB             accountability of
                                                                                  managementteam
                                                                                  and
                                                                                  Ø enhanced
                                                                                  disclosure including
                                                                                  of tax and pension
                                                                                  contingencies




                                                                              - 53 -

                FirstLoan - FY01            Proposed Second Loan - FY02                   Future Development Areas

Policy Areas                                                                                                                  Program          Status at time of
                      Actions             Actions          Actions Achieved         ProbableActions       Monitoring          Objectives               ICR

                    Completed             Expected                                                         Indicators

    II.2 State  (Outside the scope    (NoIndicative     ·      Privatization of an ·     Completion     ·    Sales of 4   ·      [Phase out   ·      Three state
         Bank   ofPSECAL1)            Actions had       additional three state     ofremaining          remaining state   of deposit-taking   banks,
Recapitalizati                        been defined for  banks;PARAIBAN             privatization of     banks             state banks]        PARAIBAN, BEG,
           on,  [Multidimensional     second loan)      (Banco do Estado da        state banks                                                andBEA
Restructuring   restructuring                           Paraíba) on November                                                                  privatized.
          and   programalready        [Broadly          8, 2001, BEG (Banco do                                                                ·      Of the four
Privatization   applied to 44 state   expected          Estado de Goiás) on                                                                   remaining
                banks (out of a total actions, within   December 4, 2001, and                                                                 federalized state
                of 47) in the last    an unspecified    BEA (Banco do Estado                                                                  banks, privatization
                four years,           time frame,       doAmazonas)on                                                                         plans have resumed
                including:            included:         January 24, 2002. One                                                                 for two and
                ·      Privatization                    additional state bank has                                                             updating of
                of 7 banks            "Completion of    applied for permission                                                                valuation exercise
                (including of         pending           and rationalize.                                                                      is under way, led by
                Banespa)              privatization of                                                                                        new Central Bank
                ·      Liquidation    state banks"]                                                                                           director for
                of 10 banks                                                                                                                   privatization.
                ·      Restructuring
                of 5 banks
                ·      Conversion
                intodevelopment
                agencies of 16
                banks
                ·      Remaining6
                banksbeing
                prepared for
                privatization]


III. FundamentalFinancialSystemLegislation

    Landmark    ·      Submission    ·      Publication ·      Passage of          ·     Reviewof       ·    Policy       ·      Stimulate    ·      New
Progress with   to Congress and      of revised         Corporate lawthough        effectiveness of     agendaon          the demand by       Corporate Law and
Fundamental                                                                        newgovernance        governance issues local and foreign   CVMLawsin
    Financial   partial sanction of  Corporate Law      Congress and signature     framework;           drawn up by       investors for       place.New
       System   revised Corporate                       by President on October    identification of    CVM               securities issued   PresidentofCVM
  Legislation   Law                                     31st, 2001, marking        additional measures                    by Brazilian firms  in place with 5 year
                                                        significant strengthening  forstrengthening                       ·      Broadenthe   term independent of
III.1Passage                                                                       governance                             access to long      political changes.
 oflandmark                                             in enterprise governance                                          term finance,       ·      Range of
legislation on                                          framework.                                                        especially for      newregulatory
    corporate                                                                                                             medium-size         initiativesprepared
  governance                                                                                                              enterprises         and passed by
                                                                                                                                              CVM,following
                                                                                                                                              new laws).


          III.2 (Not included in      (Specific         ·      Fullpassage         ·     Submission     ·    Receiptby    ·      [Enable      ·      Fullpassage
   Passage of   programmatic          indicative        through Congress of        to Congress of new   Congressofsuch    adaptation of       of amendment to
Constitutiona   actions of            actions had not   proposed Amendment to      andseparate          proposals.        financial sector    Article 192
l amendment     PSECAL1)              been defined for  the Constitution nº        proposals for                          legislation/regulat (Constitutional
   to unblock                         second loan)      53/1999 to permit the      financialsystem                        ion to changing     Amendment nº 40
  obstacle on   [ Significant                           formulation of             regulation.                            market              of May 29, 2003).
  many areas    progressin            [Broadly          legislation for the                                               conditions]         It will allow several
  of financial  Congressional         expected          financial system through                                                              financialsystem
        sector  discussion of         actions, within   not only one, but several                                                             laws to be
   legislation  amendmentto           an    unspecified laws.                                                                                 submitted.
                Constitution Article  time       frame,
                192 to unblock        included:         Law took effect as
                development of                          Constitutional
                fundamental                             Amendment nº 40 of
                financial sector      "Approvalof
                                                        May 29, 2003.
                legislation]          amendmentto
                                      Constitution
                                      Article 192"]




                                                                                - 54 -

              FirstLoan - FY01            Proposed Second Loan - FY02                   Future Development Areas

Policy Areas                                                                                                                 Program     Status at time of
                     Actions            Actions          Actions Achieved         Probable Actions        Monitoring        Objectives          ICR

                  Completed            Expected                                                            Indicators

        III.3 (Not included in      [Broadly          It has now been decided                                                          ·       New Central
 Submission   programmatic          expected          that the submission of                                                            Bank management
 to Congress  actionsof             actions, within   the Central Bank law                                                              has broadened
   of Central PSECAL1)              an   unspecified  will be separated from     ·     Amendments      ·      Institution-              scope of issues for
   Bank law                         time     frame,   the submission of          passed to Law 4595    alization of                     new Central Bank
              [Agreement on         included:         regulations for the        to permit new         monetary policy                  law, and detailed
              overall principles of                   financial system.          Central Bank          independence                     examination of
              draft law ready for   ·     "Submis-    ·      A draft newlaw      statutes                                               several relevant
              submissionto          sion to           has been prepared,         ·     Merger in                                        areas underway,
              Congress to:          Congress of       which amends Law 4595      practice of mutual                                     with support of
                                    Central           on the financial system,   fund regulation                                        World Bank and
              ·      Strengthen     Bank/financial    with regard to the         under CVM                                              BIS. Areas include
              Central Bank          system law"]      Central Bank                                                                      eg role of Board
              independenceand                         ·      Rationalization of ·     Consolidation                                     and Directors of an
              accountability; and                     rest of financial system, of closed and open                                      autonomous Central
              ·      Reorganize;                      e.g. mutual funds and     pension fund                                            Bank, issues
              and rationalize                         pension funds, is now     regulatory                                              relating to
                                                      being handled             responsibilities under
              responsibilities for                                                                                                      budgetary
                                                      separately (see I. IV     a single agency                                         autonomy, etc.
              financial sector                        above)
              regulation,
              allocating systemic
              issues to the Central
              Bank and merging
              otherregulatory
              functions under one
              umbrella]




                                                                             - 55 -

Additional Annex 9. Comments Received from the Central Bank (Portuguese original)

Avaliação do Segundo Empréstimo do BIRD ao Brasil para Ajustamento Estrutural do Setor Financeiro
(SAL)

Missão da Comissão de Valores Mobiliários ­ CVM

A Comissão de Valores Mobiliários do Brasil ­ CVM é um órgão federal vinculado ao Ministério da
Fazenda, criada mediante a Lei 6385, de 7 de Dezembro de 1976, sendo dotada de poderes para disciplinar,
reger e supervisionar as atividades dos participantes do mercado de valores mobiliários.

No desempenho de suas atribuições, a CVM procura assegurar a transparência e a fidedignidade das
informações divulgadas ao mercado, bem como dos registros efetuados no âmbito do sistema de
distribuição de valores mobiliários, além de pautar sua atuação na rigorosa averiguação da ocorrência
de possíveis ilícitos, dentre os quais podemos citar a manipulação de mercado, casos de abuso de poder
de controle e o uso indevido de informação privilegiada.

Nota-se, todavia, que o mercado de valores mobiliários ainda não atingiu, no Brasil, a representatividade
alcançada pelos seus congêneres nas economias mais desenvolvidas. Em conseqüência, verifica-se a
necessidade da adoção de medidas que estimulem não apenas a demanda pelos ativos financeiros nele
negociados, mas também desenvolvam uma eficiente estrutura regulatória, cujo foco esteja voltado,
principalmente, para a divulgação de informações de maior qualidade, bem como para a transparência
desse mercado.

Apoio dos Organismos Financeiros Internacionais às Reformas

O Governo brasileiro, para melhor exercer suas atribuições, vem implementando um programa de
reformas do setor financeiro que conta com o apoio de organismos financeiros internacionais,
notadamente do Banco Mundial, cuja parceria resultou na concessão do segundo empréstimo para
ajuste deste setor, no valor de US$ 400 milhões.

No que se refere ao mercado sob a supervisão da CVM, o programa ajustado com o Banco Mundial apoia
medidas que consideramos adequadas para o seu desenvolvimento, tanto por estimularem a demanda por
valores mobiliários por parte de investidores locais e internacionais, quanto por contribuírem para o
desenvolvimento de uma estrutura regulatória eficiente que dê ênfase a aspectos relacionados à divulgação
de informações e à sua transparência.

Neste contexto, cabe destacar que é possível observar alguns avanços no âmbito do mercado de capitais
brasileiro, em virtude da edição das Leis nº 10.303/01 e nº 10.411/02 e do Decreto nº 3.295/01, que
alteraram as Leis nº 6.385/76 e nº 6.404/76, que regem, respectivamente, o mercado de valores mobiliários
e as sociedades por ações. Tais normativos, que fazem parte da política de estímulo ao mercado de valores
mobiliários brasileiro, buscam fortalecer institucionalmente a CVM, induzindo as companhias abertas a
adotarem boas práticas de governança corporativa e ampliando e adequando a tipificação dos crimes contra
os mercados de capitais, mediante o estabelecimento de penalidades mais rigorosas para as condutas ilícitas
detectadas.

Sustentabilidade do Empréstimo e do Programa e o Desempenho do Banco e do Devedor

Os resultados já obtidos recomendam não apenas a continuidade do relacionamento com o Banco


                                                    - 56 -

Mundial, mas também o seu aprimoramento, e a criação de outros mecanismos que possam assegurar a
destinação de um maior volume de recursos financeiros para o fortalecimento do mercado de valores
mobiliários brasileiro.

Experiência Adquirida

Nesse processo de ajuste, merece destaque a participação do Banco Mundial, na medida em que tal
organismo tem viabilizado o acesso às melhores práticas adotadas pelo mercado de capitais de outros
países, contribuindo, de forma decisiva, para que os objetivos propostos no segundo empréstimo sejam
gradativamente alcançados.




                                                - 57 -

Additional Annex 10. Comments Received from the CVM (Portuguese original)

Avaliação do Segundo Empréstimo do BIRD ao Brasil para Ajustamento Estrutural do Setor Financeiro
(SAL)

Missão da Comissão de Valores Mobiliários ­ CVM

A Comissão de Valores Mobiliários do Brasil ­ CVM é um órgão federal vinculado ao Ministério da
Fazenda, criada mediante a Lei 6385, de 7 de Dezembro de 1976, sendo dotada de poderes para disciplinar,
reger e supervisionar as atividades dos participantes do mercado de valores mobiliários.

No desempenho de suas atribuições, a CVM procura assegurar a transparência e a fidedignidade das
informações divulgadas ao mercado, bem como dos registros efetuados no âmbito do sistema de
distribuição de valores mobiliários, além de pautar sua atuação na rigorosa averiguação da ocorrência
de possíveis ilícitos, dentre os quais podemos citar a manipulação de mercado, casos de abuso de poder
de controle e o uso indevido de informação privilegiada.

Nota-se, todavia, que o mercado de valores mobiliários ainda não atingiu, no Brasil, a representatividade
alcançada pelos seus congêneres nas economias mais desenvolvidas. Em conseqüência, verifica-se a
necessidade da adoção de medidas que estimulem não apenas a demanda pelos ativos financeiros nele
negociados, mas também desenvolvam uma eficiente estrutura regulatória, cujo foco esteja voltado,
principalmente, para a divulgação de informações de maior qualidade, bem como para a transparência
desse mercado.

Apoio dos Organismos Financeiros Internacionais às Reformas

O Governo brasileiro, para melhor exercer suas atribuições, vem implementando um programa de
reformas do setor financeiro que conta com o apoio de organismos financeiros internacionais,
notadamente do Banco Mundial, cuja parceria resultou na concessão do segundo empréstimo para
ajuste deste setor, no valor de US$ 400 milhões.

No que se refere ao mercado sob a supervisão da CVM, o programa ajustado com o Banco Mundial apoia
medidas que consideramos adequadas para o seu desenvolvimento, tanto por estimularem a demanda por
valores mobiliários por parte de investidores locais e internacionais, quanto por contribuírem para o
desenvolvimento de uma estrutura regulatória eficiente que dê ênfase a aspectos relacionados à divulgação
de informações e à sua transparência.

Neste contexto, cabe destacar que é possível observar alguns avanços no âmbito do mercado de capitais
brasileiro, em virtude da edição das Leis nº 10.303/01 e nº 10.411/02 e do Decreto nº 3.295/01, que
alteraram as Leis nº 6.385/76 e nº 6.404/76, que regem, respectivamente, o mercado de valores mobiliários
e as sociedades por ações. Tais normativos, que fazem parte da política de estímulo ao mercado de valores
mobiliários brasileiro, buscam fortalecer institucionalmente a CVM, induzindo as companhias abertas a
adotarem boas práticas de governança corporativa e ampliando e adequando a tipificação dos crimes contra
os mercados de capitais, mediante o estabelecimento de penalidades mais rigorosas para as condutas ilícitas
detectadas.

Sustentabilidade do Empréstimo e do Programa e o Desempenho do Banco e do Devedor

Os resultados já obtidos recomendam não apenas a continuidade do relacionamento com o Banco


                                                    - 58 -

Mundial, mas também o seu aprimoramento, e a criação de outros mecanismos que possam assegurar a
destinação de um maior volume de recursos financeiros para o fortalecimento do mercado de valores
mobiliários brasileiro.

Experiência Adquirida

Nesse processo de ajuste, merece destaque a participação do Banco Mundial, na medida em que tal
organismo tem viabilizado o acesso às melhores práticas adotadas pelo mercado de capitais de outros
países, contribuindo, de forma decisiva, para que os objetivos propostos no segundo empréstimo sejam
gradativamente alcançados.




                                                - 59 -

- 60 -

