Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7121 – BR
Loan Agreement
(Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 23, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7121 - BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 2002, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF 
BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to the loan provided to the Borrower under the Loan 
Agreement dated June 5, 2001 (Loan No. 7046-BR), the Bank has provided assistance to the 
Borrower in support of the first phase of the Borrower's program of actions, objectives and 
policies for the reform of its financial sector (the Program), as such program was described in the 
letter, dated April 23, 2001, from the Borrower to the Bank;
(B)
the Bank has received a letter, dated May 14, 2002, from the Borrower: (i) 
describing its macroeconomic framework and the Program as revised since the date of the letter 
referred to in (A) above, which Program consists of actions taken under the first phase referred to 
in (A) above, actions taken as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Second Phase of 
the Program), and actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the future; 
(ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(C)
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to 
the Bank; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support of the 
Second Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the second phase of the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 3.08 is modified to read:
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall be 
made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is not the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the Borrower, shall 
Page  3
purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the Loan Account the 
currency of such deposit account as shall be required to deposit the withdrawn 
amount into such deposit account.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General Conditions.”;
(d)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the second phase of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 and 
9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Central Bank” means 
Banco Central do Brasil
, the Borrower's central bank;
(b)
“CMN” means 
Conselho Monetário Nacional
,
the Borrower’s national monetary 
council;
(c)
“CPMF” means 
Contribuicão Provisória sobre Movimentacão ou Transmissão 
de Valores e de Créditos e Direitos de Natureza Financeira
,
the temporary tax on financial 
transactions, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 9311, of October 24, 1996;
(d)
“CVM” means 
Comissão de Valores Mobiliários
,
the Borrower’s securities and 
exchange commission; and
(e)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Page  4
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred four million forty 
thousand Dollars ($404,040,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of three hundred ninety-nine million nine 
hundred ninety-nine thousand six hundred Dollars ($399,999,600) from the Loan Account in 
support of the Second Phase of the Program.
(b)
Prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank a deposit account 
in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All withdrawals of the amount 
referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the 
Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, 
or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the 
Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount 
of said fee.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
Page  5
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at the Variable 
Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on 
March 15, 2012.
Section 2.09.
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program, or any action specified in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  6
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program.
(b)
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the 
achievement of the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly registered with the Central 
Bank.
Section 5.02.  The date September 23, 2002, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
Page  7
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Sônia de Almendra Freitas Portella Nunes
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinod Thomas
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                          
-
Alcoholic beverages
121                          
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122                          
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
Page  9
525                          
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                         
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728                       
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897                         
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                         
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
Page  10
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Second Phase of the Program
1. 
The following actions have been taken for the improvement of financial services 
intermediation efficiency and access to financial services by the under-served population:
(a)
The Central Bank has: (i) expanded the range of information it provides to 
financial institutions on credit operations, in its credit risk center, to cover operations in the 
amount of five thousand Brazilian 
reais 
(RS$5,000) or more, as provided in Central Bank’s 
Circular No. 3098, of March 20, 2002; (ii) issued, pursuant to CMN Resolution No. 2874, of July 
26, 2001, instructions on information to be provided by small financial institutions (
sociedades 
de crédito ao micro-empreendedor
)
on
their credit operations; (iii) signed a contract, on January 
17, 2002, with a consultant to assist the Central Bank in the expansion of the information 
provided by the Central Bank’s risk center to include data on good credit behavior by borrowers, 
and to enable financial institutions to have access to such information; and (iv) included 
information on such credit risk center in the Central Bank’s web site. 
(b)
The Borrower’s 
Medida Provisória
 No. 1925, of October 14, 1999, which 
created a new lending security (the 
Cédula de Crédito Bancário
), has become not subject to 
periodic renewals in order to continue to be valid, pursuant to Constitutional Amendment No. 32, 
of September 11, 2001, and, in consequence, wider use of such security is expected.  The 
Cédula 
de Crédito Bancário
 is a security representing a bank credit, the amount of interest and other 
charges on debt represented by such security is not subject to disputes, and the collection of such 
debt is done through speedier judicial enforcement procedures. 
(c)
Commercial banks have been required to: (i) provide more detailed information 
on bank accounts to their clients, including credit history, financing operations, average monthly 
balances, financial fees and charges for overdrafts, pursuant to CMN Resolution No. 2835, of 
May 30, 2001; and (ii) abide by the rules on transparency, discipline, competition and reliability, 
as specified in CMN Resolution 2878, of July 26, 2001, regarding rules regulating banking 
consumer protection.
(d)
Two studies, dated June 2001 and July 2001, respectively, were carried out by 
the Central Bank, and published on the Central Bank’s website, to assess the impact of the CPMF 
on the financial system.
(e)
Proposal No. 407/2002, submitted by the Borrower’s Executive Branch to the 
Borrower’s Congress for adding a new Article 85 to the Borrower’s 
Ato das Disposições 
Constitucionais Transitórias
 (transitory provisions of the Borrower’s Constitution), which 
provides, inter alia, that stock market transactions are not subject to CPMF, was approved by the 
Borrower’s House of Representatives (
Câmara dos Deputados
)
on
April 23, 2002, and has been 
Page  11
sent for the consideration of the Borrower’s Senate.
(f)
A draft of a law amending the Borrower’s Law 4591, of December 16, 1964 
(Law on the housing financial system), is under preparation on the modernization of the housing 
finance system, to include, inter alia, new approaches for savings deposits and housing finance.
(g)
Reports by four investigative committees of 
Comunidade Solidária
 on access to 
micro-financing have been completed and a strategy to expand financial services through 
microfinance institutions has been formulated, as detailed in 
Comunidade Solidária
’s document 
entitled 
A
Expansão do Microcrédito no Brasil, of
 October 4, 2001.  (
Comunidade Solidária
 is 
the entity responsible for promoting citizen partnerships between the government and civil 
society in the fight against poverty and social exclusion in Brazil.)
(h)
Serviço Brasileiro de Apoio às Micro e Pequenas Empresas 
(SEBRAE), the 
Borrower’s entity that supports micro and small enterprises, has expanded its services to include 
special programs of credit for micro-enterprises, pursuant to public announcements of October 4, 
2001.
(i)
Access of micro credit firms to financing has been broadened, pursuant to CMN 
Resolution No. 2878, of July 26, 2001.
(j)
A franchise has been granted, on January 2, 2002, to a financial institution for 
the provision of financial services through the post office network.
(k)
Portaria
 No. 554, dated December 12, 2001, of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance, has authorized individual persons to purchase, through the internet, bonds issued by the 
Borrower, under the program known as “
Tesouro Direto
”.
(l)
Cédula de Crédito Imobiliário
,
a
security representing a real estate credit, which 
may be issued by institutions other than banks, such as real estate companies, in order to sell 
their real estate credit receivables, has been created pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Medida 
Provisória 
No. 2223, of September 4, 2001.
(m)
The Borrower’s 
Medida Provisória
 No. 2221, of September 4, 2001, has 
introduced the concept of 
patrimônio de afetação
,
a
trust-like institution which separates assets 
of a housing construction company for a specific real estate project from the other assets of that 
company itself, so that the former may not be attached or seized in the event of bankruptcy of 
such company, giving greater security to participants in housing schemes and to housing finance 
plans sponsored by constructors.
(n)
Use of fiduciary alienation (
Alienação Fiduciária
)
as a security for real estate 
financing has been broadened, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Medida Provisória
 No. 2223, of 
September 4, 2001. 
2.
The following actions have been taken by the Central Bank in the areas of banking 
Page  12
system soundness and safety net:
(a)
The Central Bank’s off-site banking surveillance system, which enables banking 
supervisors to better assess bank risks, has become fully operational.
(b)
Manuals containing guidelines for bank supervisors to carry out bank 
supervision are substantially complete. 
(c)
Design of a new bank rating system is substantially advanced.
(d)
(i) Central Bank’s Circular No. 3068, of November 8, 2001, has established 
criteria for the valuation and disclosure of securities, requiring securities to be marked to market, 
and requiring also a distinction between securities held for cash, trading, or holding to maturity 
and for the separation of these for the accounting registry; (ii) Central Bank’s Circular No. 3082, 
of January 30, 2002, on derivative financial instruments has provided that these are to be marked 
to market, and has strengthened hedge accounting by requiring the specification of credit versus 
market risk hedges; (iii) the Borrower’s 
Medida Provisória
 No. 2192-70, of August 24, 2001, has 
established rules on the netting of derivative obligations; (iv) Central Bank’s Communiqué No 
9253, of February 8, 2002, has authorized swaps, forward and options contracts; and (v) CMN 
Resolution 2.933, of February 28, 2002, has provided a framework for credit derivatives.
(e)
The Central Bank has required financial institutions to provide quarterly 
financial reports to the Central Bank (Circular 2990, of June 28, 2000, with effect on March 31, 
2001).
(f)
A proposal for a bank failure framework is being formulated by a high level 
consultant contracted by the Central Bank and an advanced draft thereof was prepared in May 
2002.
(g)
The 
Fundo Garantidor de Créditos
 (the deposit insurance institution) has 
submitted, on February 21, 2002, a proposal, for the Central Bank’s approval, of an amendment 
to its statutes that would broaden the financing options of such institution and delegate more 
responsibility to its management.
(h)
The Central Bank has prepared, in May 2001, a blueprint of a bank crisis 
contingency plan.
3.
The following actions have been taken in the areas of payment systems and securities 
clearance and settlement:
(a)
A new system (
Sistema Brasileiro de Pagamentos
)
was launched by the Central 
Bank and the banking system, on April 22, 2002, to reduce systemic risk in the financial sector 
and the Central Bank’s exposure to loss in the settlement of bank payments, and to ensure 
Page  13
finality of payments.
(b)
Guidelines have been issued on monitoring of bank reserve accounts, statutes of 
clearing houses and settlement of securities through a private clearing system (known as CETIP), 
pursuant to Central Bank’s Circulars Nos. 3057, of August 31, 2001, and 3100, of March 28, 
2002, and CMN Resolution No. 2882, of August 30, 2001. 
4.
The following actions have been taken in the area of securities markets:
(a)
The Borrower’s Law No.10303, of October 31, 2001, which amended the 
Borrower’s Law No. 6404, of December 15, 1976 (the Corporate Law), to, inter alia, strengthen 
companies’ governance framework and increase rights of minority shareholders, has become 
effective.
(b)
CVM has issued: (i) Instruction No. 358, of January 3, 2002, regulating and 
strengthening the disclosure of securities-related material information; and (ii) Instruction No. 
361, of March 5, 2002, regulating mandatory tender offers to minority shareholders.
(c)
The Borrower’s Administrative Council of Complementary Pension Funds has 
determined, pursuant to Resolution No. 1, of December 19, 2001, that pension funds’ 
representatives must disclose the content of their votes in shareholders’ meetings of corporations 
in which such pension funds hold shares, and justify any absence from, or abstention to vote in, 
any such meeting.
(d)
The Borrower’s Law No.10411, of February 26, 2002, and Presidential Decree 
No. 3995, of October 31, 2001, which amended the Borrower’s Law No. 6385, of December 7, 
1976 (the Law establishing CVM and certain stock market rules), to, inter alia, increase CVM’s 
legal autonomy and independence, strengthen its enforcement capacity, and provide for the 
regulation of all mutual funds by CVM, have become effective.
(e)
(i) The Borrower’s Secretariat of Complementary Pension Funds has issued a 
regulation, pursuant to Resolution No. 4, of January 30, 2002, requiring pension funds to match 
the duration of their assets and liabilities; and (ii) Central Bank’s Circular No. 3086, of February 
15, 2002, has regulated securities registry by investment funds, establishing mark-to-market 
pricing, and classifying securities as trading or held-to-maturity for the purpose of accounting 
registry and evaluation;
5.
The following actions have been taken regarding public bank reform:
(a)
The first phase of the restructuring of deposit-taking public banks controlled by 
the Borrower has been launched with the issuance of the Borrower’s 
Medida Provisória
 No. 
2196-3, of August 24, 2001, pursuant to which the Borrower’s federal government is required to: 
(i) restore the financial condition of such banks, recognizing and absorbing their past losses; (ii) 
assume risks and costs of public policy programs managed by such banks; (iii) net out accounts 
of such banks with the Borrower’s federal government; and (iv) establish special debt for bonds 
swap programs for such banks; and (v) set up EMGEA (
Empresa Gestora de Ativos
)
for the 
Page  14
management and resolution of bank impaired assets.
(b)
A blueprint has been prepared by the Central Bank for time-bound and 
monitorable action plans for future proposed phases of the restructuring of the banks referred to 
in (a) above in order to sustain their re-capitalization, including: (i) leveraging management 
layers; (ii) diversifying business away from targeted sectors; (iii) separating activities by major 
business lines, especially those related to the Borrower’s federal government; (iv) improving 
management information systems to enable performance monitoring on a risk adjusted basis; and 
(v) improving controls in internal systems.
(c)
A second round of inspection of federal banks with regard to selected issues has 
been initiated by the Central Bank in 2002.
(d)
Official announcement has been published in newspapers of wide circulation in 
Brazil of the Borrower’s intention to call a general shareholders’ meeting of Banco do Brasil 
S.A. to approve an amendment to the charter of such bank that will enable the shares of such 
bank to be negotiated in the separate market (known as 
Novo Mercado
)
established by the São 
Paulo stock exchange for the negotiation of shares of companies that have adopted good 
governance practices.
(e)
The former banks controlled by the States of Paraíba, Goiás and Amazonas have 
been privatized on November 8, 2001, December 3, 2001 and January 24, 2002, respectively.
6.
Proposal No. 53/1999, submitted by the Borrower’s Executive Branch to the Borrower’s 
Congress for an amendment to Article 192 of the Borrower’s Constitution (which governs the 
Borrower’s financial system), was approved by the Borrower’s Senate on June 10, 1999, and by 
the Special Committee of the Borrower’s House of Representatives (
Câmara dos Deputados
)
on
August 8, 2001.  Such amendment, if approved by the Congress, will permit the regulation of the 
several areas of the Borrower’s financial system through different complementary laws, instead 
of just one complementary law, as presently required.
