Report No. PID9352
Project Name                     Sri Lanka-Distance Learning Project (@)
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Institutional Development
Project ID                       LKPE69784
Borrower(s)                      SRI LANKA
Implementing Agency
Address DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER LTD.
Distance Learning Center Company
28/10 Malalasekere Mawatha, Colombo 7, Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Mr. Prabath Gunathunga
Tel: 94-1-587671
Fax: 94-1-584406
Email: slidadlc@sltnet.lk
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 9, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 6, 2000
Projected Board Date             February 20, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
BACKGROUND: Sri Lanka was the first South Asian state to liberalize its
economy in 1977. However, insufficient exposure to international
experience and policy trends limited the follow-up process of individual
sector reform. Key stakeholders fearful of change were unaware of how
similar concerns were addressed in other countries. The proposed LIL is
intended to bridge this knowledge gap in support of market
reform.Moreover, the public sector has not adequately adapted to the
liberalized economy. There is a need to examine the role of the
bureaucracy, its interface with the private sector, access to technology
and human resource capacity in the context of the modern demands of
business and civil society. Sri Lanka is confronted with serious
shortfalls in governance, be it the capacity to plan at the center,
implement decisions at the periphery or ensure corporate governance. The
scrutiny of public finances is weak at all levels of government. Internal
control and audit systems have not been modernized in line with
international best practice, the liberalized economy and devolution. The
existing civil service culture hinders good governance, accountability and
transparency. The reform of the civil service is needed for an
institutional framework supportive of market-led growth. The Government
has set up a 'Public Service Management Development Authority' (PSMDA) to
address these issues.While distance learning alone will not resolve the
shortcomings of public administration, it will nonetheless facilitate
improved governance through knowledge transfer. It will expose local
decision-makers to international best practice and enhance the skills of
local decision-makers in the priority areas of economics, finance and
management. There is at present no incentive for a civil servant to
undergo training since it does not determine his or her career prospects.
The absence of mandatory on-the-job training for civil servants impacts
negatively on administrative capacity. The PSMDA recommends an Annual



Performance Review to decide promotions, increases in remuneration and
training in the civil service. It proposes amendments to the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service Minute to this effect. If this were to be
implemented, it will increase civil service training as a whole.The
internet, e-business and WTO-led trade liberalization have reinforced the
globalization of markets and a degree of convergence in business
operations. Improved corporate governance is therefore needed to
facilitate strategic international partnerships. Sri Lanka is still short
of the skills required in this context. The private sector lacks exposure
to the latest trends in corporate finance and management. It lacks the
supporting institutions and human resources that are critical to sound
corporate governance. Several senior executives are due to retire while
new leaders are poised to take over. Knowledge enhancement and skills
development are needed in this transitional context. Distance learning
course modules relayed from international institutions will strengthen
corporate management while access to the latest technical information will
allow the Sri Lankan private sector to effectively compete in the global
economy. The recent proliferation of private training institutions in Sri
Lanka is reflective of the demand for global knowledge in a fast changing
world. However, these management institutes still lack real time access to
the latest training materials, case studies and technical information from
top notch accredited international content providers committed to
excellence. The professional training system largely entails bringing
individual experts to teach a course to a limited audience in Sri Lanka or
sending a restricted number of persons abroad for training. This
piece-meal approach is of insufficient scale to promote market reforms or
enhance capacity in the public and private sectors. Neither is it
cost-effective. The strategy of the Government is to introduce the
distance learning method to complement existing training programs in the
country and strengthen the scope of such programs. Multi-media
internet-based distance learning will focus on global knowledge,
governance and policy reform at lower cost. Distance learning will be a
public-private partnership committed to serve the training needs of both
sectors effectively.EXISTING TRAINING PROGRAMS: The Sri Lanka Institute
for Development Administration (SLIDA), incorporated by an Act of
Parliament in 1982, is the training arm of the civil service. It trains
3000 senior and middle-level civil servants each year, and inducts new
recruits into the administrative service. It has 17 full time resource
persons and several part-time lecturers. The Treasury funds 85t of the
SLIDA budget while the rest is earned from course fees charged to the
private sector, management consultancies and customized training. It
identifies the course curriculum in keeping with official policy
requirements, regular needs assessments and the feedback of past trainees.
Internet-based distance learning will increase SLIDA's live access to
relevant international experience, latest policy trends and specialized
knowledge. It will facilitate increased policy debate within the civil
service on current development issues. Distance learning will offer an
increased range of courses that will keep pace with developments in the
international arena and more positively impact on administrative capacity
within Sri Lanka. The Sri Lanka Institute of Local Governance (SLILG), was
incorporated by an Act of Parliament in September 1999. The Thirteenth
Amendment to the Constitution (1987) devolved several administrative
responsibilities to the eight provinces. The provincial bureaucracy,
however, lacked the financial management and strategic planning skills to
take on the responsibilities assigned to it. To date, no province has been
- 2-



able to develop a corporate plan or enact relevant legislation. Rural
divisional secretaries lack internet connectivity and exposure to global
knowledge. The 'Commission of Inquiry on Local Government Reforms' in 1999
emphasized the need to build capacity at the local level. SLILG endeavors
to rectify the widespread lack of capacity and supports eight
provincial-level "Management Development Training Units" (MDTU) to train
provincial civil servants. SLILG, with a training budget of Rs 16
million, now has 100 external resource persons. It develops course
curricula for the MDTUs, trains provincial-level trainers, holds workshops
for senior provincial bureaucrats and undertakes consultancy assignments
for provincial line agencies. As a new institution, SLILG still lacks the
expertise to effectively train grass roots government officers in
management. Most MDTUs are not fully functional either.The overall
training required at present in the devolved authorities is of a
rudimentary nature. Internet-based distance learning will not be the best
instrument to address such needs. The English language course modules and
the required level of expertise prevent middle-level provincial cadre from
effectively using the Distance Learning Center (DLC). The limited size of
the provincial and local government budgets also pre-empts the extensive
use of DLC facilities.Senior grades in the provincial and local levels,
however, can avail themselves of distance learning modules in financial
management, policy analysis and broad development issues. The Government
intends to approach other donors to support the initial training of
provincial chief secretaries, deputy chief secretaries, secretaries to
provincial ministries and divisional secretaries on a pilot basis.
Distance learning will vastly enhance training opportunities and link
grass-roots decision-makers to the borderless world of knowledge.The Sri
Lanka Institute of Directors (SLID), established by the Ceylon Chamber of
Commerce under the Company's Act in April 2000, was envisioned to provide
training and development support for corporate executives. It emerged in
response to a broad demand for education in corporate governance,
currently unavailable in Sri Lanka. SLID, soon to be converted into an
independent body, is in the process of developing a training program for
business managers. It acts as an information resource and discussion forum
for private directors. SLID has a membership of 735 Directors, Senior
Managers and Corporate Partners. It organizes breakfast meetings on
e-commerce and corporate governance, and external diploma programs for
directors at the Chartered Institute of Directors in London, the
University of Ulster and the Wharton School of Business in Singapore. In a
survey of its membership carried out in August, 2000, most directors
identified web-based learning experiences and distance learning programs
in corporate governance, e-business and the legal ramifications of
directorship as a priority.The Distance Learning Project is intended in
part to strengthen the SLID program by linking it to international best
practice. The real-time transfer of specialized knowledge will enable
trained directors to effectively exercise their responsibilities of
oversight and fiduciary control over management.The Center For Banking
Studies, affiliated to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, offers course
modules in commercial and investment banking, fund management, risk
management and financial sector development. The courses offered vary in
duration from one year diploma programs to half-day workshops on specific
topics. Despite a partnership with international training institutes, the
Central Bank still needs to either send staff abroad for more specialized
training or bring international experts. Both options are expensive and
largely dependent on the availability of donor funds. Expenditure related
-3 -



to airfare and per-diems are significant, notwithstanding donor-financed
course fee exemptions. Distance Learning is intended to reduce the costs
of training, widen the technical exposure and complement the Center's
existing program by promoting a transfer of knowledge through
satellite-based technology. It will beef up the curriculum through
increased international inputs and help strengthen the domestic
environment for financial sector reform.The Skills Development Fund (SDF)
was established in early 2000 in keeping with the recommendations of the
'Presidential Task Force on Tertiary Education and Vocational Training' to
introduce a training culture in the public and private sectors. It
provides (i) job entry training for new recruits; (ii) on-the-job training
for managers; and (iii) retraining to facilitate retrenchment and flexible
labor markets. The Government owns 90t of its shares and intends to divest
this through a private offering in November 2001 and a public offering one
year thereafter. The SDF, a Board of Investment registered company,
provides a needs analysis for individual firms and then designs a
customized training program using external resource persons registered
with it. It is envisaged that the SDF will incorporate distance learning
modules in its training programs. The DLC Company, likewise, will rely on
the SDF to undertake regular needs assessments on its behalf. Corporate
conglomerates such as Maharajahs and Ceylinco Consolidated have set up
their own training institutes i.e. the Maharajah Institute of Management
and the Ceylinco-owned International College of Business and Technology.
These are fully owned subsidiaries of the parent company and are intended
in part to upgrade the skills of employees, provide a foreign MBA
education within Sri Lanka, and help introduce international best practice
and knowledge to corporate staff. It is envisaged that distance learning
modules will be included in their training programs and DLC facilities
used for the purpose. Ceylinco Consolidated is a multi-million dollar Sri
Lankan conglomerate established in 1939. Its training institutes include
the International College of Business Technology, Ceylinco Insurance
College, the Ceylinco Institute of Excellence, the Colombo Business School
and the Seylan Bank Training Center. It has identified international
training partners such as the University of Western Sydney, the South
Australian Tertiary and Further Education Program, the National University
of Singapore and the Abdul Razzak University in Malaysia to educate local
cadre in the latest business and management practices. Ceylinco itself has
a vision of tele-education and is eager to participate in the management
of the DLC Company. The public and private initiatives referred to above
were intended to strengthen capacity through improved training. The
proposed distance learning project, a public-private partnership, will
increase the scope of such programs and ensure international standards.
The latest internet-based courses, with a focus on global knowledge,
governance and policy reform will support current efforts to enhance
capacity in Sri Lanka.DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER: The Government
incorporated the DLC Company in June, 2000 and registered it under the
Company's Act in September, 2000. The Ministry of Finance owns 100t of the
DLC Company's shares. It plans to divest 49t of the Company's shareholding
once the market base is developed and the DLC is financially viable. This
is anticipated in the fourth year of DLC's operations. SLID and Ceylinco
Consolidated, for instance, are keen to buy shares of the DLC Company to
ensure that it meets their training needs. The DLC Business Plan, expected
to be finalized in March, 2001, will define the strategy and timeline for
divestment. An accounting firm will be hired to price the shares and
oversee the sale thereof. The DLC Company will relay relevant courses
- 4 -



developed by international distance learning institutes while trained
local experts will facilitate the delivery of such courses. The Company
will benefit from the products offered by the Global Distance Learning
Network (GDLN) of the WBI, the Monterey Institute of Technology in Mexico,
City University of Hong Kong, Open University of Hong Kong, the Singapore
campus of the University of Chicago, Waseda University in Japan, Monash
University, the University of Adelaide in Australia, the WTO and ILO. The
DLC Company will identify training courses available abroad with the
active participation of potential clients. It hired a market research firm
which surveyed government departments, the private sector and financial
institutions in October, November and December, 2000. The market survey
assessed client interest and ability to pay for courses offered. The
survey reveals that a significant demand exists in Sri Lanka for
internationally-relayed distance learning courses. The survey findings,
included in the project files, will be used to develop a course
curriculum, price courses and prepare the DLC business plan. The business
plan, in turn, will define the long term strategy of the Company,
delineate a plan to ensure cost recovery and lay out a timeline for
partial privatization. It is envisioned that user fees charged by the DLC
Company will cover operating costs by the end of the fourth year of
operations. Its pricing policy will be designed to attract more clients
for DLC services, allow for gradual cost recovery and ensure a sustainable
market share. A solid precedent exists for the fee-based delivery of
training workshops and courses in Sri Lanka. The private sector has
demonstrated its willingness to pay as seen in the newer management
institutes that have arisen in Colombo. Organizations such as the
Maharajah Institute of Management, Ceylinco's International College of
Business Technology and the SDF, for instance, provide customized training
programs at commercial rates. The DLC Company will charge Government
officials for the courses offered at initially subsidized rates. This will
ensure that only those capable and eager to be trained will be nominated
by their supervisor to attend courses.It is anticipated that DLC
facilities will be reserved in part for the use of high revenue earning
programs targeted at the clientele of SLID, Ceylinco and the SDF. This
will ensure steady returns and financial viability in a few years.The
market strategy will facilitate publicity, create demand for programs and
enhance the attractiveness of the hitherto untested distance learning
method. A consultancy firm will be hired in March, 2001 to develop the
strategy and promote the DLC. High profile workshops targeted at senior
bureaucrats and corporate executives will be relayed to help consolidate
initial market demand.
2. Objectives
The Project will pilot a distance learning initiative to (a) strengthen
the environment for policy reforms and (b) build capacity in the public
and private sectors. Distance Learning will facilitate the increased
dissemination of the latest technical information and cross-country
experience in support of market reforms. Senior public and private sector
decision-makers will access interactive multi-media and internet-based
training programs developed by the World Bank Institute (WBI), major
universities, private corporations and technical organizations around the
world. This exposure to global knowledge will enhance the capacity of Sri
Lankan decision-makers to conceptualize and implement reforms. The
introduction of better policies will, in turn, lead to improved
governance, poverty reduction and economic growth. An IDA Learning and
- 5 -



Innovation Loan (LIL) will support the establishment and operation of the
Distance Learning Center (DLC) Company in Sri Lanka.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
N/A for a LIL
4. Description
The Project will have one component i.e. support for the establishment and
operation of the DLC Company. It will help the DLC Company to initiate
operations and achieve financial viability. The single component includes
several activities i.e. the (a) selection and relay of distance learning
course material; (b) financing of DLC operating costs on a decreasing
basis over the first four years of operation; (c) technical assistance for
staff training, a market survey, development of a business plan, a market
campaign, and periodic evaluation of center operation/management
effectiveness; (d) establishment of financial accounts/annual audits; (e)
civil works; and (f) purchase, installation and initial maintenance of
distance learning technology. The civil works entails the construction of
a fourth floor in SLIDA to house the proposed DLC with a videoconference
room to accommodate 35 persons, two computer rooms outfitted for 20
computer stations each, and an administrative office. The procurement of
equipment for the DLC, includes the purchase and installation of VSAT,
video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, furniture and
other equipment for DLC operation and security. IDA will procure equipment
on behalf of the client to ensure technical compatibility with the GDLN
and economies of scale.The total cost is estimated at US $ 3.1 Million of
which IDA will finance US $ 2 Million. IDA will cover the DLC's initial
deficit in operational revenue, equipment costs and 85t of the costs of
civil works. The DLC in Colombo will be part of a sustainable network of
interactive classrooms in some fifty centers around the world with full
voice, video and data connectivity to the different centers. It will be
designed as a node in the GDLN. The GDLN strategy is to deliver training
to clients close to their place of work; in stages, rather than in one
block of time; to groups from one team in a department, rather than to
only one or two representatives; as a group activity rather than as a
lonely home study; to multiple groups in several countries simultaneously;
as an activity related to problem solving in their workplace; and with
direct applicability to their jobs. To achieve this, a combination of four
main technologies, Videoconferencing, Internet, Cd-rom and Print, will be
used in an integrated manner.The core of the DLC will be two
technology-based class rooms reflecting the specific requirements of the
distance learning method. One room will be used for "live" (or
synchronous) video interaction between local course participants, remote
instructors and international participants, while the second room will be
used for independent, time-flexible (asynchronous), internet-based study.
Connectivity will be achieved through a "Very Small Aperture Terminal"
(VSAT) satellite antenna similar to that provided at World Bank Field
Offices.
Investment Cost
a.Civil Works (Buildings, lifts, AC)
b.Equipment (DLC, LAN, Telecom, Furniture etc.)
c.Consultancy (Market Survey, Business Plan etc.) and Training
PPF Finances
Operating Costs
-6-



a. Satellite Bandwidth and servicing
b. Personnel
d. Other costs (utilities, telephone, variable costs)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       3
6. Implementation
Implementing Agency: The DLC Company located in the SLIDA premises, will
implement the project. It was incorporated in June, 2000 and registered
under the Company's Act in September, 2000 with an initial share capital
of Rs 250 Million. A Board of Directors governs the DLC Company. Its
members include nominees of the Ministry of Public Administration, the
Ministry of Finance, Center for Banking Studies, SLID, Ceylinco
Consolidated and SDF.The Board of Directors will define corporate policy,
oversee management, approve the annual business plan, assess the DLC's
financial statements and ensure that the DLC Company is financially
self-sustaining over time. The Board will ensure the participation of the
public and private sector in curriculum development.Daily management of
the Center is entrusted to a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) who was
appointed in July, 2000 on the basis of proven experience in enterprise
management. A team consisting of an IT expert, a facilitator/trainer, an
experienced accountant and an office assistant will be recruited over the
next four months to support the CEO. An accountant from SLIDA has been
seconded to the DLC Company to work in the interim on a part time
basis.Project PreparationThis includes incorporation of the DLC Company
(legal procedures, nomination of Board members, appointment of the CEO),
the selection of course curricula, and designing the proposed site
(video-conference room, computer room etc. SLIDA handled initial project
preparation and will continue to oversee construction activity. The CEO
co-ordinated project preparation activities since July, 2000. The cost of
project preparation is being financed largely through an IDA PPF of US $
100,000 approved in April, 2000. The DLC Company is satisfactorily
maintaining the PPF accounts.The DLC Company hired a market research firm
in September, 2000 to survey potential clients, elicit learning priorities
and recommend a feasible fee structure. The Market Survey was completed in
December, 2000 and its findings are included in the project files. The
Company will develop the course curriculum in early 2001 by incorporating
client preferences captured by the survey. It will submit an initial
Business Plan for IDA review and approval in March, 2001. The plan will
outline the corporate vision, developmental strategy, courses to be
offered, stakeholders to be targeted, financial projections, and a
timeline for divestment. The consultant, funded out of PPF funds,
completed the relevant architectural drawings, finalized technical
specifications, BoQ and bid documents in July, 2000. The DLC Company
invited bids in August and awarded the contract in November, 2000. IDA
procurement guidelines were followed. It is anticipated that the civil
works will be completed by April 30, 2001. The Bank's ISG will provide
assistance and expertise to procure, install and test videoconferencing
equipment in May 2001. The DLC is expected to start operations in June,
2001.Project ImplementationThe DLC Company will continuously assess demand
for training, identify and program appropriate training courses available
overseas, and market the center. It will partner with different training
institutes to further its outreach. The DLC Company will target its
-7 -



program at senior decision-makers at the central and provincial public
service, the private sector and the financial sector. It will partner with
SLIDA to train civil servants; with SLILG to reach out to senior
provincial administrators; with SLID, Ceylinco Consolidated and SDF to
educate private sector executives; and with the Center for Banking Studies
to train bankers. The DLC Company will also liaise with relevant
Ministries to disseminate technical information pertinent to increased
private investment in infrastructure/utilities. The Company will develop
and submit Annual Business Plans to IDA by December 1 of each year. The
financial component of the Business Plan will detail the financing of
operational expenses, and specify credit fund proceeds and capital
mobilized by the DLC Company.
7. Sustainability
N/A for a LIL
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
N/A for a LIL
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed back-up diesel power generating unit
will comply with the Government of Sri Lanka's standards for emissions and
noise. The Central Environmental Authority will issue an Environmental
Protection License for the generator and will routinely monitor the DLC
Company's compliance with license conditions. IDA will review compliance
during supervision missions.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Naresha Duraiswamy
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 94-1-5-448070
Fax: 94-1-5-440357
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending, January 12, 2001.
- 8 -



