Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21774-CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR1.6 MILLION
(US$2.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR THE
SRI LANKA: DISTANCE LEARNING PROJECT
February 01, 2001
Finance & Private Sector
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = SRI LANKA RUPEE
SLRs. 1 = US$0.0108
US$1 = SLRs.93
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                                   Country Assistance Strategy
CBS                                   Center for Banking Studies
CEO                                   Chief Executive Officer
DCA                                   Development Credit Agreement
DLC Company                           Distance Learning Center Company
EA                                    Environmental Assessment
FRs                                   Financial Regulations
GDLN                                  Global Distance Learning Network
GoSL                                  Government of Sri Lanka
ICBT                                 International College of Business and Technology
IDA                                   International Development Association
ILO                                   International Labor Organization
ISG                                   Information Services Group
IT                                   Information Technology
LIL                                   Learning and Innovation Loan
MDTU                                  Management Development Training Units
MIS                                   Management Information System
NCB                                   National Competitive Bidding
NS                                    National Shopping
PMR                                   Project Management Reports
PPF                                   Project Preparation Facility
SA                                    Special Account
SDF                                   Skills Development Fund
SLID                                  Sri Lanka Institute of Directors
SLIDA                                 Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
SLILG                                 Sri Lanka Institute of Local Governance
SOE                                   Statement of Expenditures
VSAT                                  Very Small Aperture Terminal
WBI                                   World Bank Institute
WTO                                   World Trade Organization
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Mariana Todorova
Sector Director:    Marilou Uy
Team Leader    Robert Anderson
Task Leader:    Naresha Duraiswamy



SRI LANKA
SRI LANKA: DISTANCE LEARNING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      8
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 10
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      11
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                             13
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             16
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     17
2. Critical risks                                                                     18
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     19
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            19
2. Other                                                                              19



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         20
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         25
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           26
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    30
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     42
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   43
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  44
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            46
MAP(S)



SRI LANKA
Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASFP
Date: February 1, 2001                            Team Leader: Naresha Duraiswamy
Country Manager/Director: Mariana Todorova        Sector Manager/Director: Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project ID: P069784                               Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Public Sector; Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ 1 Loan    [X] Credit    [ Grant       [ ]Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 2.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0                                      Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local ::  - . Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        1.00           0.00          I.00
IDA                                                             0.00           2.00          2.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING               0.00           0.00          0.00
COUNTRY
Total:                                                          1.00           2.00          3.00
Borrower: SRI LANKA
Responsible agency: DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER LTD.
Distance Learning Center Company
Address: 28/10 Malalasekere Mawatha, Colombo 7, Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Mr. Sanath Ediriweera
Tel: 94-1-587671                Fax: 94-1-584406                Email: sanath98@slt.lk
Other Agency(ies):
Department of External Resources, Ministry of Finance
Address: The Secretariat, PO Box 277, Colombo 1
Contact Person: Mr. Faiz Mohideen, Director-General
Tel: 94-1-434876              Fax: 94-1-447633                Email:
Sri Lanka Institute of Directors
Address: 50 Navam Mawatha, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Ms Alikie Ismail
Tel: 94-1-328880              Fax: 94-1-449352                Email: alikie@chamber.Ik



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
jlg~  2        001      2003g    H 2003p &o
Annual    1.10        0.30      0.30       0.30.
Cumulative    1.10       1.40       1.70      2.00
Project implementation period: March 1, 2001-December 31,2004
Expected effectiveness date: 03/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS PM5 F   R.  U  2OD
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project will pilot a distance learning initiative to (a) strengthen the environment for policy reforms and
(b) build capacity in the public and private sectors.
Distance Learning will facilitate the increased dissemination of the latest technical information and
cross-country experience in support of market reforms. Senior public and private sector decision-makers
will access interactive multi-media and internet-based training programs developed by the World Bank
Institute (WBI), major universities, private corporations and technical organizations around the world. This
exposure to global knowledge will enhance the capacity of Sri Lankan decision-makers to conceptualize
and implement reforms. The introduction of better policies will, in turn, lead to improved governance,
poverty reduction and economic growth. An IDA Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) will support the
establishment and operation of the Distance Learning Center (DLC) Company in Sri Lanka.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators will be used to assess the impact of distance learning on the policy environment and
its sustainability in enhancing institutional capacity. The indicators include the (a) number of specific
initiatives introduced that impacts on sector reform in designated areas covered by distance learning (e.g.
pension reform, insurance reform etc. (b) number of trained directors implementing best practice guidelines
on corporate governance; (c) demand for and utilization of distance learning services as demonstrated in
course enrollment; and (d) ability to cover operating expenses through fees (100% of operating expenses to
be covered by revenue generation in the 4th year of project implementation).
An inventory of information obtained will be entered into the DLC MIS. The indicators will be measured
through an in-built monitoring/evaluation mechanism within the MIS. The system will have the capacity to
record relevant information and will include an accounting system that measures the cost and revenue of the
organization. Sector reviews and surveys of trainees will also be used to measure indicators and get an
indication of improvement over time.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS of 5/21/1996 document Number 15633-CE            Date of latest CAS
discussion: The Progress Report of 12/23/98 and the latest CAS discussion of 12/23/98 was discussed in
the Board on 01/19/99. Document Number IDA/R98-190
The preparation of a new CAS began this fiscal year. The CAS emphasizes policy reform and dialogue. It
supports efforts to (a) improve fiscal discipline; (b) promote sustainable private sector-led growth, (c)
enhance the institutional and policy framework for increased investment in infrastructure and (d) address
second generation human resource issues. The Distance Learning LIL will be an important instrument in
the realization of CAS objectives. It will open new opportunities for policy dialogue with a wider audience
within Sri Lanka by facilitating increased access to the latest technical information and international
development expertise. It is a low-cost and high-impact intervention.
The LIL will promote reform by encouraging senior decision makers to rethink the role of the state in
poverty reduction and economic growth in light of international experience and specialized knowledge. The
-3 -



project will facilitate the increased dissemination of international best practice on corporate governance, an
essential ingredient for private sector-led growth. Sri Lanka will be better positioned to bridge the digital
divide, reduce the knowledge gap and participate in the information-based economy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
BACKGROUND: Sri Lanka was the first South Asian country to liberalize its economy in 1977.
However, insufficient exposure to international experience and policy trends limited the follow-up process
of individual sector reform. Key stakeholders fearful of change were unaware of how similar concerns were
addressed in other countries. The proposed LIL is intended to bridge this knowledge gap in support of
market reform.
Moreover, the public sector has not adequately adapted to the liberalized economy. There is a need to
examine the role of the bureaucracy, its interface with the private sector, access to technology and its
human resource capacity in the context of the modem demands of business and civil society.
Sri Lanka is confronted with serious shortfalls in govemance, be it the capacity to plan at the center,
implement decisions at the periphery or ensure corporate govemance. The scrutiny of public finances is
weak at all levels of govemment. Intemal control and audit systems have not been modemized in line with
intemational best practice, the liberalized economy and devolution. The existing civil service culture
hinders good govemance, accountability and transparency. The reform of the civil service is needed for an
institutional framework supportive of market-led growth. The Government has set up a 'Public Service
Management Development Authority' (PSMDA) to address these issues.
There is at present no incentive for a civil servant to undergo training since it does not affect his or her
career prospects. The absence of mandatory on-the-job training for civil servants impacts negatively on
administrative capacity. The PSMDA recommends an Annual Performance Review to decide promotions,
increases in remuneration and training in the civil service. It proposes amendments to the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service Minute to this effect. If this were to be implemented, it will increase civil service
training as a whole.
While distance learning alone will not resolve the shortcomings of public administration, it will nonetheless
facilitate improved governance through knowledge transfer. It will expose local decision-makers to
international best practice and enhance the skills of local decision-makers in the priority areas of
economics, finance and management.
The internet, e-business and WTO-led trade liberalization have reinforced the globalization of markets and
a degree of convergence in business operations. Improved corporate governance is therefore needed to
facilitate strategic international partnerships. Sri Lanka is still short of the skills required in this context.
The private sector lacks exposure to the latest trends in corporate finance and management. It lacks the
supporting institutions and human resources that are critical to sound corporate govemance. Several senior
executives are due to retire while new leaders are poised to take over. Knowledge enhancement and skills
development are needed in this transitional context. Distance leaming course modules relayed from
intemational institutions will strengthen corporate management while access to the latest technical
information will allow the Sri Lankan private sector to effectively compete in the global economy.
The recent proliferation of private training institutions in Sri Lanka is reflective of the demand for global
knowledge in a fast changing world. However, these management institutes still lack real time access to the
latest training materials, case studies and technical information from top notch accredited international
-4 -



content providers committed to excellence. The professional training system largely entails bringing
individual experts to teach a course to a limited audience in Sri Lanka or sending a restricted number of
persons abroad for training. This piece-meal approach is of insufficient scale to promote market reforms or
enhance capacity in the public and private sectors. Neither is it cost-effective.
The strategy of the Government is to introduce the distance learning method to complement existing
training programs in the country and strengthen the scope of such programs. Multi-media internet-based
distance learning will focus on global knowledge, governance and policy reform at lower cost. Distance
learning will be a public-private partnership committed to serve the training needs of both sectors
effectively.
EXISTING TRAINING PROGRAMS: The Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
(SLIDA), incorporated by an Act of Parliament in 1982, is the training arm of the civil service. It trains
3000 senior and middle-level civil servants each year, and inducts new recruits into the administrative
service. It has 17 full time resource persons and several part-time lecturers. The Treasury funds 85% of the
SLIDA budget while the rest is earned from course fees charged to the private sector, management
consultancies and customized training. It identifies the course curriculum in keeping with official policy
requirements, regular needs assessments and the feedback of past trainees.
Internet-based distance learning will increase SLIDA's live access to relevant international experience,
latest policy trends and specialized knowledge. It will facilitate increased policy debate within the civil
service on current development issues. Distance learning will offer an increased range of courses that will
keep pace with developments in the international arena and more positively impact on administrative
capacity within Sri Lanka.
The Sri Lanka Institute of Local Governance (SLILG), was incorporated by an Act of Parliament in
September 1999. The Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution (1987) devolved several administrative
responsibilities to the eight provinces. The provincial bureaucracy, however, lacked the financial
management and strategic planning skills to take on the responsibilities assigned to it. To date, no province
has been able to develop a corporate plan or enact relevant legislation. Rural divisional secretaries lack
internet connectivity and exposure to global knowledge. The 'Commission of Inquiry on Local Government
Refonns' in 1999 emphasized the need to build capacity at the local level.
SLILG endeavors to rectify the widespread lack of capacity and supports eight provincial-level
"Management Development Training Units" (MDTU) to train provincial civil servants. SLILG, with a
training budget of Rs 16 million, now has 100 external resource persons. It develops course curricula for
the MDTUs, trains provincial-level trainers, holds workshops for senior provincial bureaucrats and
undertakes consultancy assignments for provincial line agencies. As a new institution, SLILG still lacks the
expertise to effectively train grass roots government officers in management. Most MDTUs are not fully
functional either.
The overall training required at present in the devolved authorities is of a rudimentary nature.
Internet-based distance leaming will not be the best instrument to address such needs. The English language
course modules and the required level of expertise prevent middle-level provincial cadre from effectively
using the Distance Learning Center (DLC). The limited size of the provincial and local government budgets
also pre-empts the extensive use of DLC facilities.
Senior grades in the provincial and local levels, however, can avail themselves of distance learning modules
in financial management, policy analysis and broad development issues. The Government intends to
- 5 -



approach other donors to support the initial training of provincial chief secretaries, deputy chief secretaries,
secretaries to provincial ministries and divisional secretaries on a pilot basis. Distance learning will vastly
enhance training opportunities and link grass-roots decision-makers to the borderless world of knowledge.
The Sri Lanka Institute of Directors (SLID), established by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce under the
Company's Act in April 2000, was envisioned to provide training and development support for corporate
executives. It emerged in response to a broad demand for education in corporate governance, currently
unavailable in Sri Lanka. SLID, soon to be converted into an independent body, is in the process of
developing a training program for business managers. It acts as an information resource and discussion
forum for private directors.
SLID has a membership of 735 Directors, Senior Managers and Corporate Partners. It organizes breakfast
meetings on e-commerce and corporate govemance, and external diploma programs for directors at the
Chartered Institute of Directors in London, the University of Ulster and the Wharton School of Business in
Singapore. In a survey of its membership carried out in August, 2000, most directors identified web-based
learning experiences and distance learning programs in corporate govemance, e-business and the legal
ramifications of directorship as a priority.
The Distance Learning Project is intended in part to strengthen the SLID program by linking it to
international best practice. The real-time transfer of specialized knowledge will enable trained directors to
effectively exercise their responsibilities of oversight and fiduciary control over management
The Center For Banking Studies, affiliated to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, offers course modules in
commercial and investment banking, fund management, risk management and financial sector development.
The courses offered vary in duration from one year diploma programs to half-day workshops on specific
topics. Despite a partnership with international training institutes, the Central Bank still needs to either
send staff abroad for more specialized training or bring international experts. Both options are expensive
and largely dependent on the availability of donor funds. Expenditure related to airfare and per-diems are
significant, notwithstanding donor-financed course fee exemptions. Distance Learning is intended to reduce
the costs of training, widen the technical exposure and complement the Center's existing program by
promoting a transfer of knowledge through satellite-based technology. It will beef up the curriculum
through increased international inputs and help strengthen the domestic environment for financial sector
reform.
The Skills Development Fund (SDF) was established in early 2000 in keeping with the recommendations
of the 'Presidential Task Force on Tertiary Education and Vocational Training' to introduce a training
culture in the public and private sectors. It provides (i) job entry training for new recruits; (ii) on-the-job
training for managers; and (iii) retraining to facilitate retrenchment and flexible labor markets. The
Government owns 90% of its shares and intends to divest this through a private offering in November 2001
and a public offering one year thereafter.
The SDF, a Board of Investment registered company, provides a needs analysis for individual firms and
then designs a customized training program using external resource persons registered with it. It is
envisaged that the SDF will incorporate distance leaming modules in its training programs. The DLC
Company, likewise, will rely on the SDF to undertake regular needs assessments on its behalf.
Several other private sector firms have also invested in training. For example, corporate conglomerates
such as Maharajahs and Ceylinco Consolidated have set up their own training institutes i.e. the Maharajah
Institute of Management and the Ceylinco-owned International College of Business and Technology.
- 6 -



These are fully owned subsidiaries of the parent company and are intended in part to upgrade the skills of
employees, provide a foreign MBA education within Sri Lanka, and help introduce international best
practice and knowledge to corporate staff. It is envisaged that distance learning modules will be included in
their training programs and DLC facilities used for the purpose.
Ceylinco Consolidated is a multi-million dollar Sri Lankan conglomerate established in 1939. Its training
institutes include the International College of Business Technology, Ceylinco Insurance College, the
Ceylinco Institute of Excellence, the Colombo Business School and the Seylan Bank Training Center. It has
identified international training partners such as the University of Western Sydney, the South Australian
Tertiary and Further Education Program, the National University of Singapore and the Abdul Razzak
University in Malaysia to educate local cadre in the latest business and management practices. Ceylinco
itself has a vision of tele-education and is eager to partner with the DLC Company.
The public and private initiatives referred to above were intended to strengthen capacity through improved
training. The proposed distance leaming project, a public-private partnership, will increase the scope of
such programs and ensure international standards. The latest internet-based courses, with a focus on global
knowledge, governance and policy reform will support current efforts to enhance capacity in Sri Lanka.
DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER: The Government incorporated the DLC Company in June, 2000
and registered it under the Company's Act in September, 2000. The Ministry of Finance owns 100% of the
DLC Company's shares. It plans to divest 49% of the Company's shareholding once the market base is
developed and the DLC is financially viable. This is anticipated in the fourth year of DLC's operations.
SLID and other private sector firms have already expressed interest to buy shares of the DLC Company to
ensure that it meets their training needs. The Ministry of Finance will define the strategy and timeline for
divestment. An accounting firm will be hired to price the shares and oversee the sale thereof.
The DLC Company will relay relevant courses developed by international distance leaming institutes while
trained local experts will facilitate the delivery of such courses. The Company will benefit from the
products offered by the Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN) of the WBI, the Monterey Institute of
Technology in Mexico, City University of Hong Kong, Open University of Hong Kong, the Singapore
campus of the University of Chicago, Waseda University in Japan, Monash University, the University of
Adelaide in Australia, the WTO and ILO.
The DLC Company will identify training courses available abroad with the active participation of potential
clients. It hired a market research firm which surveyed government departments, the private sector and
financial institutions in October, November and December, 2000. The market survey assessed client
interest and ability to pay for courses offered. The survey reveals that a significant demand exists in Sri
Lanka for internationally-relayed distance learning courses. The survey findings, included in the project
files, will be used to develop a course curriculum, price courses and prepare the DLC Business Plan,
expected to be finalized in March, 2001. The Business Plan, in turn, will define the long term strategy of
the Company, delineate a plan to ensure cost recovery and include financial projections.
It is envisioned that user fees charged by the DLC Company will cover operating costs by the end of the
fourth year of operations. Its pricing policy will be designed to attract more clients for DLC services, allow
for gradual cost recovery and ensure a sustainable market share. A solid precedent exists for the fee-based
delivery of training workshops and courses in Sri Lanka. The private sector has demonstrated its
willingness to pay as seen in the newer management institutes that have arisen in Colombo. Organizations
such as the Maharajah Institute of Management, Ceylinco's International College of Business Technology
- 7 -



and the SDF, for instance, provide customized training programs at commercial rates. The DLC Company
will charge Governnent officials for the courses offered at initially subsidized rates. This will ensure that
only those capable and eager to be trained will be nominated by their supervisor to attend courses.
It is anticipated that DLC facilities will be reserved in part for the use of high revenue earning programs
targeted at the clientele of SLID, the SDF and other private sector companies. This will ensure steady
returns and financial viability in a few years.
The market strategy will facilitate publicity, create demand for programs and enhance the attractiveness of
the hitherto untested distance learning method. A consultancy firm will be hired in March, 2001 to develop
the strategy and promote the DLC. High profile workshops targeted at senior bureaucrats and corporate
executives will be relayed to help consolidate initial market demand.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The Project is designed as a LIL to (a) test the impact of training on policy reforn in Sri Lanka; (b)
evaluate the sustainability of distance learning as a tool to enhance institutional capacity; (c) assess the
country's ability to use information technology to bridge the knowledge gap; (d) pilot links between the
public and private sectors in the training and retraining of professionals; and (e) test the market for a larger
program of civil service reform
The LIL will tie in with the Bank's recent emphasis on mediating the transfer of knowledge rather than
money. The WBI has had considerable experience in the production, delivery and evaluation of distance
learning course materials. The intent is to develop a dynamic knowledge management system in Sri Lanka
capable of distilling international experience and making it available for further adaptation and use in a
local setting. The Project will help build the capability in Sri Lanka to adapt relevant policy and technical
knowledge to the domestic context, and when possible to create new knowledge, which in turn might be
useful for other countries. Sri Lanka will be better positioned to exploit the new information and
communications technologies to increase its own knowledge base.
The Project will support internal policy dialogue with provincial decision-makers, hitherto excluded from
sector deliberations in Sri Lanka. It will link the provincial decision-maker to the informnation super
highway and enable increased regional input in national planning. By convening officers of different
departments in one forum, it will also facilitate internal debate on the reform agenda.
Likewise, the Project will convene the public and private sector in high-profile deliberations on issues of
national interest. This interface will create opportunities for improved governance. The DLC will link
corporate executives in Asia to facilitate an exchange of views.
There are several success stories of the delivery of courses over satellite and via the internet. The World
Bank supported the African Virtual University in 1997, the first-ever technology-based educational
network serving sub-Saharan Africa. The cyber-space university has been piloted in 16 English speaking
and eight French speaking tertiary education centers and offers specialized certification programs with
content from major universities, private corporations and organizations in North America, Europe and
Africa. It will soon offer degree programs as well.
Likewise, the Virtual University of the Monterey Institute of Technology in Mexico delivers courses
through printed texts and live and prerecorded television broadcasts, with communications between
students and faculty aided by the internet. It enrolls 9,000 degree and 35,000 non-degree students each year
- 8 -



in Latin America. The City University of Hong Kong launched its interactive 'i-MBA' program in 2000.
Offered in partnership with Hong Kong's dominant phone company, the program delivers internet-based
lectures and tutorials through a broadband network. The bandwith allows real-time visual imaging while
pre-recorded course materials are broadcast on cable television. The Distance Learning Project in Sri
Lanka attempts to replicate the benefits of such programs with a more specific focus on policy reform and
governance.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
Z Economic   151 Technical    X Social          L Participation
IX Financial    X Institutional  [l Environmental D Other
Economic: It is the expectation of the project that increased access to global knowledge will facilitate better
policies, improved governance and higher rates of economic growth.
The project is also expected to demonstrate an economically viable method of delivering relevant training to
reduce the current and expensive practice of sending officers abroad for specialized training or the import
of international trainers. The project will enable more decision-makers to have access to high-quality
training in a wider variety of fields in Sri Lanka itself Moreover, increased training will be provided at
lower cost leading to an effective use of funds.
Financial: Financial viability hinges on market development, relevance of courses to the local context, the
willingness to pay, and cost recovery. The project will finance a decreasing share of DLC operating costs
over project duration to permit gradual market development and increased user fees.
However, there is a risk that the DLC Company might not break even due to the costs of relaying courses
using satellite technology. The lack of familiarity with the advanced multi-media technology, and the
increasing availability of cheaper and more conventional international training programs in Sri Lanka will
pose financial risks. IDA and the Government will agree upon a risk mitigation plan by July 31, 2001.
Technical: The project will introduce advanced communications technology in the training of senior public
and private sector officers. This will increase the use of the internet in the public sector and introduce
administrators to a range of information technology options. The consequent use of information technology
for policy planning and training purposes, will revolutionize decision-making at the provincial level.
Institutional: The DLC Company will be an independent entity run on a commercial basis. The Company,
a public-private partnership, is well positioned to introduce private sector work norms and best practice in
the civil service training program. It will likewise orient the corporate sector to issues of development and
civic responsibility. The DLC Company situated at the public-private interface, occupies the niche to serve
both sectors effectively.
Social: It is an expectation that the internet-based training programs for provincial and local-level
bureaucrats will increase administrative effectiveness at the grass-roots and better meet the development
needs of the rural poor through increased access to global knowledge. The provincial administrator,
hitherto excluded from high-level policy deliberations, will have an increased opportunity to interact with
central civil servants in joint training programs. This would have a significant impact in conflict-affected
areas where Government cadre have been effectively cut off from access to the latest global trends and
information.
-9-



Some donors have also expressed interest to support the use of the DLC facilities to relay courses on social
cohesion, gender equity and human rights for decision-makers.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project will have one component i.e. support for the establishment and operation of the DLC
Company. It will help the DLC Company to initiate operations and achieve financial viability. The single
component includes several activities i.e. the (a) selection and relay of distance learning course material; (b)
financing of DLC operating costs on a decreasing basis over the first four years of operation; (c) technical
assistance for staff training, a market survey, development of a business plan, a market campaign, and
periodic evaluation of center operation/management effectiveness; (d) establishment of financial
accounts/annual audits; (e) civil works; and (f) purchase, installation and initial maintenance of distance
learning technology.
The civil works entails the construction of a fourth floor in SLIDA to house the proposed DLC with a
videoconference room to accommodate 35 persons, two computer rooms outfitted for 20 computer stations
each, and an administrative office.
The procurement of equipment for the DLC, includes the purchase and installation of VSAT, video,
telecommnunications and microprocessor equipment, furniture and other equipment for DLC operation and
security. IDA will procure equipment on behalf of the client to ensure technical compatibility with the
GDLN and economies of scale.
The total cost is estimated at US $ 3.1 Million of which IDA will finance US $ 2 Million. IDA will cover
the DLC's initial deficit in operational revenue, equipment costs and 85% of the costs of civil works.
The DLC in Colombo will be part of a sustainable network of interactive classrooms in some fifty centers
around the world with full voice, video and data connectivity to the different centers. It will be designed as
a node in the GDLN. The GDLN strategy is to deliver training to clients close to their place of work; in
stages, rather than in one block of time; to groups from one team in a department, rather than to only one or
two representatives; as a group activity rather than as a lonely home study; to multiple groups in several
countries simultaneously; as an activity related to problem solving in their workplace; and with direct
applicability to their jobs. To achieve this, a combination of four main technologies, Videoconferencing,
Internet, Cd-rom and Print, will be used in an integrated manner.
The core of the DLC will be two technology-based class rooms reflecting the specific requirements of the
distance learning method. One room will be used for "live" (or synchronous) video interaction between local
course participants, remote instructors and international participants, while the second room will be used
for independent, time-flexible (asynchronous), internet-based study. Connectivity will be achieved through
a "Very Small Aperture Terminal" (VSAT) satellite antenna similar to that provided at World Bank Field
Offices.
- 10-



Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
Investment Cost                     Institutional                   0.0                  0.0
Development
Civil Works (Buildings, lifts, AC)                      0.45       14.3      0.39       19.4
Equipment (DLC, LAN, Telecom,                           0.83       26.4      0.69       34.3
Furniture etc.)
Consultancy (Market Survey, Business                    0.29        9.2      0.26       12.9
Plan etc.) and Training
PPF Finances                       Institutional        0.12        3.8      0.10        5.0
Development
Operating Costs                    Distance                         0.0                  0.0
Education/Educat
ion Technology
Satellite Bandwidth and servicing                       0.71       22.6      0.30       14.9
Personnel                                               0.15        4.8      0.07        3.5
Maintenance                                             0.44       14.0      0.15        7.5
Other costs (utilities, telephone,                      0.15        4.8      0.05        2.5
variable costs)
Total Project Costs                    3.14     100.0       2.01     100.0
Total Financing Required                     3.14      100.0      2.01      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing Agency:
The DLC Company located in the SLIDA premises, will implement the project. It was incorporated in
June, 2000 and registered under the Company's Act in September, 2000 with an authorized share capital of
Rs 250 Million. A Board of Directors governs the DLC Company. Its members include nominees of the
Ministry of Finance, SLIDA, Center for Banking Studies, SLID, the SDF and the Ceylon Chamber of
Commerce.
The Board of Directors will define corporate policy, oversee management, approve the annual business
plan, assess the DLC's financial statements and ensure that the DLC Company is financially
self-sustaining over time. The Board will ensure the participation of the public and private sector in
curriculum development.
Daily management of the Center is entrusted to a Chief Executive Officer (CEO). A team consisting of an
IT expert, a facilitator/trainer, an experienced accountant and an administrative secretary will be recruited
over the next four months to support the CEO. An accountant from SLIDA has been seconded to the DLC
Company to work in the interim on a part time basis.
- 11 -



Project Preparation
This includes incorporation of the DLC Company (legal procedures, nomination of Board members,
appointment of the CEO), the selection of course curricula, and designing the proposed site
(video-conference room, computer room etc. SLIDA handled initial project preparation and will continue to
oversee construction activity. The CEO co-ordinated project preparation activities since July, 2000.
The cost of project preparation is being financed largely through an IDA PPF of US $ 100,000 approved in
April, 2000. The DLC Company is satisfactorily maintaining the PPF accounts.
The DLC Company hired a market research firm in September, 2000 to survey potential clients, elicit
learning priorities and recommend a feasible fee structure. The Market Survey was completed in December,
2000 and its findings are included in the project files. The Company will develop the course curriculum in
early 2001 by incorporating client preferences captured by the survey.
It will submit an initial Business Plan for IDA review and approval in March, 2001. The plan will outline
the corporate vision, developmental strategy, courses to be offered, stakeholders to be targeted and
financial projections.
The Department of Buildings, funded out of PPF funds, completed the relevant architectural drawings,
finalized technical specifications, Bills of Quantity and bid documents in July, 2000. The DLC Company
invited bids in August and awarded the contract in November, 2000. IDA procurement guidelines were
followed. It is anticipated that the civil works will be completed by April 30, 2001. The Bank's ISG will
provide assistance and expertise to procure, install and test videoconferencing equipment in May 2001. The
DLC is expected to start operations in June, 2001.
Project Implementation
The DLC Company will continuously assess demand for training, identify and program appropriate
training courses available overseas, and market the center. It will partner with different training institutes to
further its outreach.
The DLC Company will target its program at senior decision-makers at the central and provincial public
service, the private sector and the financial sector. It will partner with SLIDA to train civil servants; with
SLILG to reach out to senior provincial administrators; with SLID, SDF and other private training
institutes to educate private sector executives; and with the Center for Banking Studies to train bankers.
The DLC Company will also liaise with relevant Ministries to disseminate technical information pertinent
to increased private investment in infrastructure/utilities.
The Company will develop and submit Annual Business Plans to IDA by December 1 of each year. The
financial component of the Business Plan will detail the financing of operational expenses, and specify
credit fund proceeds and capital mobilized by the DLC Company.
Financial Management and Reporting
The project will begin with traditional financial management and disbursement arrangements through a
Special Account in the Central Bank and SOEs. The DLC Company will produce Project Management
Reports (PMR) comparing actual expenditure against budget, annual financial statements and disbursement
applications. The DLC Company will maintain a consolidated account of all expenditure under the project.
- 12 -



The DLC Company will recruit an accountant to handle overall financial management and book keeping,
while audit functions will be contracted out to an experienced firm appointed by the Auditor-General.
Procurement
The DLC Company reviewed designs and bid documents prepared by its consultants, and finalized
contracts for civil works assignments. Goods financed by IDA credit will be procured in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and
revised in January and August, 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services financed by
the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1987 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999.
On behalf of the borrower, IDA will procure network access equipment for the videoconference room, and
computers and computer-related communications equipment on a sole source basis to ensure compatibility
with the GDLN. The satellite bandwidth rental contract will be procured on a direct contract basis (one
supplier selected under the Bank umbrella). IDA undertook this responsibility for other GDLN
participating centers as well.
IDA is better positioned to take advantage of product development, technological expertise and bulk
procurement offered by GDLN to facilitate rapid project start-up and provide needed support throughout
implementation. This arrangement will ensure quality control, timely installation, uniform standards in all
GDLN participating centers and economies of scale. The Government of Sri Lanka and IDA will enter into
a formal procurement agreement to this effect.
The DLC Company will procure residual equipment using national and international shopping. It will select
a local vendor to maintain the network equipment and identify a contractor to supply selected IT equipment
available in Sri Lanka by April, 2001.
IDA cleared the DLC Company's Procurement Plan for the first year of operations. The Company will
prepare an annual Procurement Plan for each year thereafter.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The DLC Company will report progress on project implementation. It will submit annual project reviews
and quarterly project progress reports to its Board and IDA. The quarterly progress reports will be
submitted one month after the end of each quarter and will provide complete information on DLC
operations, the courses offered, audiences targeted, the implementation of the business plan, and problems
faced.
Sector reviews and surveys of trainees will be used to provide an independent assessment of project
effectiveness. At the end of each course, trainees will evaluate the course and the feedback obtained will be
entered into the MIS. These will be used to measure performance indicators and get a sense of improvement
over time. The MIS will include an accounting system that measures the cost and revenue of the
organization.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
- 13-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The cost of delivering training through internet and satellite-based distance learning will be less than the
current arrangement of sending Sri Lankan decision-makers abroad for similar specialized training or
bringing in international trainers on a regular basis.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
The project will finance initial operations costs, recurrent expenditure, and the procurement, installation
and maintenance of equipment. The DLC Company is expected to attain financial sustainability at the end
of the fourth year of operations by generating sufficient revenue through user fees to cover operating costs.
An adequate pricing policy will be designed to allow for market development and gradual cost recovery.
There is a substantial risk, however, that the DLC Company might not break-even during the duration of
the project owing to the costs of distance learning, the availability of cheaper and more conventional
training options in Sri Lanka, the lack of familiarity with the technology used and the unwillingness to pay
for the courses offered. This could threaten the long-term financial viability of the DLC Company. A risk
mitigation plan will be agreed upon with Government during project negotiations.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The DLC Company will recruit an experienced IT expert to handle the set up and use of equipment. As the
technology involved is quite advanced, the project will provide the full time IT expert with intensive
on-the-job training in operation and maintenance. The "Information Services Group" (ISG) of the World
Bank will order, install and test much of the equipment. World Bank IT staff at the Colombo office will be
available to provide occasional guidance.
A stand-by generator is in place to protect against power failures. The technology will be chosen to ensure
compatibility with the GDLN and benefit from the expertise gained through the development of this
network. Future upgrading and replacement of equipment will seek compatibility with domestic and Bank
communication systems to the extent possible.
Funds will be set aside under the project for the initial maintenance of equipment. Equipment maintenance
will be contracted out through competitive bidding to qualified firms in Colombo or representatives of the
equipment suppliers.
4. Institutional:
The DLC Company was incorporated in June, 2000 and registered in September, 2000. It is a
public-private partnership intended to increase access to global knowledge, facilitate policy reform and
support good governance. Its staff will be recruited in stages. The Government will divest up to 49% of its
shareholding during the project duration.
- 14 -



4.1 Executing agencies:
The DLC Company will implement the project. The Company will partner with SLIDA, SLILG, the Center
for Banking Studies, SLID, SDF, the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and private sector training institutes.
4.2 Project management:
The Board of Directors will provide strategic direction and oversee project implementation. The Board will
designate a Working Committee of two to three members by March 1, 2001 to help run DLC Company
Operations. The members of the working committee will be selected from partner organizations of the DLC
Company represented on the Board i.e. SLIDA, SLID and the Chamber of Commerce. The Working
Committee, the CEO and his staff will be responsible for project management.
4.3 Procurement issues:
On behalf of the borrower, IDA will procure network access equipment for the videoconference room, and
computers and computer-related communications equipment on a sole source basis to ensure compatibility
with the GDLN. The satellite bandwidth rental contract will be procured on a direct contract basis (one
supplier selected under the Bank umbrella). The Govermment of Sri Lanka and IDA will enter into a formal
procurement agreement to this effect.
IDA is better positioned to take advantage of product development, technological expertise and bulk
procurement offered by GDLN to facilitate rapid project start-up and provide needed support throughout
implementation. This arrangement will ensure quality control, timely installation, uniform standards in all
GDLN participating centers and economies of scale.
The DLC Company will procure residual equipment using national and international shopping. It will select
a local vendor to maintain the network equipment and identify a contractor to supply selected IT equipment
available in Sri Lanka.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The DLC Company will have a satisfactory financial management system, as per OP/BP 10.02
requirements, for managing project finances by Credit Effectiveness date. Currently, due to the limited
number of financial transactions, the accountant from SLIDA is assisting the DLC Company, on a
part-time basis, to process and record project payments. However, by April 1, 2001, an appropriately
qualified full time accountant is expected to be recruited to the DLC Company and will be responsible for
financial management of the project.
The DLC Company will produce the full set of PMRs from the inception of the project. The requirements
for the reports will follow the simplified formats. The reports will not be used as the basis for
disbursements, unless and until it is mutually agreed by the DLC Company and IDA. Refer to the Project
Files for the PMR formats. For justifications for continuing with the traditional disbursement method,
please refer Annex 6.
The DLC has been incorporated and registered as a limited liability company. As such, DLC will comply
with the requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, which are similar to the International
Accounting Standards in all material aspects, and will be audited by an audit firm to be appointed by the
Auditor General of Sri Lanka. As the DLC Company has been established under the initial patronage of
SLIDA, the internal control framework of SLIDA will be adopted for the project in so far as it is relevant
to the operations of DLC.
- 15-



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed back-up diesel power generating unit will comply with the Government of Sri Lanka's
standards for emissions and noise. The Central Environmental Authority will issue an Environmental
Protection License for the generator and will routinely monitor the DLC Company's compliance with
license conditions. IDA will review compliance during supervision missions.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
It is an expectation that the internet-based training programs for provincial and local-level bureaucrats will
increase administrative effectiveness at the grass-roots and better meet the development needs of the rural
poor through increased access to global knowledge. The provincial administrator, hitherto excluded from
high-level policy deliberations, will have an increased opportunity to interact with central civil servants in
joint training programs. This would have a significant impact in conflict-affected areas where Government
cadre have been effectively cut off from access to the latest global infonnation.
Some donors have expressed interest to support the use of DLC facilities to relay courses for
decision-makers on social cohesion, gender equity and human rights.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The DLC Company surveyed senior public officials, provincial decision-makers and private sector
executives in October, November and December, 2000 to ascertain client preference for course content.
The market survey will be used to ensure a demand-driven course curriculum. Courses will be designed
with the active participation of beneficiaries who will benefit from access to a wider selection and higher
quality of cost-effective training than is currently available.
The Ministry of Finance, SLIDA, the Center For Banking Studies, SLID, SDF and the Ceylon Chamber of
Commerce will be represented in the Board of Directors of the DLC Company. Stakeholders represented on
the Board will steer the development of the new center, oversee its business plan and ensure that training
activities and curricula are consistent with national priorities.
- 16-



Other stakeholders include institutions that provide training to similar target groups such as the Open
University, National Institute of Business Management, the Postgraduate Institute of Management,
Ceylinco Consolidated and the Maharajah Institute of Management. Institutions such as these will be
consulted in order to coordinate actions and schedules, and avoid a duplication of effort.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The DLC Company will consult legislators, academics and the media to plan distance learning workshops
and high-level policy dialogue in the region, as and when the need arises.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Sector Reviews and Survey of Trainees
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes    No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
- 17 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measurel
From Outputs to Objective
The significant cost of the progran         M         The Govermnent will consider setting aside
prevents the public and the private sector            resources in its training budget for the program.
from fully participating therein                      Other donor support will also be elicited to help
meet the costs of training. The private sector
presence in the DLC Board will ensure that the
courses offered meet their requirements and fall
in line with their budgetary considerations. In
addition, IDA funds will cover a declining
percentage of initial operating costs.
Distance learning courses offered are not   M         A market survey helped identify training areas
relevant to the country's development                relevant to client needs and will be used to
needs and market demand                               ensure a demand-driven course curriculum.
DLC revenue forecasts are not met           S         The DLC Company Management will prepare
resulting in cash deficiencies restricting            timely annual operating budgets and present
operations.                                          these to the Board of Directors. Management
will also submit quarterly annual financial
statements of revenue and expenditure to the
Board showing actuals against budget. At
negotiations it will be agreed that GoSL, and
eventually the private sector partners in the
DLC will enter into formal undertakings to meet
any DLC Company cash operating shortfalls in
proportion to their respective shareholdings.
Annual financial statements will be prepared
within one month of the end of financial year
and will be duly audited by private sector
auditors. Audited financial statements will be
presented annually to the Board within 3 months
of the close of each financial year.
From Components to Outputs
The public is not familiar with the         M         The project will market the strengths of the
multi-media and intemet technology, and               distance learning method, support training for
would prefer more conventional training              technical staff and contract out maintenance to a
programs. The technology used may not                 well established vendor. ISG will provide
be stable given initial maintenance and               back-up support and oversight.
teething problems.
-18 -



DLC management lacks a pro-active and        M         The private sector presence in the Board of
aggressive business orientation                        Directors will ensure a strong commercial
orientation. The Government's decision to
subsequently divest 49% of the DLC's shares
will increase private sector participation in DLC
operations. Employees, with a private sector
background, will also be recruited on a
competitive basis.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
X 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 19-



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Naresha DuraiswamyO'             Marilou Jane D.,                  Marl M  Todorova
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manager
-20 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
. 3   w;'w jj'. ., ' 7v   * .
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance the institutional and  Number of reforms introduced Sector Review       There is a policy commitment
policy framework for private                                                    within Govemment to address
sector-led growth                                                               the reform agenda
Increased private investment  Country Reports
in key sectors of the economy
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Mainstream the use of      Number of public and private DLC Annual Report       Access to knowledge and
distance leaming as an     professionals trained                                information is transformed
ongoing tool to increase                                                        into better policies
access of public and private
sector professionals to global
knowledge.
Civil service reform
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Strengthen the environment  Number of specific initiatives Sector Review        Exposure to the latest
for policy reform         introduced that impacts on                            technical information and
sector reform in designated                          cross country experience will
areas covered by distance                            help build a policy consensus
leaming.                                             on the need for reform
Build capacity in the public   Number of directors, trained  Annual Survey of Trainees    Access to knowledge is
and private sectors       in the distance leaming                               transformed into improved
program, implementing best                           performance by private sector
practice guidelines on                               executives
corporate govemance.
Ability to cover operating  Data generated from the  The public and private sector
expenses through fees (100%   Project Management     are able and willing to invest
of operating expenses to be   Information System     in the distance leaming
covered by revenue generation                        method
by the 4th year of project
implementation).
- 21 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Distance learning facilities    Numnber and variety of  DLC Annual Report      The relevance of DLC
extensively used to train  organizations using DLC                             training to country needs and
decision makers and private                                                    market demand
sector managers
Number of public and private
professionals trained
Viable cost recovery plan in   DLC self financing at the end Annual audit report of the    Trainee organizations'
place and operational     of its fourth year of operations Center              willingness and ability to pay.
DLC Company revenue
forecasts are met.
Project Components i      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Support to Establishment  US$ 1.40 Million          DLC Annual Audit report    DLC Management has a
DLC (Civil Work and Major  IDA Finance: US$ 1.18                               strong business and
Equipment)                Million                                              commercial orientation.
Periodic Progress Reports and
Financial Management
Reports.
Institutional Support for  US $ 1.74 Million         Quarterly Disbursement    Technology works reliably
Operations                IDA Finance: US$ 0.82     Reports                    and is accepted by trainees.
Million
Total Cost                US$ 3.14 Million
IDA Finance: US$ 2.0
Million
- 22 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.14 million
The Project will have one component i.e. support for the establishment and operation of the DLC
Company. It will help the DLC Company to initiate operations and achieve financial viability. The single
component includes several activities i.e. the (a) selection and relay of distance learning course material; (b)
financing of DLC operating costs on a decreasing basis over the first 4 years of operation; (c) technical
assistance for staff training, a market survey, development of a business plan, a market campaign, and
periodic evaluation of center operation/management effectiveness; (d) establishment of financial
accounts/annual audits; (e) civil works; and (f) purchase, installation and initial maintenance of distance
leaming technology. IDA will finance US$ 2.0 Million of the total project cost.
The civil works entails the construction of a fourth floor in SLIDA to house the proposed DLC with a
videoconference room to accommodate 35 persons, two computer rooms outfitted for 20 computer stations
each, and an administrative office.
The procurement of equipment for the DLC, includes the purchase and installation of VSAT, video,
telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, fumiture and other equipment for DLC operation and
security. IDA will procure equipment on behalf of the client to ensure technical compatibility with the
GDLN and economies of scale.
Implementing Agency: The DLC Company, an independent organization located in the SLIDA premises,
will implement the project. It was incorporated in June and registered under the Company's Act in
September, 2000 with an authorized share capital of Rs 250 Million. A Board of Directors, with
representatives of the Public and Private Sectors, govems the DLC Company. These include the Ministry
of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance, SLID, Ceylinco Consolidated and SDF.
Project Oversight and Coordination: The Board of Directors will define corporate policy, oversee
management, approve the annual business plan, assess the DLC's financial statements and ensure that the
DLC is financially self-sustaining over time. The Board will ensure the participation of the public and
private sector in curriculum development. It will supervise the implementation of the project.
Project Implementation: Daily management of the Center is entrusted to a Chief Executive Officer
(CEO). A team consisting of an IT expert, a facilitator/trainer, an experienced accountant and an office
assistant will be recruited over the next four months to support the CEO. An accountant from SLIDA has
been seconded to the DLC to work in the interim on a part time basis.
Project Financing: The total cost is estimated at US $3 Million of which IDA will finance US $2 Million.
The IDA credit will finance DLC civil works, equipment, consultant services and training related to DLC
start-up. Over the project implementation period, the IDA credit will also finance, on a decreasing basis,
DLC operating expenditures, including staff training and required studies and audits. As the market for its
services develops, the DLC Company is to mobilize an increasing share of financing for its operating
expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within four years. Thereafter the DLC Company should operate and
renew its equipment through self-generated revenues.
- 23 -



To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established by the DLC Company in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The DLC Company will operate this special
account.
Financial Management and Reporting: The DLC Company will have a satisfactory financial
management system, as per OP/BP 10.02 requirements, for managing project finances by Credit
Effectiveness date. Currently, due to the limited number of financial transactions, the accountant from
SLIDA is assisting the DLC Company, on a part-time basis, to process and record project payments.
However, by April 1, 2001, an appropriately qualified full time accountant will be recruited to the DLC
Company and will be responsible for financial management of the project.
The DLC Company will produce the full set of PMRs from the inception of the project. The requirements
for the reports will follow the simplified formats. The reports will not be used as the basis for
disbursements, unless and until it is mutually agreed by the DLC Company and IDA. Refer to the Project
Files for the PMR formats. For justifications for continuing with the traditional disbursement method,
please refer Annex 6.
The DLC has been incorporated and registered as a limited liability company. As such, DLC will comply
with the requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, which are similar to the Intemational
Accounting Standards in all material aspects, and will be audited by an audit firm to be appointed by the
Auditor General of Sri Lanka. As the DLC Company has been established under the initial patronage of
SLIDA, the internal control framework of SLIDA will be adopted for the project in so far as it is relevant
to the operations of DLC.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements: The DLC Company will report progress on project
implementation. It will submit annual project reviews and quarterly project progress reports to its Board
and IDA. The quarterly progress reports will be submitted one month after the end of each quarter and will
provide complete information on DLC operations, the implementation of the business plan, and problems
faced.
Sector reviews and surveys of trainees will be used to provide an independent assessment of project
effectiveness. At the end of each course, trainees will evaluate the course and the feedback obtained will be
entered into the MIS. These will be used to measure performance indicators and get a sense of improvement
over time. The MIS will include an accounting system that measures the cost and revenue of the
organization.
Procurement: The only civil works financed under the project entails the construction of a fourth floor in
SLIDA estimated at $ 340,000, to house the proposed DLC. The fourth floor will have a video conference
room, two computer rooms, and an administrative office . SLIDA invited bids in August and awarded the
contract in November, 2000. IDA procurement guidlines were followed.
The procurement of goods consists of: (i) Global Connectivity Equipment for DLC ($250,000); (ii) Local
Area Network for DLC ($ 38,000); (iii) Pedagogical Equipment for DLC ($ 312,000); (iv) IT accessories
($ 137,000); (v) office equipment $(6,000); (vi) air-conditioning/generator plant for DLC ($ 112,000); and
(vii) furniture ($ 38,000).
Consultants will be required to: (i) conduct a market survey ($12,500); (ii) prepare a business plan
($12,500): (iii) prepare a market strategy ($12,500); and (iv) provide other technical assistance ($49,000).
- 24 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
Expenditure Accounts Breakdown and Project Cost
(USs '000)
Base Cost                Physical   Price   Total nci. IDA Finances 21
Conting- Conting- Conting-
encies   encies    encies
Local
Project Components            Foreign   Financing
Exchange   (Excl.   Duties Total inc.                                        () of
Financing   Taxes)   &Taxes   Taxes                                Amount  Total
1. Investment Costs                                                                     =
Project Preparation Facility 11
PPF- Finances Goods                                  43.96     5.5sa    49.46    4.95      0 30     54.70    46.49    85.0
PPF- Finances Consultants Services                   51.0(   6.31   57.38        2.870i _3          60.5     53.25    87.
Subtotal Project Preparation Facility                94.96    11.87   106.83     7.81      0.62    115.27    99.75    86.5
Civil Works                                         359.10    44.89   403.99    40.40      8.99    453.38   385.37   85.01
Goods
DLC Equipment 31
DLC Global Connectivity Equipment         187.00              37.4C   224.40    22.4       3.70    250.5    208.79    83
DLC Pedagogical tools                     232.43              46.49   278.92   . 27.89     4.60    31 1.4    259.5    83.3
DLC Local Area Network (LAN)               27.90               5.58    33.48     3.35      0.55     37.38    31.15   83.3
DLC Logistics                              72.50              14.5- 80           8.70      1.44     97.1     80.9    83.
DLC Local Equipment 4/                     98.50              24.63   123.13    12.31      2.03    137.4    109.98    80.1l
Subtotal DLC Equipment                    618.33         .  128.60   746.93    74.69      12.32    833.93   690.37    82.7
Consultant Services and Training                                                                        I
Local Consultants                                    20.00     2.50    22.50     1.13      1.80     25.42    22.60    88.9
Intemabonal Consultants                   140.8C     35.20    22.00   198.0      9.9      13.4    221.31    196.72   88.
Foreign Training                           35.00         -             35.00     1.75      1.9?     38.67    38.67   100.0
Subtotal Consultant Services and
Training                                  175.80     55.2D   24.50   255.50    12.78      17.13    285.41   257.99    90.4
Total Investment Costs                    794.13    509.26   209.88  1.513.24   135.68    39.06  1.687.99  1.433.48    85.0
fl. Recurrent Costs                                 =
Operatin Cost
Satellite Bandwidth and Servicing Cost  __          556._O    69.5C    625.5t             50.01    706.79   302 4!94.4
Staff Cost                                       _  135.60        -   135.60     6.78     10.84    153.22    6.8    42.8l
Maintenance                                   _     339.40    42.43   381.83    19.09     36.72    437.64    145.25    33.2
Other Operating Cost                  _;120.00    15.00   135.0                  6.75     12.34    154.09    52.8     34
Total Recurrent Costs                      _        151.0i   126.931 1.277.93    63.901   109.92  1.451.74   566.18    39.0
Total                                     794.13   1,660.26   336.78  2,791.17   199.58    148.981  3.139.73  1,999.66    63.7
11 PPF financed procurement of goods and consutancies of the project durng prepatory stage.
2/ IDA does not finance taxes; its contribution to total project cost net of taxes is 66 percent.
3/ Items procured by the Wortd Bank on behalf of the borrower
4/ Items Procured Locally by the Borrowers
- 25 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
Summary of benefits and costs:
This Annex analyses the cost effectiveness of training programs through the Global Distance Learning
Network (GDLN). It compares the cost of delivering distance learning training courses with currently
available conventional training and course delivery options for the target market.
There are, at present, several training institutes in Sri Lanka offering various short and long term training
programs catered to the needs of the public and private sector. Some of these institutions and their
mandates can be summarized as follows, see Section B-2 for details.
i.     The Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration (SLIDA), an arm of the civil service,
trains senior and middle-level civil servants in management and development. It also inducts new recruits
into the administrative service.
ii.    The Sri Lanka Institute of Local Governance (SLILG) helps train bureaucrats at the local and
provincial level.
iii.    The SLILG will offer courses through eight provincial-level "Management Development
Training Units" (MDTU). However, only one provincial MDTU has been fully set up.
iv.    The Sri Lanka Institute of Directors (SLID), established by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
to provide training and technical advice for corporate executives. Distance leaming is intended in part to
support and strengthen the SLID program by linking it to intemational best practice.
v.     The Center For Banking Studies, is the training arm of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and offers
course modules in commercial and investment banking, fund management, risk management and financial
sector development.
vi.    The Skills Development Fund was established in early 2000 following the recommendations of the
"Presidential Task Force on Tertiary Education and Vocational Training". It provides (i) job entry training
for new recruits; (ii) on-the-job training for managers; and (iii) retraining to facilitate flexible labor markets
and retrenchment.
vii.   The Maharajah Institute of Management and the Ceylinco-owned International College of
Business and Technology are fully owned subsidiaries of the parent company and are intended to upgrade
the skills of employees, provide a foreign MBA education within Sri Lanka, and help introduce
intemational best practice and knowledge to corporate staff
In the absence of reliable and comprehensive data on the training market in Sri Lanka, preliminary data
was obtained on the cost of offering courses for the institutions mentioned above. This data will be used to
compare the cost of training programs currently available in the country with those programs proposed for
the Distance Learning Center (DLC) Company.
One indicator to compare costs of course delivery is the unit cost of course delivery per student day in
the current system of in-service training of professionals with the one proposed for the DLC Company.
-26 -



This indicator reflects all measurable features, but does not reflect the less tangible but as important feature
of easier/wider access to state-of-the-art knowledge. For example, courses taught by local resource persons
might not have the same standard as courses delivered through the GDLN. In a comprehensive evaluation
these benefits need to be factored in, though hard to quantify.
The following brief analysis will compare the unit cost of course delivery of the current system available in
Sri Lanka with the one proposed for the DLC Company.
1. Unit Cost in the Sri Lanka Distance Learning Center:
In the case of the GDLN, the unit cost of course delivery per student per day is defined as total operating
cost plus average (re-investment cost divided by the total number of students taught at the average course
length. The estimated cost structure of the GDLN looks as follows:
Sri Lanka - Distance Learning Center
Calculation of Per Unit Cost
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5
Operating Cost (US$)             248,430      374,050      402,300     427,140       457,497
Average Re-investment Cost       156,162     156,162      156,162       156,162      156,162
(US$)
Total Cost (US$)                 404,592     530,212      558,462       583,300       613,659
Capacity Utilization (%)          29%          39%          52%          58%          68%
Student Participation (No of      5,300       7,100        9,360        10,425        12,300
Student) 
Cost Per Student Per Day (US$)     76           75          60            56           50
The DLC is designed to have two computer class rooms, and one videoconference room with a total
capacity of 74 seats. In Sri Lanka, there are 245 working days per year, leaving aside weekends and public
holidays. This means that the DLC can accommodate 18,130 participants each year if it runs at full
capacity. However, it is estimated that the operating capacity utilization of DLC will increase gradually,
reaching 68% in the fifth year of operation. Capacity utilization of 29% in the first year implies that 5,300
student day use the DLC facilities. Given the cost of operation of USS 404,592, unit cost is US$ 76 per
day per student in the first year. It is envisioned that as more students use the Center, the per unit cost of
operation will decline to approximately US$ 50 in the fifth year. Considering the cost structure of DLC, it
is further expected that, over 90 percent of the capacity of the center will be utilized in the long run and per
unit cost will decline and stabilize at about US$ 37 per student per day.
2. Unit Cost of the Existin2 Training System:
In this section, the cost per student per day will be presented for training programs offered by local
institutions as well as the cost of intemational training.
2.1. Unit Cost for Short Term Proerams conducted Locallv
These programs are conducted within Sri Lanka and use local lecturers and trainers. The cost of training
programs vary slightly depending on the subject matter. Programs on marketing, information technology
and computer science are more expensive (by up to 40 percent) than other programs such as human
resources development, engineering, etc. Therefore, figures in the table indicate the range of average per
unit cost. Most of these programs are organized for groups which makes the per unit cost lower. On
- 27 -



average these courses are one to two days in duration, with the majority also providing lunch and tea for
the participants. It should be mentioned that this is the per unit operating cost. Most of these institutions
have their own premises and class rooms.
Training Institutions                                                    Average Estimate Per Unit
Cost (in US$)
Public Sector Training Institutions
Local Training at Sri Lanka Institute for Development Administration (SLIDA)     7.5 - 15.0
Local Training at Sri Lanka Institute of Local Governance SLILG)                 9.5 - 12.7
Local Training at Center for Banking Studies (CBS)                               10.0 - 20.0
Sri Lanka Skills Development Fund                                               20.0 - 25.0
Private Sector Training Institutions
Local training at Sri Lanka Institute of Directors (SLID) or the Chamber of        32.0
Commerce
2.2. Per Unit Cost for Longer Term Proerams
Corporate Conglomerates such as Maharajahs and Ceylinco have set up their own training institutions
which are fully owned subsidiaries of their parent company. Ceylinco, for example, has several training
arms such as: (i) Ceylinco Insurance College offering programs in risk management, financial markets and
related topics; (ii) CISCO for information technology programs; (iii) ICBT which offers programs in
tertiary education, marketing, banking, and related fields; and (iv) Ceylinco Center for excellence for short
term management development programs. Many of these programs give trainees a certificate or diploma
which is highly valued by students and is considered to be an important factor to attract participants.
Ceylinco will offer a degree/diploma program with the collaboration of University of Western Sydney in
January 2001. This program will invite international lecturers or send local instructors abroad for training
to educate students upon their return. The cost for a two year program is US$ 9,500.
Programs organized by the ICBT                                            Estimated cost per day per
student
Short term two weeks training with expatriate teachers (cost of bringing a teacher      63
from Region)
Two Years program on Business Management @ US$ 9,500 per program per student            18
CISCO six month program @ US$ 9,000 per program per student                             65
2.3 International Trainin2
In the case of training professionals overseas, the unit cost of course delivery per student per day is defined
as the travel plus subsistence cost of each student. On average, the unit costs of courses delivered
internationally are approximately US$ 151 and US$ 357 per student day in the region and elsewhere
respectively. It is assumed that no tuition fee is charged for courses to make it comparable to GDLN
(where it is also assumed that there is no fee for course content). In most cases course fees abroad are
waived for Sri Lankan Government participants. Where there is a charge, the international training cost
would be significantly higher.
-28 -



Foreign Training            Travel Cost   Subsistence     Cost of 1 week      Cost per day per
(US$)        (US$)         program (US$)       student (US$)
At the Region (South-East       250           115             1,055                151
At Overseas   (UK, USA)        1,100         200              2,500                357
2.4 Total Unit Cost of Current Trainin2 System
The quality and content of programs that will be offered through GDLN are not comparable to those
organized by local training agencies While the GDLN program makes the latest and best practices
accessible to senior decision-makers and high-level practitioners who demand such training, the local
programs offered by the government training institutions are geared to middle to lower level officers.
The overall training required at present in the devolved authorities is of a rudimentary nature and includes
office management, English language skills, computer literacy and the induction of new recruits. The
Hi-tech DLC program will not be the best instrument to address such needs. These courses often use local
resources and are much less costly than GDLN programs.
The GDLN programs should instead be compared with international training opportunities available for Sri
Lankan decision-makers. The information presented above clearly indicates that the per unit cost of the
programs offered through the GDLN is much more effective than international training, assuming the same
quality and course content. This will be specially true in the long run when the DLC is expected to use 80
to 90 percent of its capacity, which will bring down the per unit cost of training. The GDLN courses will
benefit senior-level management and decision-makers, who pressed for time, prefer a time effective
program.
The DLC is therefore a cost-effective training option for its target group of senior decision-makers.
Main Assumptions:
See above
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
See above
- 29 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
Financial Feasibility Analysis of the Distance Learning Center
1. Distance learning, using the state-of the art telecommunications facilities and video conferencing, is new
to Sri Lanka and for that matter to many parts of the World. Therefore, market demand for such mode of
training has not been fully tested world wide and in particular in developing countries. A Market Survey
for DLC in Sri Lanka was conducted recently and its findings indicate that there is interest and demand for
distance learning; more from the private sector than from the public sector. However, the market demand
for and receptivity of such method of training will only be tested when the center is operational. The
supply of training programs (quality of courses, timing, content, quality of trainers, quality of facilities and
transmission of programs, and management of the center) and demand for distance learning training
(attendance, request for specific programs, etc.) will determine the price in the market. It is expected that
pricing policy, cost sharing principle, level of demand, and utilization of the center will be established
during a pilot phase of six months to one year. The pilot phase should help the DLC management team to
better set their financial and market goals, design an appropriate marketing policy, and revise their
Business Plan accordingly.
The financial analysis presented in this Annex (Table C) was conducted to determine the terms of financial
viability of the proposed project. In the absence of adequate and reliable data regarding the training market
in Sri Lanka, some assumptions were made regarding pricing policy, cost sharing principle, level of
demand, and DLC capacity utilization during the life of the project and for 10 years beyond. These
assumptions were based on several interviews with the public and private sector, the Market Survey
conducted in October-December 2000, estimated DLC operating costs, and the goal of the center to become
financially self-sustainable in the fourth year of operations.
Main assumptions.
2. Revenue Generation Capacity of the DLC: the most crucial set of assumptions pertains to the revenue
generation pattems. To derive an estimated/projected annual revenue for the DLC Company, assumptions
were made on the type of training programs to be provided by the WBI, those based on the experience of
other distance learning centers (Seminars and Global Development leaming), and those programs to be
offered by other institutions (WTO, ILO, universities, etc.). Based on the physical capacity of the center,
and type and duration of the courses, assumptions were made regarding the average participant's days per
year. The numbers present a conservative scenario, in view of the fact that DLC is new to the Country.
Given Sri Lanka's holidays per year, capacity utilization of the DLC was estimated to be around 30 percent
in the first year, increasing gradually to about 60 percent by the 4th year of the project life and will further
increase to 80-90 percent in the medium to long term. Table C shows that the average cost of providing
training per student will decline with increasing capacity utilization. The average training fee is set at
around US$ 25 per student per day in the first year, increasing gradually with increasing demand for the
DLC facilities to US$ 45 in the 4th year of operation. It is assumed that the fee paid by the private sector
will be higher than fee paid by the public sector, at a ration of 4 to 1. That is, assuming utilization of the
private and public sector per year to be 50/50, the private sector fee per student per year will be US$ 40
and that for the public sector will be US$ 10. This price seems to be competitive and affordable for most
public and private institutions and is therefore expected to attract more students in both sectors.
- 30 -



3. Other financial revenue: the amount of financial support to the DLC Company to balance its operating
cost over the first years of operation is determined by the extent to which the Center can generate its own
revenue. Hence, it is defined as the residual between the revenue generated and total funding required to
cover operating costs before depreciation.
Operating Cost.
4. Satellite Bandwidth Rent: the satellite bandwidth cost includes the yearly rental cost for the bandwidth
and a corresponding service charge. Bandwidth costs are fixed costs, i.e. they do not depend on capacity
utilization rates. Annual base cost is estimated at US$138,700 on the basis of existing rates provided by
the supplier.
5. Personnel: The center will need 5 local staff which include a Director (CEO), a Training Coordinator,
an IT Manager, an Accountant/Financial Management Specialist, and an Administrative Secretary.
Annual salaries are based on the market rate currently prevalent in the country which will increase
according to the annual inflation rate.
6. Maintenance: the estimated maintenance costs are based on the following assumptions: locally
procured equipment (personal computers, furniture, etc.) and civil works have a yearly maintenance of 10%
of initial investment cost; internationally procured equipment (equipment for videoconferencing room) has a
yearly maintenance cost of 20% of initial investment cost. This high rate accounts for possible contracting
out maintenance activities of sensitive equipment to a qualified foreign or regional company.
7. Utilities: utility costs include expenditure on electricity, telephone and water, which were estimated to
cost around US$15,000 in the initial year and increase with the annual inflation rate.
8. Variable Operating Cost: These mainly comprise costs related to office supply, local travel,
marketing, and other variable costs. It is also estimated that the Global DLCs will share some of the World
Bank management fee starting the third year of their operations. The costs are US$ 10,000, $ 20,000, and
S 30,000 from year 3 onward.
9. Depreciation and Re-Investment Cost: equipment is assumed to depreciate at different rates.
Depreciation assumptions were made according to the rate applied for similar equipment in other DLCs.
Re-investment costs is expected to be born by the DLC Company when the time comes, and based on the
assumptions that DLC's goal is to become self-sustainable and commercially-run in the fourth or fifth year
of its operations.
10. Financial Statements and Results. Based on the above assumptions, basic financial statements of the
Center have been determined for the first five years of operation. Annex 5, Table C (financial summary for
revenue-generating entities) presents the income and cash flow statement as well as its projected balance
sheet. It shows that under the above assumptions (excluding depreciation), the Distance Learning Center
will be economically viable and self-sustaining (reach its break-even point) once its capacity utilization rate
attains or exceeds 50% (representing sale of over 9,000 student-days per year). The fee charged per
student per day is a subsidized fee and will only cover part of the operating cost of the operation. The IDA
Credit will cover the balance until the Center is self-sustainable and capable of generating operating
surplus starting fourth year of its operations. From the market perspective, this fee seems to be reasonable
considering the demand for the DLC and capacity \ willingness of the public and private sector to pay for
these type of courses.
- 31 -



11. The income statement suggests that the break-even point (operating cost minus depreciation) will be
attained in the fourth year, when the capacity utilization rate reaches 52% (at a unit cost of US$ 40 per day
per student). With increasing capacity utilization of the DLC and higher fee, the DLC Company can run
an operating surplus. The overall equilibrium (including depreciation to allow for reinvestment) is attained
in the sixth year at an utilization rate of 70% and a unit price of US$ 50 per day per student.
To achieve this goal, an intensive marketing campaign will be needed from the DLC management team to:
diversify distance learning products and services, win customer loyalty through steadily improving quality
of service and competitive pricing, and provide training courses that meet expressed demand and client
expectations. This emphasizes the importance of a qualified business-oriented manager to develop effective
marketing tools and attract enough clients to ensure Center competitiveness and financial sustainability.
12. Initial pricing of the Center's services aims at promoting DLC products, and attracting more decision
makers to strengthen their managerial and policy formulation capacity, which is difficult to quantify in
economic and financial terms. Consequently, the operating deficit (excluding depreciation) of the first three
years will be covered through special Government support through IDA credit proceeds from this proposed
LIL. This financial support will match the exact deficit (without depreciation), projected to be around US
$280,000 for the first three years, making up about 44% of generated income over that period. This
support will be provided on a decreasing basis over this 3-year period as follows: 85% of operating cost in
the first year, 50% in the second, and 10% in the third. As the initial subsidized training fee of US$25 per
person, is in the low range, it may be raised in relation to the market demand for certain high-demand
courses. A flexible market-driven pricing policy should improve the financial viability of the project.
-32 -



A. Project Cost by Category
(US$ 000)
Totals Including Contingencies
Years                       1         2         3        4       Total
1. Investment Costs
Civil Works                                  453.38                 L - 1            453.38
Goods                                         888.6          T        T        T     888.63
PPF-Goods (Furniture, Other Equipment)         54.70        -         -        -      54.70
DLC Equipment la                             833.93          T          T            833.93
DLC Global Connectivity Equipment           250.54         -        -        -      250.54
DLC Pedagogical tools                       311.41         -        -        -      311.41
DLC Local Area Network (LAN)                 37.38         -        -        -      37.38
DLC Logistics                                97.14         -        -        -      97.14
DLC Local Equipment/b                       137.47         -                        137.47
Consultant Services and Training              134.33    68.36    70.60    72.69      345.98
Local Consultants                              6.03      6.23      6.49    6.68       25.42
Intemational Consultants                      52.81     54.44    56.20    57.87      221.31
Foreign Training                               14.92     7.68      7.91    8.15       38.67
2. PPF-Consultants Services                   60.57                   -       -       60.57
Total Investment Costs                  T 1476.34       68.36    70.60    72.69    1.687.99
il. Recurrent Costs                                           ___
Operatinc Cost
Satellite Bandwidth and Servicing Cost        167.52    173.26   180.42   185.59     706.79
Staff Cost                                    36.32     37.56    39.11    40.23      153.22
Maintenance                                    17.47    134.99   140.57   144.60     437.64
Other Operating Cost                          27.12     28.05    42.19    56.74      154.09
Total Recurrent Costs                         248.42    373.86   402.30   427.16   1j45174
Total Project Cost                          1,724.76    442.22   472.90   499.85    3,139.73
B. Required Financing
Required Financing                            1         2        3        4        Total
Project Operating Cost                        248.4    373.9    402.3   427.2        1,451.7
Revenue Generation                            106.0    237.2    365.4   458.6        1 2
Operating Profit/Loss                         -142.4   -136.7    -36.9    31.5       -284.5
total investment Cost                        1,476.3     68.4      70.6    72.7      1,688.0
Total Surplus /Deficit                      -1,618.8   -205.0   -107.5   -41.2    -1,972.5
- 33 -



Table 1: Project Operating Financing
Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project (UL)
C. Financial Summary for Revenue Eaming Project Entities
1fi1611                                  1            2           3            4            5            6            7            8
operabnq assumption:
% caDacitv utitisation                      29%          39           52%          58%         68%          74%          81%          81 y4
number of student days                     5,30         7,1          9,30        10.425       12,30        13,36       14,68        14.680
pice per student Der dav (US$)                20           34          40           45           45           50           55           E1
Revenue                                  106,000      237.200     36400         456.000      533500      630,t        763          837.110
Fixed Operating Cost                     221,310      346,000     360.110      370.400      388.920      408.366      428784       450,224
Satelite Bandwidth Rent                  167.520     173.500      180,400      185,600      194.880      204.624      214,855      225,598
Personnel                                 36,          37,500       39          40,200       42,210       44,321       46,537       48,86
Maintenance                               17470       135,000      140,60      144,600      151.830      1594         167,393      175,76
Variable Operattng Cost                  -             28,050      32190       36,740        3,5         40,506       42,531       44,658
Other Ooeratina Cost                                               10,0I0        20.000       30.000      30.000       40,000       40,00
Total Ooeratmin Cost                     248A30       374,050     402,300      427,140      457,497      478,872      511,315      534.881
ODerabnq Profit I Deficit                 142.        136,85       -36.90                    76.003      1511,3       25198        302,229
Grant for Operating Cost                 142430       136.850      36,900
Total Operatin Profit I Defidt               .                                   286          76,0       151          251,985      302,2
Depreciabon                                           156.162     156,162       156,162      156,162     156.162      156,162      156,162
Conmmitment Fee / Interest                                                 _
Net Income                                           -156,162     -156.162     .127,302      -80,159       -4.834      958         146.
Resources
Net Income                                           -156,162     -156,162     -127,302     -80,159       -4834        95,822      146,066
Depreciation added bacrk                              156,162      156,162     156.162      156.162      156162       156,162      156.1E2
Loan I Credit Proceeds                  400           180,000   159,00    159000
Total Resources                        1,480.000      180,000      180,000      187.860       76,003      151,328     251,98       302.229
Expenses                                                     I .
Inital Investment and Re-investment    1,480,000       670.6                    72,690       66,560      97,424      332.162       75,948
Loan Reoavmnent (Prrncoal)                                                                          .
Total Expenses                         1,480.000       68,360      70,600       72,690       66,560       97,424      332,162      75,948
Net Cash Flow                                -         1640       1       0J4 0                413 53                 (801771 
Net Cumulative Cash                                   111.640     221,040      336.210      345.653      399.558      319,380     54566-
Net Fixed Assets                       1.480.000    1,392,198    1,306,635    1,223,163    1.133,561   1        .074,822  1250,821  1,170.607
Plus Cumulative DeDreciation                  0       156,162     312,325      468.487      624.649      780.812      936.974  1.093,136
Fixed Assets                           1.480.00     1.548.360    1.618.960    1.691.650    1.758.210    1.855,634    2.187.795    2263.743
Total Assets                           1,480,000    1,660,000    1,840,000    2,027860        2,103,863     2,255,191  2,507,176    2809.404
Long Term Loan                         1.480.000    1,660.000    1,840.000    1.999.000    1.999,000 _1,999000      1,999,000    1,999,000
Equity (Capital & Retained Eamings)          -           -            -         28860         104,863     256,191     508,176     810404
Total Uabilitbes                        1.480.000   1,660,0      1     00    2,027.860    2.103863    2.255,191     2,507.176    2.809.404
- 34 -



Table I (contd.): Project Operating
Sri Lanka: Distance Leaming Project (LIL)
C. Financial Summary for Revenue Eaming Project Entities
Yearsk0on oalk,n,               9            10           11           12           13           14           15           16
operabnq assumption:
% capacity utilisaton                        88%          88%          90%          90%          98%           980X 98%                  98%
number of student days                      15,995       15,99        16,395       16,          17,715       17.71'       1771         17,71
onrce Der student per day (US$)                67i          73           81           891          97           107          118          130i
Revenue                                  1.008,607    1,107.061    1,223,375    1,342,51     1,602,179    1,75919       1.931,916    2.121,90
Fixed Operating Cost                      472,735      496,371      521,190      547,249      574,612      603,343      633,510       665,185
Satellite Bandidth Rent                   236.878      248.7'2      261,158      274.216      287.92i      302,323      317,439       333,311
Personnel                                  51,307       53,872       56,565       59,394       62,363       65,482       68,756        72,193
Maintenance                               184.550      193,778      203,467      213,6(       224,3Z       2355         247,31        259,681
Variable Operafing Cost                     46,891       49.235       51,697       54.28        56.996       59,848       62,838       65.980
Other Operatina Cost                       40.000        40.000      40.000        40.000       40.000       40.000       40,000       40,000
Total Operating Cost                      559,625      585.607      612,887      641,531      671,608      703.188      736,348       771,165
Operating Profit/ Deficit                 448,982       521.461      610.488      700,981      930,571    1,056,009    1,195,569     1,350,743
Grant for Operating Cost
Total Operating Profit I Deficit          448,982       521,46       610,488      700,981      930.571    1 ,056,00E    1.195,569    1,350,743
Depreciation                              156,162       156.162      156.162      156.162      156.162      156.162      156t162      156,162
Commitment Fee / Interest
NetIncome                                 29Z820       365.         454,32        54,81        774,4        899,       1,039,406     1,194,581
SuMVMCash R0W$m,t_
Resources
Net Income                                292,820      365,299      454.326      544,819      774,409      899,        1,039,406    1,194,581
Deprecia6on added back                    156,162      1561         156,162      156,162      156, 162     1561 6        156,162      156.162
Loan / Credit Proceeds                                              0        0               0            0                   0            0
Tobl Resources                            448.902       521,461      610,488      700.981      930.571    1,056009      1,195,569    1350,743
Expenses
Ini6al Investment and Re-investment       79,395      315,480       90,807      161,533       99,397       387,014      341,332
Loan RepaVment (Prnipaal)
Total Expenses                             79395       315,480       90,807      161533        99,397      387,014      341,332            0
Net Cash Flow                             369,587      205,981      519,681      539,448      831,174      668,995      854,236     1,350,743
- Sumrnav BabrloeSheO
Net Cumulative Cash                       915,248    1,121,229     15640.911   2.180,359    3,011,533    3.680.528     4.534.764    5.885,507
Net Fixed Assets                        1,093.840    1,253,158     1,187802     1,193,173    1136407      1 ,367259    1,552,429    1.396,267
Plus Cumulative Deoreciation            1,249,298    1,405,461    1,561.623     1,717.785    1,873.948    2,030.110    2,186,272    2,342.435
Fixed Assets                            2,343,139    2,658619     2.749.425    2,910.958     3.010.355    3.397.369    3,738,701    3,7383701
Total Assets                            3,258,386    3,779848     4,390,336     5,091,317    6,021,888    7.077,896    8,273,465    9,624,208
Long Term Loan                          1,999000     1,999,000     1,999,000    1.999,000    1,999,000    1.999,000    1,999,000    1,999.000
Equity (Capital & Retained Eamings)     1,259.386    1,780,848    2,391,336    3,092,317    4,022,888    5,078,896     6,274,465    7,625,208
Total Liabilities                       3,258,386    3.7796848    4,390.336     5,091.317    6.021.888    7.0771896    8,273,465    9.624,208
- 35 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
Procurement
1. The procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out in keeping with the DLC Company's
Procurement Plan cleared with IDA. The management of procurement activities under the project will be
the responsibility of the DLC Company.
The only civil works financed under the project entails the construction of a fourth floor in SLIDA
estimated at $ 340,000, to house the proposed DLC with a video conference room, two computer rooms,
and an administrative office. The DLC Company invited bids in August and awarded the contract in
November, 2000. IDA procurement guidelines were followed.
Goods to be procured include: (i) Global Connectivity Equipment for DLC ($250,000); (ii) Local Area
Network for DLC ($ 38,000); (iii) Pedagogical Equipment for DLC ($ 312,000); (iv) IT accessories ($
137,000); (v) office equipment $(6,000); (vi) air-conditioning/generator plant for DLC ($ 112,000); and
(vii) fumiture ($ 38,000).
The consultancy assignments envisaged include: (i) a Market Survey ($12,500); (ii) preparation of a
Business Plan ($12,500): (iii) Market Strategy ($12,500); and (iv) other Technical Assistance ($49,000).
2. The DLC Company will prepare Procurement Schedules for civil works, goods and services, including
contract packages. Procurement of works, goods and services under the project will be carried out in
accordance with the provisions of Bank's, "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", published January 1995 and revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999. Procurement of consultants will be in accordance with the provision of the "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", January 1997 revised September 1997 and
January 1999.
The Procurement Methods applicable to various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A.
Procurement Thresholds and prior review requirements are outlined in Table B.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
3. Works: This will be carried out following NCB procedures given the nature and magnitude of the
construction of an additional floor to an existing building to house the DLC.
4. Goods: IDA (ISG Department) will procure Global Connectivity Equipment, Local Area Network, and
Pedagogical Equipment for the DLC on behalf of the Borrower (for compatibility reasons with the Global
Distance Learning Network) on a direct contracting basis to benefit from bulk discount from Bank
suppliers. To this end, a Procurement Agreement (annexed to the DCA) will be signed between the GOSL
and IDA.
The DLC Company will procure other IT accessories ($137,000) such as UPS, Scanner, VHS recorders
and TV monitors, and office equipment ($6,000) following National Shopping (NS) Procedures.
Installation of two elevators and air-conditioning plant for DLC will be procured following NCB procedure
under two separate contracts. Furniture estimated to cost $38,000 will be procured by NS.
- 36 -



5. Consultancy Services and Studies: All the consultancy services and the studies envisaged under the
project are of small duration and involve small amounts. These consultants will be selected through a
shortlist and based on Consultants' qualification following paragraph 3.7 of the guidelines or on the basis
of selection of individual consultants following section V of the guidelines.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
6. Civil Works: IDA's prior review was obtained for the construction of the DLC.
7. Goods: IDA's prior approval will be required for all NCB contracts. All other contracts will be
subjected to post review.
8. Consultant Services:. IDA will review the TOR, cost estimates, and short list for all consultancy
contracts.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000),
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        NCB             NS           Other        Total Cost
1. Works                    340.9                                       340.9
(289.8)                                     (289.8)
2 Goods
Connectivity Equipment                                    562.0         562.0
Pedagogical Equipment                                   (465.2)        (465.2)
IT accessories, office                     272.0                        272.0
equipment, LAN                            (225.2L                       (225.2)
Plant for DLC               112.5                                       112.5
(95.6)                                      (95.6)
Sub total    112.5          272.0          562.0         946.4
(95.6)        (225.2)       (465.2)        (786.0)
3. Services
National consultants                                      25.4           25.4
(22.6)        (22.6)
International Consultants                                221.3          221.3
(196.7)       (196.7)
Foreign Training                                          38.7           38.7
(38.7)        (38.7)
Sub total                                                285.4
(258.0)
4.Recurrent Costs                                                       1451.7
(566.2)
5. PPF                                                                  115.3
(100.0)
Total Project Cost                                                      3139.7
(1999.6)
1\ items procured by the World Bank on behalf of the Borrower
- 37 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
2. Works                   All  contracts                NCB             Prior review in accordance
civil Works                                                             with paragraph 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Procurement Guidelines
2. Goods                All contracts estimated to       NCB             Prior review in accordancel
cost over US $ 25,000                          with paragraph 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Procurement Guidelines
All other contracts            NS                   Post review
3. Services               Contracts over US $          SBCQ, IC            With respect to each
12,500                                       contract for the
employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US $ 12,500
or more, the procedure set
forth in paragraphs 1, 2
(other than the third
sub-paragraph of
paragraph 2 (a) and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the
Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 38 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
I. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
1.    Financial Management Arrangements: The Distance Learning Center (DLC) Company will be
responsible for the implementation of the project. The Chief Executive Officer, who will be supported by a
team of professionals, including an Accountant, will lead the implementation efforts.
2.    Internal Controls: The internal control framework of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration (SLIDA) will be the basis for the intemal control system of the project. SLIDA's internal
control framework is similar to the Financial Regulations (FRs) of the GOSL, which are well established
and documented and cover almost every aspect of financial administration. The internal control system of
SLIDA will be adopted for the project in so far as it is relevant to the operations of DLC. This system is
expected to provide the necessary safeguards for ensuring orderly and efficient conduct of project activities.
(A review of the FRs can be found in the Country Profile of Financial Accountability report and in the
Country Financial Accountability Assessment study carried out by consultants.)
3.    Accounting System: Separate set of accounts will be maintained for recording all financial
transactions of the Company. The Chart of Accounts to be used for the project would be similar to the one
that is currently being used by SLIDA, modified slightly to suit the specific needs of the project (SLIDA 's
chart of accounts is available in the project files). As DLC has been registered as a public limited liability
company, it will follow the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, which are similar to the International
Accounting Standards in all material aspects, and maintain accounts on an accrual basis.
4.     Financial Accounting Procedures Manual: Though the DLC Company will adopt the existing
internal control systems and chart of accounts of SLIDA, the DLC is required to develop a Financial
Accounting Procedures Manual to record these guidelines for future reference. This will enable easy
reference to DLC policies and procedures.
5.     Computerization: The DLC Company will take necessary action to identify and/or modify a
suitable accounting software for computerization of the Company accounting and reporting system. As the
DLC Company's operations are similar to that of a profit oriented company, identification or development
of a suitable accounting package is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
6.     Staffing: An Accountant will be recruited to the DLC Company by April 1, 2001 to supervise the
financial management aspects of the project and to be responsible for ensuring timely recording and reliable
reporting of all financial transactions.
7.    Auditing: The Company's accounts will be audited by an audit firm to be appointed by the
Auditor-General of Sri Lanka that is acceptable to IDA. The DLC Company will be responsible for
submitting to IDA annual audited project financial statements, within six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
II. DISBURSEMENTS
8.    The project will follow the traditional disbursement method. Given that the DLC Company is
expected to operate as a self-financing entity at the end of the project period, it is important to build its
- 39 -



financial management capacity for managing regular operations. This entails maintaining records in
accordance with the SLAS, on an accrual basis, and managing cashflows of the DLC Company's operating
activities. Thus, it is proposed to relieve the DLC Company of the burden of preparing PMRs for
disbursement purposes, i.e. classifying transactions for PMR reporting and forecasting cashflows of its
start-up activities. Instead, the focus would be on building DLC Company's capacity to operate as a private
sector company. However, the DLC Company will produce the full set of Project Management Reports
(PMRs) throughout the life of the project. The requirements for the reports will be kept simple.
9.    Special Account (SAK: The DLC Company will be responsible for opening and operating a SA at
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka according to terms and conditions acceptable to the IDA. The SA will be
denominated in US Dollars. The amount of advance in the SA should not, at any given time, exceed the
equivalent of US$ 250,000.
10.   Statement of Expenditure (SQE): Withdrawals under the credit may be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedure for:
(a)    Contracts for goods and equipment costing less than $ 25,000 each
(b)    Contracts for consultancy services with individuals costing less than $ 50,000
(c)    Contracts for consultancy services with firms costing less than $ 100,000
(d)    All incremental operating costs and training expenses
11.   Retroactive Financing: To assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) with prompt execution of
Bank-financed operations, the credit will retroactively finance IDA's share of eligible project expenditures
paid for by the GoSL prior to the credit signing date. Therefore, payments made for eligible project
expenditures before the date of the Credit Agreement, but after December 1, 2000, in respect of
disbursement category 1 can be claimed under the Credit, subject to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of US $ 200,000.
12.   Project Management Reports: The DLC Company will produce the full set of PMRs from the
inception of the project. The requirements for the reports will follow the simplified formats. The reports
will not be used as the basis for disbursements, unless and until it is mutually agreed by the DLC Company
and IDA. Refer to the Project Files for the PMR formats.
13.   Allocation of Credit Proceeds: The disbursement categories to be used for the project and
allocations of the credit proceeds amongst these categories are given in the table below.
14.   Action Plan
ACTION                                   TARGET DATE
I1.   Recruitment of an Accountant     |April 1, 2001
2.   Financial Accounting Procedures Manual  JulY 31, 2001
3.   Computerization of Accounts         December 31, 2001
15.   Documents in Project Files
(i)    Chart of Accounts of SLIDA
(ii) -  Parliamentary Act establishing the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and
subsequent amendments to the Act.
(iii)   Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Distance Learning Centre Limited.
- 40 -



(iv)   Financial Statements of SLIDA for the year ended December 31, 1999.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Civil works                                0.35            100% of foreign expenditure; 85% of
local expenditure
Goods                                      0.63           100% of foreign expenditure; 100% of
local expenditure (ex-factory cost); and
85% of local expenditure for other items
procured locally.
Consultant Services and Training           0.25                         100%
Incremental Operating Costs                0.54           80% for 2001; 66% for 2002; 30% for
2003; 0% for 2004
Project Preparation Facility               0.10
Unallocated                                0.14
Total Project Costs                        2.01
Total                                      2.01
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
See above
Special account:
See above
- 41 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     9                            12
First Bank mission (identiflcation)            11/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                    07/03/2000                   11/05/2000
Negotiations                                   08/15/2000                   01/25/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/01/2000                   03/15/2001
Prepared by:
Distance Leaming Center Company
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciaitl
Naresha Duraiswamy               Task Leader, Institutional Development
Shideh Hadian                    Project Finance and Institutional Development
Gyanchander Gongireddy           Distance Leaming Technology
Mansoor Dailami                  Distance Learning Pedagogy
Julitta Rasiah                   Financial Management
Jayantha de Mel                  Procurement
Suresh Peiris                    Infornation Technology
- 42 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower Project Implementation Plan - November, 2000. Please see Project Files
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Mission Back To Office Report - December 1999.
Appraisal Mission Aide Memoir- November 2000
C. Other
Market Survey - December 2000. Please see Project Files
*Including electronic files
- 43 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
Dec-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD_        IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P044809        2000 LEGALANDJUDICIALREFORMS                             0.00      18.20                  0.00       0.00      15.98       -1.10      0.00
P058070        2000 North-East Irnigated Agriculture Proect             0.00      27.00                  0.00       0.00      24.41      -0.75       0.00
P063472        1999 EMERGENCYY2KTA                                      0.00      29.00                  0.00       8.49       4.14      13.98       0.00
P010525        1998 GENERAL EDUCATION II                                D.00      70.30                  0.00       0.00      56.00      30.74       0.00
P034212        1998 MAHAWELIRESTRUCTURI                                 000       57.00                  0.00       0.00      30.10       9.58       0.00
P035828        1998 CONS OF MEDIC PLANTS                                0.00       0.00                  4.60       0.00       2.63       0.47       0.00
P010498        1997 ENERGYSERVICESDLVY                                  0.00      24.20                  5.90       0.00       9.94       3.33       0.00
P010513        1997 ENVIRONMENTALACTION                                 000       14.80                  0.00       0.00       8.64       7.88       0.00
P039965        1997 ENERGY SERV.DLVY.                                   0.00      24.20                  5.90       0.00       3.49       0.94       0.00
P010526        1997 HEALTH SERVICES DEV                                 0.00      18.80                  0.00       3.46       5.17       6.61       0.00
P010517        1996 PVTSECTINFRASDEV                                    0.00      77.00                  0.00       0.00      63.01      61.65       9.75
P042266        1996 TEACH ED &DEPLOYMENT                                0.00      64.10                  0.00       0.00      27.99      24.91       0.00
P042263        1996 TELECOM REG & PUBL.                                 0.00      15.00                  0.00       0.00       4.64       5.68       0.00
P010467        1995 COL. ENV. IMPROV.                                   0.00      39.00                  0.00       0.00      12.46      16.39       0.00
P010409        1993 COMMUNITY WAT SUPP/S                                0.00      24.30                  0.00       0.00       0.00       0.47       0.00
P010412        1993 PUBLIC MAN.ENT.ADJ(SECAL)ISUPP                      0.00       5.80                  0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
P010419        1993 PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJ (PFDP)             0.00      60.00                  0.00       5.21       0.00       2.22       0.00
P010420        1993 CLOSED(T) COLOMBO URB TRANSPOR                      0.00      20.00                  0.00       6.00       0.00       5.74       0.00
P010386        1992 POWER DISTRIBUTION                                  0.00      50.00                  0.00       7.54       0.00       6.30       0.00
P010388        1992 ECON. RESTRUCT. SUPPLEMENTAL                        0.00       5.20                  0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
P010398        1992 SECONDAGRIC.EXTENSI                                 0.00      14.30                  0.00       6.U4       0.00       6.32       0.00
P010363        1991 3RD ROADS                                           0.00      42.50                  0.00       4.69       0.00       3.98       0.00
P010373        1991 TELECOMS. II                                        0.00      57.00                  0.00       7.21       0.00       8.49       8.49
P010378        1991 IRRIG. REHAB.                                       0.00      29.60                  0.00       5.94       0.00       5.01      -0.01
Total:        0.00     787.30               16.40        55.09      268.59     218.83      18.23
- 44 -



SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Aitken Spence                   0.00    2.73     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.73     0.00    0.00
1996/97            Asia Power                      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               DCR Lanka                       0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05      0.00    0.00
1992               Eagle NDB                       0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06      0.00    0.00
1981               Lanka Hotels                    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64      0.00    0.00
1997               Lanka Orix                      1.50    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.16      0.00    0.00
1996               Lanka Orix Lease                1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               MLL                             0.00    0.00     1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.80    0.00
2000               NDB Housing Corp                0.00     1.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Nations Trust                   0.00    1.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.09      0.00    0.00
1997               Packages Lanka                  0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11      0.00    0.00
1992               Pyramid Trust                   0.00    0.25     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25     0.00    0.00
1999               SAGT                           35.00    7.30    0.00    0.00    5.00    2.33      0.00    0.00
1988/95            Union Assurance                 0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        37.61    15.21    1.80     0.00    6.71    8.92     1.80    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Suntel                            0.00      0.00   7500.00      0.00
1998               Apollo Lanka                   5000.00      0.00   1558.15      0.00
2000               NDB Credit Line               35000.00   3500.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     40000.00   3500.00   9058.15      0.00
-45 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka: Distance Learning Project
Lower-
POVERlY and SOCIAL                                    Sri    South   middle-
Lanka      Aaia  income       Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year(millions)                       19.0     1.329    2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   820       440      1,200
GNP (Attes method, US$ bilions)                      15.6      581      2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-9
Population (%)                                        1.3       1.9       11
Laborforce(%)                                         1.6       2.3       1.2     GNP                             Gross
per                           pnmary
Mot recant estimate (latest year availab, 1993-99)                                capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverly line)  25
Urban populabtion (% oftotalpopulation)               22        28        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      73        62        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live birdhs)              17        75        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            38        51        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (X of population)     64        77        86
Illieracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    11        46        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  109      100      114            Sn Lanka
Mate                                               110       110       114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             108        90       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998     1999
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                           3.4      7.0      15.4      16.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP               25.8     21.7      25.1      27.1                    Trade
Exports of goods and servicesvGDP           33.7    27.3       36.2      35.3
Gross domestic savingslGDP                  13.8    12.2       19.1      19.8
Gross national savings/GDP                           14.6      23.8     23.9
Current account balance/GDP                 -6.7     -5.9      -1.5      -3.1     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        0.8      1.6       0.8       1.0     Savings                    Investment
Total debttGDP                              46.2    74.1       55.4      547      Savin
Total debt servicelexports                  12.9    18.6        6.5      10.0
Present value of debtUGDP                                      40.8
Present value of debtlexports                                  90.8
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989949    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 5.0      5.3      4.7       4.3       5.5              Sn Lanka
GNP per capita                      3.4      4.0      3.4       2.4       3.6        --Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       5.5      7.4      1.0       4.0       4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 26.9    25.6       21.1      20.7
Industry                                    28.2    26.8       27.5      27.3    1 0
Manufacturing                             19.1     15.3      16.5      16.4     5 .
Services                                    44.8    47.6       51.4      52.1     F
Private consumption                         77.1    77.3       71.1      71.2           94  9s   95   97   98   99
General government consumption               9.2    10.5        9.6       9.0             -GDI (          OGDP
Imports of goods and services               45.8    36.8       42.2     42.6
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.5      2.1       2.5       4.5   15
Industry                                     5.0      7.1       5.9       6.0                            ^ 
Manufacturing                              5.5      8.3       6.3       4.4 1.
Services                                     6.5      5.6       5.1       4.0
Private consumption                          5.7      5.7       7.5       6.4
General govemment consumption                7.0      5.9       3.4      -2.5     o
Gross domestic investment                    7.5      6.9      15.2       6.4           -                .1 msor s
Imports of goods and services                8.0      8.4      11.5       7.0
Gross national product                       5.0      5.3       4.6       3.9
Note: 1999 data am preliminary estmates.
-The diamonds show four key indicatrs in the country (in bold) compared with ts income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wilt
be incomplete.
- 46 -



Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998       1999     Inflation (%)
Domeatlc prl cea                                                                      2
(% change)                                                                              .
Consumer prices                                10.8     11.6        9.4       4.7    15
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..      8.1        9.2       4.6    ro
Govamment finance                                                                     5
(% of GOP, Includes cuffent grants)
Current revenue                                   ..    24.0       17.9      18.2             54   95   Be    37    98
Current budget balance                           ..      1.4       -1.7      -0.4             -GOP deflator  _CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -8.7        -8.4      -6.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       199B      1999       Export and import lvels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                               ..   1,558      4,798    4,600      eno
Tea                                            ..    379          760      621                          **fl
Other agricultural goods                       ..       ..        352      373      4.000
Manufactures                                   ..      490      2,460     2,425
Total imports (cl)                               ..   2,226       5,890     5,899
Food                                           ..       94       723       655      2n001) '-
Fuel and energy                                ..      165       215       257
Capital goods                                  ..      333      1,477     1,565        o        5    94
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..       141       139
Import price index (1995=100)                    ,         .       116       122                   SlExp.rts     *rmprrts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 ..       121       114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP(%)
Exports of goods and services                 1,134    1,851      5,712     5,565                    ;
Importsofgoodsandservices                     1,537    2,565      6,659     6,718
Resource balance                              -403      -714      -947    -1,153
Net income                                      -15     -163      -160      -253
Net current transfers                            ..       ..       900       911              P
Current account balance                        -226     -414       -227     -495
Financing items (net)                            ..       ..       190       758
Changes in net reserves                          ..       ..        37      -263
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       ..    1,984      1,639
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)               15.6     36.0       66.1      69.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ mil//ions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,554    5,1B1     8,526     8,727
IBRD                                          33       82         26        15                    G. 433  A:15
IDA                                           78      702      1,648     1,651              F 556               :1,51
Total debt service                             159      422        452       683
IBRD                                           7       12          6         8
IDA                                            1        7         24        27                                      C 265
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                              116      195        114
Official creditors                           103      298        379       504
Pnvate creditors                              10       -48       126      -201          E 4,049                   D 1,758
Foreign direct investment                     47       20        193
Portfolio equity                               0        0          6
World Bank program
Commitments                                   68       20         57        56      A - IlRD                     E - Blate|al
Disbursements                                 15       59         97        48      B - IDA    0 - Other multiler.1  F - Priv-te
Principal repayments                           4        7         19         4      C - IMF                      G-Shor-te
Net flows                                     11       53         78        44
Interest payments                              3       12         14        14
Net transfers                                  7       41         64        30
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/9/00
-47 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27509
<                                                   >                                                                  <                                                                   k                                                  z
|                                                                          R H;'  .                                                             A    _ 1f   t            =                        \ f
DECEMBER 1996



