Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3469 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Distance Learning Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 28, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3469 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 2001, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI 
LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors 
of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“the Bank” in the context of paragraph B.3 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement includes the Association;
(b)
“DLC/Center” means the Distance Learning Center of DLC Company ;
(c)
“DLC Company” means the Distance Learning Center Company registered as a 
public limited company and incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Act, No. 17 of 
1982;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1, 2, 3, and 4 set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Equipment/Network equipment” means Global Connectivity Equipment, Local 
Connectivity Equipment, and Pedagogical Equipment for DLC and referred to in paragraph 
B.3 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Procurement Agreement” means the Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Bank whereby the Bank shall assist the Borrower in the 
procurement and installation of the Global Connectivity Equipment under the Project;
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on April 4, 2000; and
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2011 and ending December 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
Page  4
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DLC Company with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and educational practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
For the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Credit available to DLC Company, in accordance with arrangements satisfactory 
to the Borrower and the Association.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause DLC Company to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Page  5
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause DLC Company to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B)
an opinion on such statements and report 
of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least 
one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c)(i) of 
this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Page  6
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, The 
Secretary, or the Director General, External Resources Department, Ministry of Finance 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
The Secretariat
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
SECMINFIN
FINMIN 21409 or
449823
 FORAID 
21232
447633
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
       Telex:
        Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ P.B. Jayasundera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mariana Todorova
Country Director, Sri Lanka
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   280,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
   500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
   200,000
100% 
services and
training
 (4)
Incremental operating
   420,000
80% through December
costs
31, 2001; 66% through 
December 31 2002;
and 30% through 
December 2003; and nil 
thereafter
(5)
Refunding of
    80,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) of
Advance
this Agreement
Page  8
(6)
Unallocated
   120,000
TOTAL
 1,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the cost of operation and 
maintenance of equipment and vehicles, office expenses, and salaries and allowances 
and additional staff, incurred by DLC Company for the carrying out of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except, that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 160,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures in respect of: (a) each 
contract for: (i) goods costing less than $25,000 equivalent; and (ii) consultant’s 
services costing less than $12,500 equivalent; and (b) all training expenses and 
incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
Page  9
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Page  10
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $ 400,000. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project is to pilot a distance learning initiative to: (a) 
strengthen the environment for policy reforms; and (b) build capacity in the public 
and private sectors.
The Project consists of the following component, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Support for the establishment and operation of DLC involving, inter alia, the 
following activities thereunder:
(a)
Selection and relay of distance learning course material;
(b)
Provision of operating costs for DLC;
(c)
Provision of technical assistance for staff training, a market survey, 
development of a business plan, a market campaign, and periodic evaluation of DLC’s 
operation/management effectiveness;
(d)
Establishment of financial accounts/annual audits;
(e)
Purchase and installation of distance learning technology; and
(f)
Works.
Page  11
* *
 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
General
The supply and installation of air-conditioning plant and two elevators for DLC, 
and works for the construction of DLC, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to 
the deadline for the 
submission of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are 
willing to pay the required fee;
(iii)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in 
the bidding process;
(iv)
qualification criteria (in case prequalification was not carried 
out) shall 
be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a registration 
process is 
required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest 
evaluated bidder shall be 
given a reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without let or hindrance;
(v)
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the 
deadline for submission of bids;
(vi)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of 
the Association;
(vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(viii) post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or 
any other bidders;
Page  12
(ix)
rebidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence;
(x)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated 
in the bidding/contract documents;
(xi)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed 
by the Association;
(xii)
a bidder’s Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the 
specific contract 
under which it was furnished;
(xiii) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount 
over the estimated cost;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and
(xv)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of 
the bids.
2.
National Shopping
Except for the equipment referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule, 
information technology (IT) equipment estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $40,000 equivalent, and furniture for DLC estimated to cost up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Network equipment for DLC, for compatibility reasons with the Global Distance 
Network, shall be procured and installed by the Bank on behalf of the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of Procurement Agreement set forth in the Attachment to 
this Agreement.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to works all contracts for the construction of DLC and each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 25,000 or more awarded in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph B.1 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  13
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance and studies may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
individuals estimated to cost equivalent of $12,500 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall cause DLC Company to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
Page  14
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that in the execution of the Project, DLC Company 
shall:
(a)
continuously assess demand for training, identify and program appropriate 
training courses and market the center, and partner with different line agencies and 
training institutes to further its outreach. 
(b)
target its program at the central and provincial public service, the 
private sector and the financial sector, and to this effect partner with Sri Lanka 
Institute of Development Administration (SLIDA) to train civil servants, with Sri 
Lanka Institute of Local Governance (SLILG ) to reach out to provincial 
decision-makers; Sri Lanka Institute of Directors (SLID); Skills Development Fund 
(SDF) and other private training institutions to educate private sector executives; 
and the Center for Banking Studies to train bankers. 
(c)
liaise with relevant Ministries of the Borrower to disseminate technical 
information pertinent to increased private investment in infrastructure/utilities and 
will initially focus on the Ministry of Finance and the Board of Investment of the 
Borrower. 
3.
The Borrower shall cause DLC Company to develop and submit Annual Business Plans 
to the Association by December 1 of each year. The financial component of the Plan 
will detail the financing of operational expenses, and specify credit fund proceeds 
and capital mobilized by DLC Company.
4.
The Borrower shall cause DLC to submit quarterly progress reports in form and 
contents satisfactory to the Association.
