F  E COFY
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3403-=DI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6G4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
November 9, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Djibouti Franc (DF)
Exchange Rate
Calendar 1980    October 1982
US$1                =               DF177.72        DF177.72
DF 1,000            =              US$5.63          US$5.63
DF 1,000,000        =              US$5,627         US$5,627
The rate of DF 175=$1 has been used for appraisal.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  -                3.28  feet
1 kilometer (km)             =                0.62  miles
1 square kilometer (km2)    =                 0.386 sq. miles
1 hectare (ha)               =                2.47  acres
1 metric ton (ton)                            2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
EDF   -   European Development Fund
FAC   -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Fund for Aid & Cooperation of France)
MI    -   Ministry of the Interior
MPW   -   Ministry of Public Works, Urban Affairs and Housing
PtWD   -   Public Works Department
MTTT  -   Ministry of Trade, Transport and Tourism
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DJIBOUTI
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Djibouti
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Public Works, Urban Affairs & Housing
Amount:          SDR 5.7 million equivalent to US$6.4 million
Terms:           Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:  (a)  Objectives:  The objectives of the project are to assist
the Government in strengthening its road administration to
carry out road improvement and maintenance effectively and
economically, thereby (i) providing easier and more
reliable communications between Djibouti City and the
interior; and (ii) reducing transport costs. It would also
provide training to local staff and lay the foundation for
planning and preparing future road projects.
(b) Major Components: (i) A three-year road improvement and
maintenance program including resurfacing of about 25 km of
paved roads, routine maintenance on the 300 km of paved
roads and streets, and spot improvements and maintenance
with hand tools on about 800 km of priority earth roads and
tracks; (ii) improvement of equipment maintenance
facilities, iLncluding construction of workshops in Djibouti
City and service stations in Tadjourah and Dikhil; (iii)
technical assistance comprising consulting services to
strengthen the road administration, to train personnel and
to prepare preinvestment studies to identify the
improvement needs and priorities of the road network, and
fellowships for the training of road maintenance personnel.
(c) Benefits: Facilitating transport within the country for
Tgoods and passengers and a reduction in transport costs;
increased accessibility to health and social services by
those people living in areas now only accessible by track;
better road conditions resulting in lower maintenance
costs; institution building in road administration and
maintenance.
(d) Risks: Usual risks associated with a first project in a
sector. The provision of local financing could cause
problems, because of Government reluctance to use the funds
available, while implementation delays could occur in
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
procurement, recruitment of technical assistance, or
construction of the workshops, which would reduce
benefits. The project's technical assistance component has
been designed to minimize these risks, and frequent
supervision by IDA staff will be required initially.
Estimated Project Costs:
$ thousands equivalent
Local    Foreign    Total
Road Maintenance equipment                      108         973      1,081
Road improvement and maintenance
operating costs                               652         470     1,122
Workshops, contruction & equipment              508       2,514      3,022
Technical assistance                             81         725        806
Fellowships                                       8          72         80
Studies                                          35         310        345
Base Cost                        1,392       5,064      6,456
Physical Contingencies              80         511        591
Price Contingencies                128         823        951
Total Project Cost 1/                       1,600       6,398     7,998
1/ Government has exempted project expenditure from taxes.
Financing Plan:
$ thousands equivalent
Local    Foreign    Total   Percent
of total
IDA                                            --       6,400     6,400       80
Government                                  1,600         -       1,600       20
Total                                       1,600       6,400     8,000      100
Estimated Disbursements:
$ thousands equivalent
IDA FY                                  1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual                                    200    2,300   2,400   1,300       200
Cumulative                               200    2,500   4,900   6,200   6,400
Staff Appraisal
Report:             3867-DI, dated September 24, 1982
Economic Rate
of Return           58 percent for the resurfacing component and morethan 100
percent for the maintenance components. No returns were
calculated for other components.
Map:                  Highway Maintenance Project, Djibouti, No. 16238.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC QF DJIBOUTI
FOR A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendaton on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Djibouti for SDR 5.7 million (US$6.4
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a highway maintenance
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Djibouti Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 3016-DJI)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 3, 1980. An updated
summary of the conclusions is set out below. Country data sheets are provided
in Annex I.
3.        The Republic of Djibouti, which has a land area of 22,000 sq. km.
and is located at the mouth of the Red Sea, became independent in June 1977.
The country is characterized by a rugged topography similar to the adjoining
desert areas of Ethiopia and Somalia. An estimated two-thirds of its indigenous
population of about 352,000 people (1980) live in the city of Djibouti, the
capital. There are a few small towns, but otherwise most Djiboutians in rural
areas are semi-nomadic pastoralists. The country's economy is service oriented
and consists of three economic sub-units: the city of Djibouti with its
port/railway terminal and airport, and Government administration; a French
military base, the country's largest single source of economic and commercial
activity; and the sparsely populated hinterland whose accessibility is difficult
and which has little contact with the first two sub-units.
4.        The country's limited known natural resources have prevented the
development of any sizeable primary activity. It is estimated that no more than
50 hectares of the total land area of Djibouti are cultivated. Cultivation
consists mostly of fruit and vegetables grown on a few irrigated plots near
towns. Practically all food is imported. Nomadic herders raise cattle, sheep
and camels in the hinterland. There is no permanent fresh water course above
ground and Djibouti is dependent on subterranean aquifers.  There is some
artisanal fishing, but there is no local tradition of fishing or sea-going.
Manufacturing industries are few and the small-scale industry sub-sector is not
extensive.
5.        In addition to the indigenous population of around 352,000, about
30,000 foreigners live in Djibouti, including large communities of Yemeni and
French origin. In addition to these temporary or permanent migrants, Djibouti
has over 50,000 refugees, from neighboring countries. Population is believed to
be growing very rapidly, at a natural rate of about 3 percent per annum. Life



-2
expectancy is 45 and, although probably higher than in neighboring Ethiopia and
Somalia, is slightly belowq the average for middle-income African countriesl/
Malnutrition is severe and the incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis is high
(believed to affect about 15 percent of the population). Health services,
provlded essentially with the support of aid agencies, are mostly curative.
There is an acute need to focus on preventive medicine.
6.        Djibouti depends heavily on expatriates for administrative and
technical skills. This situation is aggravated by the inadequacy of the
education system. The sustained inflow of migrants makes it hard to keep up
with potential demand, and provision of education to nomads is a serious
challenge. Education is in French, with Arabic as the second language taught in
schools. The adult literacy rate, below 20 percent, is low for a country that
is geared to a service economy with two-thirds of its population urban.  The
primary school enrollment rate was about 36 percent in the mid-1970s (10,000
pupils in 1976-77 and 15,000 in 1980-81). In 1980-81, 950 pupils were enrolled
in the country's only vocationial school (Lyc6e d'Enseignement Professionnel) and
3,700 pupils attended public secondary schools (3,200 nationals and 500
expatriates). A primary teacher college has recently been opened, but Djibouti
continues to rely on expatriate teachers. In 1980-81, the country had 375
primary school teachers (221 nationals, 87 French, and 67 Tunisian) and 240
secondary school teachers (27 nationals, 195 French, 17 Tunisian and one
Egyptian).   Djibouti has no university, but 150 Djiboutians had fellowships to
study abroad in 1980-81.
7.        Per capita income levels are difficult to estimate, because of
inadequate statistics and of wfde differences in income between expatriates and
DJiboutians. A preliminary figure of $480 per annum (1980) has been established
by the Bank, but other estimates exist. For example, a 1980 French mission
estimated that 8 percent of the national population earns about $4,000 yearly,
45 percent about $450, and 47 percent about $85. The $420 level is higher than
that of neighboring countries ($140 for Ethiopia), but it is not evident that
the standard of living in Djibouti is substantially different, especially in the
hinterland where sources of income are limited and poverty extreme. Even though
the minimum wage in the formal sector is high for the region ($900 per year),
unemployment is severe, so that few people benefit from the minimum wage. The
extremely poor living conditions in the hinterland were aggravated by drought in
1978-80, and the limited resources have been further strained by the refugees
whose presence has exacerbated the demand for water. Prices for basic goods are
very high, and standards of living in most of Djibouti very low.
8.        Djibouti's economy Is based on service activities related to the
military base, the port, and railway to Ethiopia, and the international,
commercial and financial establish.ments operating in the capital. Thus its
forturnes depend greatly on the demand for these services.  In the recent past,
demand for port services by Ethiopia has declined with the opening of the
Et-hiopian port of Assab. Most of the railway is in Ethiopia but contributes
some much needed revenue for Djibouti and employment for Djiboutiarns. In 1979,
the tertiary sector dominated in providing 77 percent of GDP. In contrast,
agriculture, livestock, fisheries and industry together accounted for only 15
1/ Demographic data are estimates and their reliability remains to be
established. The UN Fund for Population Activities is in the early stages
of taking a population census, with UNDP financing.



percent of GDP. The military base's direct and indirect purchases of goods and
services accounted for about a quarter of GDP.
9.        From 1970 to 1976 real GDP increased at an annual average rate of
about 6 percent, half the growth coming from construction of roads, schools and
other public buildings. The economy has fluctuated since 1976 for four main
reasons: (a) the closing of the railway line from March 1977 to June 1978
induced a reduction in service activities; (b) public capital expenditures
slowed down after 1977; (c) a reduction in the number of French military
personnel; and (d) private investment failed to come forward in part because of
instability in the Horn of Africa, and in part because of uncertainties
associated with the prospects of independence, even though transition to
independence was peaceful. Capital formation was equivalent to about 18 percent
of GDP in 1979 and 1980, slightly below the 20 percent average of the early
1970's but considerably above the 8 percent of GDP of 1976-78.
10.       Djibouti appears in recent years to have maintained surpluses on its
balance of payments, so that its foreign assets were equivalent to SDR120
million in December 1981, or nearly nine months of imports. This situation,
however, is highly precarious: (i) this build-up accompanied low investment
rates in the 1976-79 period, which may be increased in the near future; (ii)
current and capital grants from friendly countries followed the first years of
independence but has been declining recently ; and (iii) there are virtually no
domestic merchandise exports, and net earnings of the port, railway and airport
together account for less than $6 million. The heavily negative balance of
trade (SDR78 million in 1981) has for many years been compensated in part by a
positive balance on services (SDR20 million in 1981) in which a large portion
corresponds to spending on services by non-residents, including personnel of the
military base. On the other hand, the import figure is inflated by goods used,
especially by the hotel and restaurant trade, in generating these service sector
earnings.
11.       Until the end of 1981, according to IMF data, the Government
maintained a budgetary surplus due to relatively large external assistance, to
conservative management of its ordinary budget, and to the low level of
development expenditure which it had been able to undertake. Government current
and capital expenditure together amounted to about 25 percent of GDP in 1981.
Most capital expenditure of the public sector is financed from extra-budgetary
sources, so that the 20 percent of Government spending devoted to capital
expenditure understates the actual level of public sector investment which in
1978 accounted for about 60 percent of gross capital formation. The increased
need for financial resources has been met by raising tax rates and mobilizing
more external assistance. Ordinary government revenue receipts reached 23
percent of GDP in 1981 against 20 percent in 1978. In 1980, two-thirds of
revenue came from taxes on goods and services. Income tax, first introduced in
1975 and levied on salaries, professional earnings and profits of enterprises
provides about 16 percent of recurrent revenue.
12.       Since Independence, France has remained the major source of aid
through technical assistance (550 technical and advisory staff), FAC grants and
budgetary aid. Direct budgetary aid in the form of grants amounted to about $8
million in 1978 and $7 million in 1979. The French civilian aid program has



-4-
been mostly in the form of technical assistance. Aid is geared towards health,
education, telecommunicatons and pilot irrigation schemes. Presently, budgetary
aid is through income taxes paid by French troops and technical assistance
personnel, through indirect consumption taxes levied on imported goods purchased
by households paid by France, and through indirect financing of Djibouti's armed
forces by France.
13.       Djibouti is a newly independent country and is therefore just starting
to develop and diversify its aid relationships. Initial results are fairly
encouraging. Saudi Arabia is the second largest aid donor for Djibouti. In
1978, it gave a $60 million loan for specific sectors and to compensate for oil
price increases, with disbursement to occur as viable projects were
implemented. Other sources of Arab assistance include the Arab Fund, the Arab
League, which provides teachers, Abu Dhabi, Oman, Iraq, Bahrain, Morocco and
Libya. USAID has an annual aid program of $5 million. It has carried out
agricultural studies and is implementing technical education and small-scale
fisheries projects. West Germany had a program for 1979-81 of about $5 million,
including in particular financing a water resources inventory. KfW has joined
the Kuwait Fund in financing the container terminal in the port. UNDP's first
efforts were directed toward geothermal development. The 1982-86 UNDP program
is for about $5.0 million, mostly for planning, social infrastructure, and
energy. ADF will finance sewerage in Djibouti city and assist in maintenance
and repairs of the port. The EEC is financing a master plan for development of
the city, urgent rehabilitation needs of the railway, and a small pilot
agriculture project; it has indicated readiness to finance projects in these
sectors.
14.       Djibouti has thus far maintained a prudent policy about borrowing.
Most assistance has been in the form of grants and, as Djibouti has practically
no external debt, the debt service will probably remain low in the near future.
Djibouti has deposits with commercial banks in Djibouti and the French American
Banking Corporation in New York, and the interest earned on these funds has been
a useful source of budget revenue. Although needs for concessionary finance
stil remain important, the country must in priority take measures to establish
greater absorptive capacity in terms of appropriate projects and satisfactory
implementation capability. The Government recognizes this need, and it seeks
assistance to develop its economic management cpabilities, and its project
preparation, evaluation and implementation capabilities in various sectors.
15.       The Government has prepared the outline of a three-year development
plan, but little other preliminary work has been done to date. Work on the plan
should provide Government with the opportunity to define specific long-term
goals (desired level of per-capita income, growth rates, sectoral composition of
the economy), to identify a series of graduated intermediate objectives, and to
design yearly investment programs capable of reaching these intermediate
objectives by making maximum use of domestic resources and foreign assistance.
In designing its development strategy, Government is likely to maintain the type
of liberal economy necessary for an international trading and financial center.
16.       The administrative machinery and the skilled personnel necessary to
design and implement an appropriate development strategy are, however, lacking.
Technical assistance and training are necessary to help the Government outline
an overall strategy and to strengthen various government agencies responsible
for its implementation. Such a strategy would have to balance development
between modern and traditional sectors, to build on available natural resources



- 5 -
(geothermal energy and mineral deposits if they prove suitable for
exploitation), to strengthen infrastructure (including the railway and the
port), and to develop industrial activities capable of generating employment and
foreign exchange. Emphasis shou'Ld also be placed on low-cost housing and on
basic needs, especially of the poor population living in shanty-towns around the
capital and in the hinterland. Bank Group operations are planned to help
Djibouti to design and implement such a development strategy and to complement
the assistance of other donors.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
17.       Djibouti joined the Bank and the Association on October 2, 1980.  In
preparation, the first economic mission visited the country in March 1979; its
report (referred to in paragraph 2 above) was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 3, 1980. Our initial strategy aims at strengthening the
country's economic management and development institutions, promoting
infrastructure development, and improving provisions to meet the basic needs of
the poorest parts of the population. Where possible, it would also allow for
productive projects to generate income and to increase export earnings.
18.       The proposed highway maintenance project would be the second Bank
Group operation in the country, after the $3.0 million credit for a technical
assistance project, approved by the Board on April 20, 1982. The technical
assistance project, cofinanced with a parallel contribution of $1.46 million
from UNDP, is designed to improve the Government's capabilities to formulate an
appropriate development strategy, to coordinate development efforts and to
engage in planning, project preparation and monitoring. In 1981 the Bank acted
as Executing Agency for the UNDP-financed road maintenance study, in preparation
for the Highway project.
19.       In August 1981, IDA advanced $0.5 million from the Bank's Project
Preparation Facility for preparation of an urban development project, which
would include components for institution building, infrastructure development
and maintenance, employment and income generation, and the provision of shelter
and basic urban services to the poorer segments of the population. Government
has asked for Bank assistance in the education sector, while the Bank is
prepared, should need arise, to consider assistance to the port and railways to
supplement assistance at present provided by other agencies.   The European
Economic Community is financing a study of the longer-term development
requirements of the Djibouti-Addis railway, which is likely to involve heavy
investment in years to come.
20.       In order to assist the Government in coordinating assistance offered
and in response to a resolution of the UN General Assembly, the UNDP helped to
organize a "Round Table" Donors' Meeting in February 1981. The Bank
participated in that Meeting, and will also assist in preparation for the
Donors' Conference which the Government wishes to hold in 1983. During the
"Round Table" several project proposals and ideas were put forward by
Government, but further work was needed before financing could be sought for
them. It is expected that the Planning Assistance team provided under the
Technical Assistance project will make an important contribution to the project



-6-
studies needed, and the Study Fund under the same project is being used to
finance consultancy work in connection with the conference.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
21.       The transport system of Djibouti comprises about 2,800 km of roads and
tracks (of which only about 300 km are paved), 110 km of railway, a port, and an
international airport and several airstrips. There are no navigable waterways.
The most important part of the system is centered around Djibouti City with its
international airport, port and railway terminal. Apart from the paved road
between Djibouti City and the Ethiopian border (R.N.1), which links a number of
the more important towns, connections to the rest of the country, mostly on some
2,500 km of ill-defined earth tracks, are very poor. A single ferry boat
provides the only reliable surface link between Djibouti City and Tadjourah, the
most important town in the northern part of the country.
Railway
22.          The Ethiopia-Djibouti railway, completed in 1917, links the port of
Djibouti and Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. Some 95 per cent of the
railway's traffic consists of goods to and from Ethiopia. Even though
Djibouti's share of the traffic is small, a treaty ratified in 1981 gives
Djibouti equal weight in the railway's management, and an equal share of
profits, but only makes it responsible for 10 per cent of deficits. Traffic on
the system declined from 370,000 tons in 1975 to about 170,000 tons in 1981
partly due to a shift in Ethiopian traffic from the port of Djibouti to the
Ethiopian port of Assab. Because of the low traffic the railway is losing money
(over $800,000 in 1980).
23.       The European Development Fund (EDF), following a study of the
railway's short-term needs, is providing about $13 million for the purchase of
two diesel locomotives, maintenance equipment, spare parts and other urgent
needs. Longer-term needs may include some track renewal and additional
purchases of rolling stock. However, the timing and justification for this will
depend on the future prospects of Ethiopian traffic on the line, which is
difficult to predict given that country's current preference for the Addis-Assab
road transport corridor.
Port
24.       The port of Djibouti is the terminal of the Ethiopia-Djibouti
railway. It served as an important bunkering port in the past, but this
function is now unimportant.  After the French military base the port is the
next major generator of economic activity in the country. It is relatively
well-equipped with deepwater berths, and adequate warehousing space,
cargo-handling and maintenance facilities. Total traffic declined from 640,891
tons in 1976 to 370,063 tons in 1979, due to an 80 per cent reduction in
Ethiopian traffic when the railway suspended operations. The port incurred a
deficit of DF 142 million in 1980 or about 15 per cent of total receipts. To
find ways of attracting traffic and increasing port utilization, a feasibility



-7-
study of a container terminal was recently completed by consultants with French
finance. The study concluded that a container facility, at an estimated cost of
$14 million, would increase transshipment in the port and help to make it
financially viable. Although the consultants' traffic projections in the study
appear optimistic, especially given competition from other ports in the region,
the first two of three construction phases are being financed by Kuwait and
Germany with works scheduled to begin in 1982. The third phase is planned to be
carried out toward the end of the 1980s.
Air Transport
25.          Djibouti's international airport is an autonomous public enterprise
which reports to the Ministry of Trade, Transport and Tourism. It has a 3,140
meter runway and can handle fully loaded B-747s. Service is provided by Air
Djibouti, the national carrier, and six foreign airlines. There are several
other airstrips, but only Tadjourah and Obock have scheduled service, provided
by Air Djibouti. The airport is in need of rehabilitation, for which the
Government is seeking finance from bilateral donors.
26.          Air passenger traffic grew by about 3 per cent p.a. between 1975
and 1980, when it reached 240,000. About half of these were in transit. During
1977-1979, Uganda transshipped most of its coffee through Djibouti causing a
surge in freight traffic at the airport, but since these shipments have stopped,
freight traffic has dropped by 76 per cent to its current level of about 7,800
tons annually. Because of the excess capacity, the airport is not able to
operate profitably and must be subsidized indirectly by the French government.
It is not expected that this situation will change in the near future.
27.       Air Djibouti, established in 1980, is 92 per cent owned by the
Government and 8 per cent by Air France. Its fleet includes two Twin-Otters
which are used on domestic and regional services, and a recently purchased B-727
which operates on its regional network as well as providing weekly flights to
Europe. To protect Air Djibouti, other airlines, in particular Air France, have
had to cut back the number of flights serving Djibouti. In spite of this, Air
Djibouti required a subsidy of about $3.0 million in 1980.
Road Network and Administration
28.          The road network comprises about 2,800 km, of which 300 km are
paved and 2,500 km are earth roads and tracks. The major part of the paved
network is the 217 km road from Djibouti City to the Ethiopian border which
links a number of towns; the remaining 83 km are mostly streets in Djibouti
City. The unpaved network is made up of ill-defined earth roads and tracks,
most of which are in poor condition and passable only by four-wheel drive
vehicles. The Government has recently issued a decree classifying the network
and identifying a National Road Network of about 1,100 km of priority roads to
be targeted for improvement and maintenance. The National Network includes the
300 km of paved roads and streets and about 800 km of earth roads and tracks.
There are about 7,000 vehicles in Djibouti of which about three quarters are
small and medium sized cars. Traffic volume is low, with roads around Djibouti
City having the highest traffic volumes, ranging up to 400 vehicles per day.
29.       The Public Works Department (PWD) of the Ministry of Public Works,
Urban Affairs and Housing (MPW) is in charge of both the construction and



-8 -
the maintenance of rural and urban raain roads. However, its responsibilities
until 1982 overlapped with those of the Ministry of Interior (MI) and with the
local authorities.  Municipalities have up to now been in charge of the
maintenance of other urban roads, which are designed and built under the
responsibility of PWD; MI, on the other hand, is in charge of the maintenance of
secondary roads outside the city. As the local authorities and MI lack
expertise and equipment to carry out: these tasks, PWD has regularly been called
upon to provide these services on an emergency basis. The Government intends to
streamline road administration by reorganizing PWD, and has issued decrees
putting it in charge of improvement and maintenance of roads in the City of
Djibouti as from January 1, 1983, and the remainder of the National Road Network
as of January 1, 1984. This reorganization involves the transfer of personnel,
including about 500 laborers from MI to MPW. The issue of a decree satisfactory
to the Association providing for the organization of the MPW is a condition of
effectiveness (draft Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
30.       PWD is administered largely by expatriates provided by FAC, many of
whom are themselves young trainees. About 40 per cent of the Djiboutian staff
are young, including a few with high school or college education; of the
remaining 60 per cent, who are mostly illiterate, most are approaching the
retirement age of 55. PWD thus has the opportunity in the next few years to
improve the average level of education of its staff by appropriate recruitment
policies. The training of newly recruited personnel would be one of the
priorities of the proposed project.
Construction
31.          PWD carries out some spot improvements, limited resurfacing works
and routine maintenance operations by force account, but major construction of
roads and larger buildings is carried out principally by foreign contractors.
The domestic construction industry consists of small- to medium-sized firms
primarily engaged in the housing subsector or as subcontractors to foreign
contractors. To promote the development of this industry, domestic contractors
would be encouraged to participate as subcontractors for the construction of
workshops under the proposed project. Engineering studies and construction
supervision are at present carried out exclusively by foreign consultants. The
proposed project will help to develop in PWD a capacity to identify projects and
to manage consultants more effectively in supervising their implementation. FAC
is already supporting this effort by providing technical assistance, training
and equipment for the Government's Soils Laboratory.
Road Transport, Industry and Regulation
32.       Passenger transport service is provided by owner-operated small
vehicles or mini-buses for trips outside the city. Freight is also handled by
owner-operators using small trucks: few operators have more than one truck.
About 80 per cent of the trips made are close to Djibouti City. While passenger
fares are set and revised from time to time by the Government, freight tariffs
are free of control and are determined by supply and demand. Entry into the
road transport industry is subject to license at a nominal fee, and no
restrictions are imposed as to route and type of freight to be carried. There
are as yet no laws governing axle load limits as the largest trucks in use do
not exceed 6 ton capacity.



-9-
Fuel Prices
33.       Premium and regular gasoline were in November 1981 sold at a
controlled retail price equivalent to $.71 and $.63 per litre respectively,
including tax of $.20. Diesel fuel, however, retailed at a price equivalent
to only $.29 per litre, including $.10 tax. Since at the time the CIF price of
all three was approximately   $.28 per litre, it is apparent that users of
diesel fuel were heavily subsidized, presumably mainly by gasoline purchasers.
The great discrepancy between prices of gasoline and diesel is intended by
Government to subsidize public and goods transport. Despite a recently
introduced annual tax on diesel vehicles, the imbalance has led to substantial
imports of diesel cars and trucks. The generally higher price of diesel
vehicles makes this a cost to the balance of payments. The issue was discussed
during negotiations, and as part of our continuing sector dialogue we will
attempt to convince the Government that subsidizing diesel fuel is an
inefficient means of redistributing income.
Transport Planning and Financing
34.       Government has not yet prepared an overall economic plan.  The Bank
Group's first credit to Djibouti was for technical assistance to strengthen the
Planning Directorate in the Presidency and the National Directorate of
Statistics, in order to provide Government with the capability to prepare such a
plan and to define a development strategy. Given the relatively uncomplicated
state of the transport sector, the lack of an effective transport planning
capability in MTTT or MPW is not a handicap, especially since Government intends
to develop a transport planning and coordination capability in the Planning
Directorate. This would make the best use of scarce qualified staff.
35.       The Government has ul) to now covered the costs of the relatively small
road construction and maintenance works performed through road-user charges.
Total expenditures on roads over the past three years have averaged $2.7 million
p.a. or about 2 per cent of total Government expenditures, most of which are
recurrent expenditure, and has stated its intention of maintaining recurrent
expenditures at no less than the present level in real terms. Users contributed
about $5.5 million in road-user charges in 1981 which is more than adequate to
meet road maintenance requirements including the incremental work envisaged
under the project. The Government has received substantial assistance from
France in the highway subsector in the form of technical assistance personnel to
the Ministry of Public Works for highway administration. The Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development and the Saudi Fund have indicated interest in
cofinancing future projects in the transport sector.
Sector Development Policy
36.       At independence, Djibouti inherited a relatively efficient port and
railway system and an excellent airport. Part of the Government's policy is to
make Djibouti a regional transshipment point by taking advantage of its
geographic location and its relatively good transport facilities; this policy is
sound. However, as the country's population was concentrated in the capital
city, roads to the hinterland had been neglected, leaving parts of the country
virtually cut off from its economic nucleus. The Government's policy for road
development has been to improve connections in order to supply outlying areas
and to unify the country. So far these improvements have been modest, in line



- 10 -
with the low traffic levels. More recently several donors have been approached
to help finance upgrading of selected roads which have been designated by the
Government as high priority. Not all of these roads can be justified on
economic grounds, especially since the extremely rugged terrain and the
inaccessibility to much of the country make construction costs very high. For
example, among the projects under consideration for financing is the
construction of the 125 km road linking Djibouti City to Tadjourah. While the
economic feasibility of the project, expected to cost over $75.0 million at its
current design standards, is uncertain, the Government intends to proceed with
it since it would be the only road link to the economically and physically
isolated northern half of the country. In the course of sector dialogue, the
Bank will try to ensure that the proposed road meets economically and
technically sound design standards. Discussions on the Government's highway
sector policies and investment plans were held during negotiations, and will be
continued as part of the Association's normal dialogue with the Government
during project implementation; Government will also keep the Bank informed about
policies affecting other parts of the transport sector (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.03).
PART IV -- THE PROJECT
37.       Government approached the Association for assistance in highway
maintenance during a Programs mission in June 1980. The project was appraised
by an IDA mission in November 1981, following pre-investment studies carried
out by French consultants financed by the UNDP with the Association as executing
agency. A report entitled "Djibouti - Highway Maintenance Project - Staff
Appraisal Report", (No. 3867-DI) dated September 24, 1982 is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held :in Washington, D.C. in June 1982. The
Djiboutian delegation was led by H.E. Mr. Bourhan Ali Warki, Minister of Public
Works, Urban Affairs and Housing, and included representatives of the Ministries
of Finance, and of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, as well as the Planning
Directorate. A Credit and Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this
report. A supplementary project data sheet is provided in Annex III. A map of
Djibouti is attached.
Objectives
38.       The proposed project, the Association's first involvement in
Djibouti's transport sector, is aimed at assisting the Government in
strengthening its road organization to carry out effective, economic and
efficient road improvement and maintenance operations, thereby (i) providing
easier and more reliable access to the hinterland and (ii) reducing transport
costs. The project is also aimed at training local staff and laying the
foundation for planning and preparing future road projects.
Description
39.       The proposed project includes the following:
(a) a three-year road improvement and maintenance program including
resurfacing of about 25 km of paved roads, routine maintenance of



- 11 -
the 300 km of paved roads and streets, and spot improvements and
maintenance with hand tools on about 800 km of priority earth
roads and tracks;
(b) improvement of equipment maintenance facilities, including
construction of workshops in Djibouti City and service stations
in Tadjourah and Dikhil; and
(c)  technical assistance comprising consulting services to strengthen
the road organization, to train personnel and to prepare
preinvestment studies to identify the improvement needs and
priorities of the road network, and fellowships for the training
of road maintenance personnel.
(a) Road Improvement and Maintenance Program
40.       PWD's routine maintenance brigade must work with obsolete equipment to
maintain the 300 km network of paved roads and streets; its resurfacing brigade
is relatively well-equipped, but lacks experience in the field; spot improve-
ments and emergency maintenance on the earth roads and tracks are carried out by
a mobile brigade which lacks experienced personnel. PWD also runs an aggregate
crushing plant and asphalt emulsion plant which supply the brigade with mate-
rials. Teams of laborers of the MIl, nominally in charge of routine maintenance
of earth roads and tracks, have been ineffective. The proposed project would
initiate a three-year program to provide appropriate road maintenance operations
on the National Road Network of about 1,100 km of priority roads, including the
300 km of paved roads and streets and about 800 km of earth roads and tracks.
The program would specifically include (i) patching and resealing of the 300 km
of paved roads; (ii) resurfacing of a 25-km section of the Djibouti-Ethiopia
border road (R.N.1), where it crosses the sand desert of Grand Bara; and (iii)
spot improvements and routine maintenance on the 800 km of earth roads and
tracks. The project will provide the equipment, spare parts, tools, materials
and supplies for these works.
(b) Workshops
41.       PWD's equipment is poorly maintained due partly to its small,
ill-equipped facilities: the small workshop in Djibouti City is the only
equipment maintenance facility in the country. Built before independence to
handle light vehicles, it is located in a crowded site, and lacks space,
necessary equipment and tools.  In addition to the Djibouti workshop, a small
service station was recently constructed in Tadjourah to handle minor repairs of
trucks and light vehicles. The proposed project would provide for (i) building
*      and equipping a new workshop in Djibouti City including sites and services; (ii)
expanding the service station in Tadjourah to enable it to handle road
equipment; and (iii) constructing and equipping new maintenance facilities in
Dikhil. The Government will acquire the necessary land for these facilities by
July 1, 1983 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
(c) Consulting Services and Fellowships
42.       While PWD benefits from French technical assistance, some of the staff
provided lack practical field experience. The proposed project would therefore
provide experts to carry out specific and urgent tasks for relatively short



- 12 -
periods. These tasks would include: initiating proper road maintenance
operations, carrying out resurfacing works, and running the workshops, service
stations and sheds. The team of experts provided by the project would include
(i) a road engineer (12 man-months) to assist in spot improvements and road
maintenance; (ii) a mechanical engineer with expertise in procurement and
warehousing (36 man-months); and (iii) a road engineer with management
accounting experience (36 man-months). He would be expected to introduce proper
accounting procedures in the operations of the workshops and road works, and to
establish unit costs of these operations. A workshop manager, provided by FAC,
is already in the field; Government would engage a master mechanic expected to
be provided on a parallel basis by F?AC, who will arrive in Djibouti not later
than July 1, 1983 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
43.        Consulting services would be provided to prepare engineering studies
for the improvement of about 250 km of tracks to improved earth road standards.
The improvement works are expected t:o be financed outside the project, possibly
by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (which has indicated to the
Government that it may be willing to finance the works starting in 1984). The
project also provides for consulting services for preinvestment studies for the
rehabilitation of the first 30 km section of R.N.1 from Djibouti City, which
connects most of the towns in the southern part of the country. This road
section, which carries the heaviest traffic in Djibouti, was built 30 years ago
and maintenance operations can no longer effectively arrest the accelerating
deterioration of the pavement. Consultant services would also be provided to
assist the Government in preparing detailed engineering and bidding documents
and supervision of works for the construction of workshops.
44.       Counterparts, including engineers, workshop mechanics, road
technicians, storekeepers and accountants will be attached to all consultants
and technical experts provided under the project. The experts will be required
by their terms of reference to provide their counterparts with on-the-job
training.  The project would also provide fellowships for eight instructors who
will train equipment operators and road technicians.
45.       Consultants with French financing have assessed the country's
technical training needs, and how to improve its training facilities to meet
these needs.  The Government has sent this report to IDA, and will exchange
views with the Association on its proposals based thereon for training Public
Works personnel (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). Fellowships
would be awarded to eight suitable PWD employees. Government would furnish to
the Association for approval a detailed program for training to be financed
under the project including the names and qualifications of the candidates, the
type and costs of training the proposed training institutions and an indication
of assignments to be given to the trainees upon their return to Djibouti (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).
Cost Estimates and Financing
46.       Total project costs, net ofE taxes and duties, are estimated at $8.0
million equivalent of which about $1.6 million equivalent or 20 percent are
local costs and about $6.4 million equivalent or 80 percent are foreign costs.
The Government will exempt the project from taxes and duties estimated at $2.4
million. The costs and financing plan are summarized in the Credit and Project
Summary. Cost estimates for equipment, tools, spare parts, materials and



- 13 -
supplies are based on recent bid prices and quotations in Djibouti. The costs
of civil works are in line with the costs of recent and ongoing similar works in
the country. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to workshop
construction; price contingencies of 8.5 percent in 1982 and 7.5 percent per
annum thereafter have been applied. The man-month costs of technical assistance
and consulting services are estimated at $9,200 as follows: $6,000 for salaries
and overhead such as home office expenses and $3,200 for reimbursable expenses
such as subsistence, housing, travel and telecommunications. The costs of
fellowships are estimated at $l0,000 per student per year including tuition and
fees, hou-ing, travel and subsistence.
Financing Plan
47.       IDA would finance about 80 percent of the total project costs, net of
taxes and duties, or $6.4 million equivalent, which represents the total foreign
costs. Government's contribution of $1.6 million equivalent would include
finance for salaries ($0.6 million) of incremental local personnel directly
involved in the improvement works; part of civil works ($0.9 million); and the
cost of aggregates ($0.1 million). The Government would also be responsible for
the acquisition of land for the construction of workshops and would continue to
contribute about $1.0 million for salaries of personnel involved in the routine
maintenance of the targeted road network. Project accounts will be audited by
an auditor acceptable to IDA.
Project Implementation and Procurement
48.       The Ministry of Public Works, through its Public Works Department and
with the assistance of consultants, would be responsible for implementing the
project. The project would be implemented over about three years starting the
first quarter of calendar year 1983. Road maintenance equipment, materials and
supplies would be delivered by June 1984. Spot improvement and maintenance
operations would be carried out on the national road network for three years
starting April 1983. The preparation of bidding documents, procurement
procedures and construction of workshops would take about 21 months to complete,
starting in April 1983. The preinvestment studies should start in April 1983
and take about 15 months to complete including a three-month review period by
the Government and IDA.
49.       The spot improvements and routine maintenance operations on the
National Road Network and resurfacing works would be carried out by force
account; PWD brigades would be provided with necessary additional equipment and
experienced personnel to carry out these tasks. The construction of workshops
would be executed by contractors selected through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. To provide domestic
contractors an opportunity to participate, foreign contractors would be
encouraged to make maximum possible use of domestic contractors including
subcontracting work and supplying construction materials. Equipment, spare
parts, materials and supplies would also be procured on the basis of contracts
following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. All items would be bulked to the extent possible to make them
attractive to international manufacturers and dealers. Aggregates would be
acquired from PWD's own crushing plant. Consulting services would be provided
by consulting firms on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.



- 14 -
50.       Government's procurement procedures date to pre-independence and are
written in such a way that they allow complete discretion to Government in
making awards: the lowest evaluated t:ender need not be selected and the whole
tender evaluation procedure as well as bid opening is carried out secretly.
These bidding procedures and their deviation from those acceptable to the Bank
Group were discussed with the Government, which indicated that it would be
writing a new procurement code, but that for Bank-financed projects it would
comply with ICB. Because of the Government's lack of familiarity with the
Association's ICB procedures and its implications as a departure from its
current procedures, procurement procedures will be carefully monitored during
project implementation.
Disbursements
51.       The IDA credit would be disbursed against 70 percent of total
expenditures for the construction of workshops, 100 percent of expenditures for
technical assistance services; and 1()0 percent of foreign exchange costs of
equipment, spare parts, tools, materials and supplies if directly imported, or
90 percent of the cost of these items if locally purchased. All disbursements
would be fully documented. Disbursements are expected to begin in the first
half of 1983; the completion date is June 30, 1986 and the closing date December
31, 1986.
Benefits and Justification
52.       The proposed project would help to improve maintenance operations on
the whole paved network and contribute to developing an organization capable of
undertaking basic minimum maintenance! on about 800 km of earth roads and tracks
on which, up to now, no effective maintenance has been carried out. The project
would also facilitate transport within the country for goods and passengers and
reduce transport costs. Those people living in areas only accessible by track
would benefit from improved access tc facilities and better distribution of food
and supplies. Because of the keen competition in the transport industry, any
savings in vehicle operating costs can be expected to be passed on to transport
users.
53.       The resurfacing of a 25 km section of R.N.1 where it crosses the Grand
Bara will arrest the rapid deterioration of this section thus protecting an
investment already made. While the present traffic level is low, about 60
vehicles per day, this section would revert to gravel standard in three years
and would have to be reconstructed in 5 years if the proposed works were not
undertaken. Additional benefits would be reduction in vehicle operating costs,
which would otherwise increase due to the rapidly deteriorating road situation.
Economic evaluation shows that the resurfacing component would be well justified
with an ERR of 58 percent based on an. economic life of 5 years.
54.       The maintenance program consists of routine maintenance on about 300
km of paved roads and streets and 800 km of tracks and earth roads. The works
would concentrate on reducing the amount of potholing and edge ravelling on
paved roads, repairing drainage works, and minor road works on the earth and
gravel roads. This project component would yield average economic returns in
excess of 100 percent for both paved and earth roads.



- 15 -
Risks
55.       There are no major technical risks involved in the proposed project.
However, as this is the first IDA operation in Djibouti, other than the
technical assistance project, there! may be delays in implementation linked with
procurement of equipment, materials and supplies, recruitment of necessary
qualified staff, construction of the workshops, or the Government's reluctance
to provide local financing. Such delays could slow down the maintenance effort
with consequent reductions in benefits. To reduce these risks, the project
includes technical assistance responsible for specific project components.
Moreover, project preparation has been satisfactory, and the implementation
schedule adopted seems realistic. Frequent supervision by IDA staff during the
initial stages of the project will be undertaken.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Djibouti and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms to the usual pattern
of agreements on highway projects. Special conditions are listed in Section III
of Annex III of this report.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington DC
November 9, 1982



- 16 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
DJIBOUTI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                 Page  1 of  5
DJIBOUTI                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              22.0                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        2.4              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      ..       390.0     480.0                 1053.2                   1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      273.7        311.1     281.7                  610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    81.0         160.0     352.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 49.6          62.0      73.7                   28.3                     47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         0.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        ..                     .                        .
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KR.                         3.7          7.3      14.8                   54.7                     35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      33.1         65.3     132.7                  129.9                    420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            ..           ..         ..                  46.0                     44.3
15-64 YRS.                            ..           ..         ..                  51.1                     52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     ..           ..         ..                   2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7          6.8        7.9/c                 2.8                      2.8
URBAN                                ..          9.0       9.6                    5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..          ..         ..                  47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..          ..         ..                  15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..           ..         ..                   3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             ..           ..         ..                  90.7                    100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      ..           ..         ..                 93.9                     108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              ..          ..         ..                  54.8                     71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..           ..         ..                  17.0                     18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      23.0         16.0      10.0                   23.9                     15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        ..          ..      45.0/d                 51.0                     56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            69.1         32.6      30.0/e               118.5                     104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                   ..                      59.1
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   ..                      83.1
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                    ..                     39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..           ..    4296.9/f             14185.2                    4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..          ..     514.67d              2213.2                    1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             124.6        169.9     261.9/f              1036.4                     641.7
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                430.8                     538.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..               3678.6                    2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..       13.7/f                  ..                     25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       7.0
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                   ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                   ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..



- 17-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
DJIBOUTI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DJIBOUTI                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGTESD AVjAGES
- MOST RECENT tSTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA  NORTb AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    ..          .8 ..                            83.3                     88.7
MALE                    ..           ..        ..                    96.1                    104.5
FEMALE                  ..           ..        ..                    80.4                     72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    ..          ..         ..                    15.3                     39.7
MALE                    ..           ..        ..                    19.4                     49.3
FEMALE                  ..           ..        ..                    11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  37.9          44.0       16.3                     4.7                     10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.1         35.7       39.4                    38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                          12.9         12.3      13.5L&                   23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ,,          ,,       14.0                    35.6                     43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         48.7      42.9/f                   31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        43.8      49.2                     71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          6.3      11.4                     17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          ..         ..                    19.1                     31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        2.3/g                   0.6                      1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)
FEKALE (PERCENT)                      ..          ..         ..                    36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 ..          ..         ..                    56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    ..          ..         ..                    17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..         ..                    37.0                     26.0
MALE                                   ..           ..         ..                    46.9                     46.2
FEMALE                                 ..           ..         ..                    27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..           ..        ..                     1.3                      1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                   507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                   200.6                    178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                   203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                      ..                     22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                      ..                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availabllity of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic   This high rate reflects steady immigration from neighboring countries; /d 1976; /e UNICEF data; /f 1977;
1975.
May, 1982



-18 -                                                                                  ANNEX I
OF SOCIAL  MCATOU                                            ~Page  3   f  5
*N.C..    1100-9k cm0 laSs  t  drive Sr.. "urgeS   me"a1Lly juIget Ie mat authoritative aid I511061., It Mouild 0150 h. 1C0.4 IhiS tnoy MY 01 bi Lnte:-
moatta..I Ly CeuporbL. Secause of Ch. LisCk of ildar4Lzed d4.410111.l .04 co5Sip00 00  by diffrerael .aantgL".i 4sO.LLGSl* the data.  TM0 date Cr.  aut5
Chains5, a.afaL to describe aldWs of m1w1RUde, 1d410.4. Criads, sed chrigrSe..611            00)t.t saio  410t Tomes. bole..  c005101is.
the  Wr msnriec .p9f99  ie (1) 1k' sue 1016ery group of ch. subect... 00r0  am4  (0) a amo.ry  gronp .0gb .1.5.960 bwl a            ve, ins Iscoum  than0 cbS .OOCiry 1150
of Ch. Cobbj..  golgry (*acipt for  '%Loh lo5050.   01. blpornin." Slowp to:. lm"111  lactose 9:th AtrIca 054 11441. SasS"  is chtow   b..4.m 01 .1:94.
eJ.rl  o f the unnIt Isa .   gmg bh. date for t10t 14ado:a,  StIn.  hbe  *Cow:..  of  -%,or Issues04  tU16.1041001t0'  depoIi on thes SOCLliblIly .f 8ate
a L.I non aLlots. MCI110*00.0  he anirgtted 10  r0015anrat- .5 01I.              tIia   t. 40500.1... .-i50. an o*iy uafj L. 1,   paOln.S t00 0010  of
050104.050  01 4 11.0  amongze lItowaS1   sa i ee..  5r1w,.
101h.Tboai4 sq4)yaualn  c   apIo                                                                                                  Rh-lnI  urban  ai   url-Poplata   (oc
T."10  - 710:1 -.Ifa.e area -co.s10a   Lead area ad  .10.8d ..1-sr; 1979 dat.,ubn n.ual   m44b   01  r                                          IIacln  no.90: 30 00*011.1 boO
Asfl000)91- a1 BLlets of aSrIcolt ...I  roo, dead toWono-ily cr yflatescLy                      ... Liable L. pi  1. 00  prin.ts S.. r.1 and  p.1.lad h.   d bap             I.*1:-
fo  coy,  asur... -0560  004 k0.h114. s-ord     or tn 1I. Xa1n    979 data.              h  i.I-inIo  reare..  SospLCi. al      .   tbi.hes.lt:  p.-Snfly .101!.d
by 01 Lsa ... t-Physicist.  ZostkbLiWas.sl  p-t4ldln  yPCllplly I.lO
fOSP P1  CAPITA (US5) 11    ..PW011   -atat. ... a .....rre         1- sno t .r ..... ca-           di1.1,sr  ace 041 lOnudid.  L .. I hoeptlo..  h0..-5. Lotlods4,  bolI,b
OuloliO  by *0= 01005:5105.01.'1hc4 .. World Cask  Wa1s (1974-80 beatis); 1990.                   .   i1a   .1:   0  parmesesely  -lafod by 0f hraIn Ia  (bal II.:
1970, Ie 90  ..                                                                                    dal  s1lilwe,  l.s,..1000 ff.:    tit-pllnat   saa-
dCti.. iad P-enid. a ILal-ai1d rt . o   eia   01  s .  For.01
rIYC009 1109yn  CMIT-Acta   oaotlnof -o-rtl  100 .-                  coal                lCA-1 P-ryoses u-b.. h.aylrul  110,040 hdaWis Priip.I/Saansl hospital.,
and llalt.   yn_ola. n-lu-a  gus aud  .y          . o .. I.-no  004 g isrO   also-               andrur    Co.yltlo, local -r run           piostIsl  004 tdLcal s.d.aIsonlty
Lr.ly   kIt llcr.- of .o.l oquioa1... p.r -pilto; 1960. 109X;. aod 1079                     corS. py.llti  h-epiCIal. a              - tocldad only unter tull.
data.                                                                                          udeiloooo   aor  Boalad 0  - Total ... sor  f0 adi...ot  10  rdnc,r.
M ro h-spitnI d01id.44 by the... tuso f0 ab.d.
yC0lLAcI0o 000 VITAL OIATOSYOCS
I0.1 LOualto~.  d-fan, llOhoeaOs    00 o.f July 1; 1960. 1970. .td 1IM0                    60101*
data.                                                                                        A- rus  Sloe of  n-sbOd (ps, -.onisa   hnaInbld-toa.  ltba.  o 'Irrl-
rboo P-aalatla  (....... of Coca!) - MC0.:10a  u.kb. . ac lot   rocupl.ttct;                      hae.01.01   ntta  ofoSna   Il dtvdu    110 . . 1111f                qarer
dISf.l..t   L.fLotiaao, of urba  or-i  earaflot coarI.bllly of dnt.                            nod aol: -   f.0 1.,tlA.0 b-oden ar 10455? my oray 101 be lotladed L.
CottcoaatlO       1940, 1970. aid1990 doa.                                                     100 ..boabld fo   Ctatslael punOae
P. alu1t.00P ?ostlaalaosefrofnroanrre-  oa.uba   0  rura   -..ri.  ta
.P.eaao    In ...: 2000 -Canlaoltepoiolaor    id0019brofar..arro   aliuk.00rolaooa    nstttl
total roPa1Latl, by a.. aad 000 04d 10h1: mtoIcy aad   stfLlty rota..                        diilla.S..  -ipeatmoaly.  1.0111.oa aaola.  0-.-p. -t.......Cota. aud
Fra..isol    poCsaat... f o    ralt   rua    at        of thri. 1I.-1. as- a nptad parts.
n:1100 oopf tacy  . bLrthb ... Loc aasa   i   ooth     y'  P., c.pil. 1....Ice   to Ilc1 t ..  -t,n(otn  o   nLao.s,                                          -d11   sba 0   ,rurl -
Is_al. aad feals  Iif. a syeo     y ... btll.inS at 77.2 y.orc.  Th. p....                   Catoattona  dua.llnC    IConnorct  10 Lane  qa                   as Pat ...tCos
mairs for ferallltyrot C la  banh. Cbs.. l-mb  000uada  docItt  a 10o  tota L, urb-  ..sd ltril duellttsn.oI.P,ictrily.
farnLLllyacadIn   t Ii_oa_ 10001 sed  Pao C ooly plab.oal,% yorc.rmons
So-l coutr   to ,:n oootgo   ame ofp10.  t1s. o.baelanals of  -Iornlty                  EDCACTtION
.4d firolt  114  for rro.c_t4on   .,P.-.o.                                                 cAloinad uo        t Ratios
OnotLonoo  onuos to        I .o   C :at.onany  ppl th..or  L. lo aroenh :L...100   tao     ttl  sole ad f.aalo - Croanta,aa00     sLs
tha    ..rt. roa.ieua  o10dabt. ec04 alo  t. Cho  s6,truaa in                                  eel.ano  ol0             1  abs P o   loal          . p atg.  of rspcn
et.   c:tol 1C010 IsabI-d oaly  ft.s fertility r.t.. dacllan  Lo                               ysi.ay   hcoa-aI-.   papalalla_   naCly ltclluds  cOlIdr.n 01.4 6411
rh'a P rius.on    oil- a fal  non rosOuoln  rat. vatt coeb aoan-rut1o                          yans  bun adjutad f ar diffasaa  anthI       o             .rI:r ..ucIa..; for
of  -ea   nI.cC   atcl  a       Coly.  Th. etattoaor    -ouolI. Clis.oa                        houoer... 00             I cl dses    Lttos etoll t sair  Ica  100 Pact---
0011.0t.4 an thc  beat. of tke praj-eold                 ..alaI:a   of tIke PI.. yultaaL..ci ooo pupIl. are 1010  or O.oe tho offi.Ia1 schaol  Sl..
Ia nb. year 2000. aid :0ca,  of, 4. 1110 of fertility ran,, to r.la.                         lOno oro5100  ..tot..  salj.-, and  e          - Caaae.d ..nno.b.   I ...d-y
liar enoajonar  OOoaCleo ts rawbid -.Th. y..r  1ekeo sacoary..    yopa,latio:                    Ifods*asl.nntaa,o  :akrlo0a  l:t:olos  n   uis
.10. .011 b.raOcbid.                                                   usua~~~~~lly of 12 Cn 17  Cnara  a      .. ::. ':,reeadoe.caen  a.Caso
P..L.otIoo On-aty                                                                                  001004
Par 00. Ii. - 014-y..r papal.tloa pn  sose. kilaoets: 1100 MoCCana) of                       Vocaliotal -osolleat earst of nCoodarn)L-...tlaa                  it.tiu ...t
10:01 aen; 1960. 1970 aid 1979 4d-.                                                          Inlui  wllaI    I001:.1   orml, prom... t40  ooa:  t4y
Psr ... I.. -assltulcul load - laatad as A.-r for .1rltoLtaal Loand                            anl   r  sdo.san  nl             n- a    ataa,     an
oILy; 1960. 1970 sed97 RI aM .                                                             `uotl-Ssuo -ee  001     .rtcau,. cad sonn40s              C=00  saos  osnl.d 
A.uano     nSaran Cars )fyse C Can   ld- 001:a   0-16 years). unrkliS-as. (11-             Irlry  id end.ry I5.-I. d416044 by ha.erof Iach.,In10
64 ..y.s.  an..d  -allsd (65   an  aid or.) as panata.9 iS.d-yaar Ppol-                         -orsaoidn   eCa
I.loOa   1960, 1970. aid 1980 40-.                                                           Aualt lsso riosa:  lI rr          - LItaral. adulta 101. 10 r-d 00  011.)
Pon'a-Ltot Gromh I..a    -Cot) - latCl - nasoil g-hm :ae   f Ctota  .14-                         a.Lasoaa a               ai d 801  PapOuLla, Pa~  10 yearsaiars
lcelto   r etO ,a   lnon)-uba- 00.001 orok raa  of -b- .P. l -                     COOStwio' O
latna.      r1906,  9070   0 1        97-0.                                                   assan   as   _a tb, ad                  a)onu cctot d - la a:r .cor  c l.a.,.  cabs
Cr00. 31r0h sot,           .  rouadlI  a-AaaL It:: bitch1  P., tbac,o,  of  LI-..-on              a.natt  10.0hoa  etoht P...-n;              I       wi .....h...b1an,    ..na  cad
yno.ln         6,17, and 1040 dan.                                                              Ilitbr    nln
lou      Parn;190  1970.-ad)    a   dah   . 1990o0.0.                                   Rnaca         tO    th00..blo     111000004        p. of poplaro     ..c.u.s Ic--
Itlltyroa..;aaoally fitn-yaor .-.a,oi  endtS 1.0 1960.1972. and 19800.ne 000..-.obollobhd lIci.aloco
ytl  La.uo  - A--inso  A--Ia tt a.... .) - alasal  -c.r  of  -caytsTV' 0 nlac,.-L  lain0.:onaml) - TV7 r.al.r-  for brodca-  to
of 1blRhk-cttsl 4.fl... uodan auapc.e of  ttalltal feemlLy plIa,no110i peogs.                    Peg.onlcbr par  0_.0.0:4  lpltlo;             O udsullcinn...d TV r-ctooss
FacIly PlnI-Le  - loiea  (:gc!Rt, o  aser,s  fmun      at,otoSs of  arried                       In . c tri.. old 10 O. y....    roselsarul.,o.  of TV .i11 em  10 a 1:-1
wan of  Ol-05g 0                     Y 174    ..r)nO   0  btr-b-cawna.1  WenLta.. t.               aorClcuat ho no                    ...iCd n tuact    - :ha.: 100h 00.5-11. cl
all  -Iarld  -0m    L. .-  age                                                                   oOlio  "daIl  geern  Cssri  mCoeh.arr', 4fL acdnapraoa
publatoo   4.0.8  rlarly to  -inodln   asra..    hi1s.  It L.cntn:
PaO 90   UTIITIOW                                                                                  :0 00 "dollyt If it  PPIo...  .1 1..0 C00 f   nles  a useck.
lode 01 00o4 l:oductlcair. "= Pi.r.a  16-110      oo   fI:olt                                  Cuns-  Atual A-:.4., ...          Cat Cnr l.an- toad on 11   uab., o
Vooto ofalfood comd.s.i.  leodiatllsiuuo   .,  C     o   0                           tlbktn soId 40011 ltce yas.  aldn    d.s0c   odloI   lea
Is on           Y..in    yc b baL..  CnadlttiO. coot:  CIseiy good. (.4. ao....e               aid atbI   0011*.
t.od  of so.:)  bibh 0:,  .8001* .4 0060014 0a5.. 1...  (s ..0ff-..4ai
I... ore srIdnd).   or.t   srdali              of 00  O.Otf  L. based 0
stit    -una-nn  of an  I nd  apyltos aailabl  I  ow. ng:_ y: ca .pita                        -iag10  pnIpo1attt of aLl of..   0*ftttl.n  00C       rasocons 
"Y500.  AnCilbal. noIrlIso cospi..s 4a.-.ti0 podantla.. lillort  1..a                        non tFaroble; 1990. 1970 ead 1980 d-na
eo.ar.. ai  lh-oso  10 00000   Not aupllo   sa .      d108  ..L-I feed. .00d..                  pel   00.1       oa,lbrfr,n   arcoosoS. of lotal total forci.
qaotltlas  sed t. 1104 procaOaiaS. .d I.a.c  La dt.arfbatloa.  l001. qconsaoit- 1L.a.:l foe.  in f.ancl. forenry.  daltito and
OAns e:if artiesto4 by PAO 0b.t  amlylaaOa                   bo.4.In: 1010.  0.1.1-              ff.n;0  procco 111lao  bo;1960. 1970 004 1999 dale.
rtty and helh00       ALg_.11   nodrnaanrea   teoralara               hx. boPoIgnn  Os          90fJp099)-  00  foe 10 eloI.Se. castonel  ,                      awtsa
ood sa_ dlatr lbn.1ln  of p.pltlatlO.  aid aloIn""   10 Psieo  ,!.r nato  an                    C0 lnr.ly   sar Ot  05C  y.r.ttnCse of t0n1 lnkO   foro 
tco.iald 10-1; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dita.                                                      1960. 1970 aid 1940 dnts.
P.rcntasnl  of-ne0(aoai   09-Nl                                   oa tIa   f Pat  apt -artctosle ML. (D.                         I.-I.ttl.me.00   *01  - P ... Ulpa.lan a
qtinsfar all  0anr.a. otoMi             by 0206 p-oid. f. on slaI                        P00..-... of tonal. -L' aid lamb. pPoLtIOtItf all a.a.r-poyiunlcy;
alIoewas of '60 91-0  of total 1:0t0l. P., lay mid 20 loO   of 0.101 oind                      1960. 1970. and. 1990 d.s.  Th-a  .askad0   l'oprlcalorta
La.0 groao10. of 010h0 10 gra    h-ld 00 .00.01 ls-niIn.  'Tboe  staud-                       riflw-lt*  Og-ana rant    of 1)h0 P.Palob. 008 Lats .Im  tri.*
0:s  Cor.   CeCr nba. os0*  of 75 500.  of tonal P1...1.1  aid 2:1 art  of                    fea 0.1.01.00,:0 91:0. 101110  ...rt...
ailsa  PIron L.  as a- fr.. Ceht. earId, Iropoand by FAD it.0   705 Ch   h)d1oo4f IL991       410o  plaloLao  u-d-r 15 atl 65 sad o
World road'Sa-uy; 1961-60, 1970 ead 1977 401..o    r.
yos calls. p,onl=  .00:10 fOot saan  -*4 01     - FtI-L. eaplcy of    4d.
d00  f00_ anlal  andpaso  10arais            lY  1961-5, 1977) aod L97do .
ChIl,d ease  1-A) 1.Wg0  Rate       C1,r :botoa   - 00000 ldsubsye  lch an p:                  lethsonosoto  1:01.. 1100.0 (IctO  L: ca    0          d0) - A .. Load by  itthos
Lii m:ouy 1-6 y.nr., to cliIdna  10 tOli asa  : a0 . fo   -Cn davIPLnyo   ct                              pe iroa   10012  ....st. pa005 .. 0 par---1. oi  p.oroat 40 9-scin
"rLa. 4a00 drloi.d fro  lif. ab001s; 1960. 1970 00149IOS  d010.                                of hOb.   ali
LIfI a Uotncya   1th (y.sa  - AO.ra: tickerof y.ar  of                                                               ..f  ...a1nn7.  010...oteta   rasY  ppOo.lC. . i...r.. of Pc...  ovla
01 bIrth; 1910. 1970 and 190 .dta                                                      and asoud bs lts.nPr aed 6000 anneldarobl. cul
W000*  Vooeollto  sec.0(    th.: l,caad) - 0000-1 death. of lotanti ondoron  year              OslaAd  010.   _Itory I.4. 10.M1 (L'0s5 calacba .  .                           . ruo1 
of aP Pat nhwnod   3oe  101.1 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.                                        A0.1,0t.  yonarty La.n   1.0*  Is eC        .;.to   1.001' h*00000  I allea
A.ts  -oSf1ti  nrato  nolgof-ttl   non   o   au      u.                                            a:tInanLly ed.quge411 disc Pi        snt.l00-C00d  r.qulns                 L.t -10a
naarwpIyly(Inoldon CTtra d sarfaca ustiss 05 Crteated but-          ota10td               ttmid    I Ltl.10:   Io.. loe                U IO  Cn cat`s)  _-ubn a-d rur
.Ir 000  00h10  III repsosootd b0.00.La.  O0r10. Cad IsaoLtry alla) a                          ao01110Pn-Irly lao    1.00  Ii. ono-tbd of araoi P.r -oPl
Oanrasof t.IbaI ...r sepa plaloaltlt .    -n -rbo.  s-a a pbL. r110I--                                       -hr.nul1000. a  10   Io.t-I rotb i le i- 400104( ch1. Irra
cfntdoid  -0     d  -eIno   .   -C 10ra -0.bl achoa  o:0 than  f001.  I: rural  rsaysb       001100.t1 PotuatlOn0010 fcbnoL-to Po.r:  00100L9.  -bsI(0011.  ur
00 idn1.0no 0b.4ag d11 lloorlonapr  o   IedyInE.ol   O
doa.. hf  oplad (totas,uran, and rural parre f         y t notneto Iatohig  ah.
f.o 011y.011.t.  Caidd1.poo.61   0eaostral*o    .    a
sa Cat-nnob  eiat.r-I (e-ayai 0I r-    O coo Of_1   lrt -I- n  elol
Ch. -IdiAlif1id  isa  md1.aaib ebo..0  001.ha     :1117 lasr,. f kai  nolnt   odyo)clo.Saatio
Poral.ttop nor Metal-aFri -- loya.aLug.laa t4,18d by aebka  ul   -Ino Ltilg                                                                      mar 1982
--6stO  eurill-oslO.



-  19  -                                        Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS 1,
GROSS DONESTIC PRODUCT IN 1978-/
3'
Anmual Rate of Growth-
US $ Mln           %       i9/U-/J   i9/5-l8
GDP at market prices                      264.7          100.0        5.4      -1.4
Gross domestic investment                  20.9            7.9        3.3    -18.1
Gross domestic saving                       3.6            1.4       28.7      -2.0
Exports of goods, n.f.s.                   99.5           37.6        5.8      -8.5
Imports of goods, n.f.s.                  116.7           44.1        8.0      -8.5
4 
OUTPUT IN 1979                        Value Added -
US $ Mln        %__
Agriculture                                16.7            6.7
Industry                                   41.1           16.4
Services                                  192.8           76.9
250.6          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                      DF Min                       % of GDP
1980                        1978      1980
Current budgetary revenue               14780                         24.9    25.4
Current budgetary expenditure            9926                         19.1    17.0
Current budgetary surplus                4854                          5.8      8.3
Capital expenditure                      2210                          3.4      3.8
External assistance (net)                 -52                        -0.1    -0.1
GDP DEFLATOR
1976           1977         1978
Index (1975 = 100)                      109.8          134.5        156.6
Annual percentage change                  9.8           22.5         16.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange
rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/   In view of the absence of an agreed concept of ''nationally'' in Djibouti
all data relating to this concept or that of resident are highly speculative
This affects national product, income, savings and to a large extent hampers
the establishment of a balance of payments.
2/   Estimations of GDP by expenditure in 1979 are very tentative.
3/   In 1970 prices
4/   At factor cost
October 6, 1982



-   20   -                        ~~~~~~~Annex 1
-                           ~~~~~~~~Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND BANK LENDING
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS( US $ million) -/
1979              1980            1981
Exports, f.o.b.                                  79.6              107.9            114t.5es
Imports                                         160.0              190.1            206.2
Trade balance                                   -80.4              -82.2            -91.7
Services (net)                                    6.3               20.3             24.0
Current transfers (net)                          81.3               74.6             63.6
Current account balance                           7.2               12.7            - 4.1
Capital movements-(net)                           5.0                8.3              2.1
Government                                       -0.3               -0.3            - 0.2
Public enterprises                                1.1               -0.8            - 0.7
Private, including E & 0                          4.2                9.4              3.1
Changes in reserves                             -12.2              -21.0              2.0
(-= increa-se)-
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
See note 2
IBRD/IDA LENDING,, SEPTEMBER 301, 1982 (US$ Mln.)
IBRD              IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed 
Undisbursed                                                        3.0
Outstanding inc. Undisbursed                                       3.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1976 - 1982
US $ 1.0 = DF177.721
DF 1.0   =  US$0.005627
I/    Source =IMF
2/    When reexports are deducted from total exports of goods and services,
net exports account for less thani 2 percent of GDP, consisting mainly
of the value of the services exported by the port, since there are
virtually no domestic merchandise exports. The only traceable exports
are live animals and hides and skins.
A - -       1   o



- 21 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
A.  Statement of Bank Loans IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                              US$ million Amount
Credit                                               Less Cancellations
Number     Year      Borrower      Purpose      Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
1232-DJ    1982      Djibouti      Technical       -      3.0         3.0
Assistance
for Planning
& Statistics
TOTAL                                       -     3.0          3.0
of which had been repaid             -        -            -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1,           -     3.0
TOTAL undisbursed                           -     3.0          3.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.    Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1982)
None
C. Projects in Execution (as of September 30, 1982)
Credit No. 1232-DJ Technical Assistance Project: US$3.0 million Credit of
May 21, 1982,; Date of Effectiveness: September 22,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project, cofinanced with UNDP, provides technical assistance to the
Directorates of Planning and Statistics, training, and equipment.
The main part of the credit is for a fund to be used to finance studies
relative to Djibouti's planning needs, especially for preparation of
priority projects. The project manager and other members of the technical
assistance team are now in Djibouti.



- 22 -
ANNEX III
DJIBOUTI
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
I.       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Origin of Project: Request by
Government for assistance in
highway maintenance during a
programs mission:                           June 1980
(b) Identification Mission:                     October 1980
(c) Appraisal Mission:                          November 1981.
(d) Negotiations:                               June 1982
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness:              February 1983
II.      Special Implementation Action:  None
III.     Special Conditions
(a) Condition of Effectiveness: Receipt by the Association of a decree
providing for the organization of the Ministry of Public Works
(paragraph 29);
(b) Government would from to time discuss with the Bank its highway
sector development policies and investment program and keep the
Bank informed about policies affecting other parts of the
transport sector (paragraph 36);
(c) Government would acquire the necessary land for the construction
and equipping of new ma:intenance facilities (paragraph 41);
(d) Government would engage a master mechanic, who will arrive in
Djibouti not later than January 1, 1983 (paragraph 42);
(e) Government would furnish the Association for approval a detailed
program for the training component (paragraph 45); and
(f) Government will provide the Association with a copy of the report
of the study on the technical training needs of Djibouti, upon its
acceptance together with a program for training public works
personnel based on the report (paragraph 45).



U C ARAB? -< Olf,S.    
SU D AN          '>,Fz,,_t.        <E T H I   PIA                                                                           rB    ro                                         == 
'D AA
5LA   Ff TH AK-.' u                                                             t'9        >t   w  
KEN-A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
/                                               7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
________________ /. ... t..,.                                                                                                          ih.   __     ,> f   tt     aee  a  
A~~~~~~~~~Ae
EA. ..,.. ~j,,"' '. bn.d/ '1                f   '                                          y Wn-i .        Az '  Tt          r         I -                    = 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                           - - -   t' - I H A     M A N E    N C
wB 5 ow AiTbT /v' \ q ui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~st-it 1-se.Pth;
|                          IT r | 600-1,000~~~~~~1 .p'
i oo             ,2 30                                     3R       43 00         200-4  0                              d J~~~~~~~~~~~d,-d -t
<AA,i5AA~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l,~ -dre
a-   b-i/ma
A~~~~  =-a-~~~~~~~~   c-                                      460- 0
V.    --ShAhlley       AV,          =     -0



