Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17414 -DO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 3.0 MILLION
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY REFORM PROJECT
FEBRUARY 24, 1998
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2, 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso
US$1.00 = 14.0 Pesos
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
EA                        Environmental Assessment
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
GDR                       Government of the Dominican Republic
GEF                       Global Environmental Facility
IBRD                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                       International Competitive Bidding
INPRA                     Instituto Nacional de Protecci6n Ambiental
NBF                       Not Bank Financed
NCB                       National Competitive Bidding (Licitaci6n Publica Nacional)
NEAP                      National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                       Non-Governmental Organization
ONAPLAN                   National Planning Office (Oficina Nacional de Planificaci6n)
PCU                       Project Coordinating Unit
PIP                       Project Implementation Plan
SOE                       Statement of Expenditure
STP                       Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
TORs                      Terms of Reference
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Team Leaders: Maria Donoso Clark and T. Anderson White



Dominican Republic
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Disbursement conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 6.      Documents in Project File
Annex 7.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 8.      Country at a Glance



Dominican Republic
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Date: 2/24/98                                       Task Team Leaders: M. D. Clark and T. A. White
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos    Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Project ID:            Sector: Environment          Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan    Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit      [  Guarantee        [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 3.0
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     []  Single currency, specify US Dollars
Grace period (years): 5           [ ]  Standard Variable  []  Fixed            [x]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75 %
Service charge: N/A
Financing plan (US$m):
Source          Local             Foreign            Total
Government           0.4                                   0.4
Beneficiaries         0.3                -                  0.3
IBRD            2.1                0.9                3.0
Total          2.8                 0.9               3.7
Borrower: Dominican Republic
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: National Planning Office (ONAPLAN) within the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      1999      2000        2001      2002
Annual      0.75       1.0        0.75       0.5
Cumulative      0.75       1.75       2.5        3.0
For Guarantees: NA                              []  Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Project implementation period: 3 years. Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 1998.
Expected Closing Date: December 31, 2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project development objective of this Learning and Innovation Loan is to establish the basis
for improved environmental management by defining environmental policy reforms and elaborating a
National Environmental Management Program (NEMP) through a learning and participatory process.
This project would be the first phase of a longer-term effort to improve environmental management.
Subsequent Government efforts to implement the Program could eventually be supported by an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The project would undertake the following activities in order to identify
the policy reforms and develop the environmental management program: (a) taking stock of
environmental management problems, information gaps and policy issues and defining priority areas for
reform; (b) assessing and defining legal, fiscal and institutional reforms; (c) developing a national
environmental management policy; (d) testing innovative approaches for addressing key environmental
policy issues; (e) developing a long-term, consolidated investment plan to support implementation of the
environmental management program; and (f) strengthening key environmental institutions as necessary to
achieve the goals of the project. The three year project would be executed in a participatory manner in
order to build the capacity, consensus, and constituency necessary for successful implementation of the
Program in the long-term. A monitoring and evaluation system would be established to measure the
learning and innovation process, and facilitate the incorporation of lessons and experiences into the
reform Program.
Performance indicators measuring progress towards achieving the development objective would
include: (a) key environmental policy issues identified by stakeholders by month three; (b) progress
towards learning how to address key issues measured in participatory workshops each semester; (c) pilot
activities to address key issues identified by month six; (d) four key background studies completed by
year one; (e) key sector studies identifying specific reforms completed by year two; (f) 75% of pilot
activities successfully completed by year two; (g) draft environmental management program prepared by
year three.
Indicators of project output would include: (a) key legal, fiscal and institutional reforms debated,
negotiated and defined; (b) background studies and pilot activities completed, results evaluated and
incorporated into the environmental management policy reform program; (c) public consensus forged and
wide-spread support for reforms established; (d) a monitoring and evaluation system established and
ready for wider use by the National Planning Office (ONAPLAN); and (e) an environmental support plan
detailing prioritized investments and likely sources of funding prepared. Government adoption of sound
policy and institutional reforms would become a condition for approval of a possible follow-on APL.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14260-DO      Date of latest CAS discussion: April 1995
The CAS includes several goals the project would support. Most notably, they include improving
natural resources (environmental) management; preparing a National Environmental Action Plan;
assisting Government efforts to reform and modernize the state; and promoting decentralization. The
Government and the CAS appreciate the necessity of improving the country's environmental
management because the environment is critical for the sustainability of the country's important and
growing tourist industry, now comprising about 16% of GDP, and overall economic growth.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Major sector issues. The Government, the private sector and civil society widely accept that
there are major technical environmental issues such as deforestation, water resource management and



Page 3
coastal zone degradation, that severely undermine the country's social and economic development.'
These stakeholders also accept that there is insufficient knowledge on the degree, location and causes of
the major environmental problems, that the current institutional and legal framework is fragmented and
inadequate, and that competition between environmental management agencies frustrates coherent
reform. Moreover, there is widespread recognition that there is no public consensus on which
environmental issues are priority, or what institutional, legal, and fiscal reforms are necessary to resolve
them. In this context, the major overriding issue currently facing the Dominican Republic in terms of
environmental management is the lack of a viable and coherent strategy to reform environmental policies
and institutions.
Government strategy. A major goal of the new Government is to reverse the trends of
environmental degradation and ensure that the Dominican environment contributes to, rather than
impedes, social and economic development. To meet this goal the Government intends to: (a) develop
and adopt legal, fiscal, and institutional reforms for environmental management; and (b) undertake new
projects to help implement the reforms.2
The Government has already initiated important actions towards accomplishing these steps.
These actions include, for example: preparing and reviewing a draft environmental law; preparing a plan
for the Reform and Modernization of the State; including the environment as a major theme within the
National Dialogue - a nation-wide, participatory process to identify reform priorities; executing GEF
biodiversity and coastal zone management projects; launching the Quisqueya Verde project - a national
effort to coordinate and catalyze reforestation projects; and ratifying international environmental treaties.
In preparation for the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), the
Govermment produced a country report identifying a range of priority environmental issues, representing
its first attempt to coordinate environmental management efforts. Following the Conference, the
Government expanded ONAPLAN's Environmental Planning Department and charged it with defining
national environmental policy and formulating specific environmental plans. The Government has also
begun the process of policy reform in several key sectors, such as forestry, tourism and water. There is
strong Government support for the proposed Bank-financed Environmental Management in Tourism
Development Centers Project that is under preparation. There is also substantial momentum, supported
by the findings of the Presidential Commission for the Reform and Modernization of the State and the
National Dialogue, for the creation of a National Institute for Environmental Protection (INPRA) - an
entity that would manage environmental policy, regulations, and enforcement. In addition, there is a
vibrant private sector interested in adopting sound environmental policies.
Although Government efforts are numerous and important, they are also insufficiently
coordinated and targeted, not based on up-to-date scientific data, and often not founded on widespread
stakeholder participation. Several recent Government attempts to reform the legal framework - most
notably the proposed environmental law and the decree to alter national park boundaries - faced
opposition from political parties and environmental organizations on technical grounds and because of
insufficient public consultation. The Government eventually withdrew the proposed law from
consideration and rescinded the decree. These experiences have led the Government to postpone future
'For an assessment of the environmental issues in the Dominican Republic, see "Environmental Issues Paper",
Report No. 11813-DO, completed in 1993. Project preparation missions have confirmed the major findings of that
review and verified that they remain timely.
2 Both the ruling party's platform and the first product of the national dialogue initiative, "Un Proyecto de Naci6n:
Propuestas Elaboradas por la Sociedad Dominicana", published on January 18, 1998, identify environmental policy
reform as a major goal and describe the need for additional studies, substantive institutional, legal and fiscal reform,
preparation of a national environmental policy, and identification of investment operations to implement the
reforms.



Page 4
reforms until it can ensure that the reforms are technically solid and are prepared with appropriate
stakeholder participation. However, despite this intent, the Government does not now have the
institutional capacity to gather the necessary technical knowledge, manage the policy reform process, and
prepare a coherent strategy for environmental management reform.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues to be addressed. The project would address primarily the lack of an analytical base
and consensus on needed policy reforms, and enable the Government to prepare a National
Environmental Management Program. To address the lack of consensus on reforms, a series of
background studies and consultative processes would be carried out to build the information base and
provide the analytical framework needed to stimulate and inform the discussion of viable options for
improving environmental management. The project would build the institutional capacity of the
Environmental Planning Department in ONAPLAN to coordinate and organize environmental policy
formulation and management activities, build the capacity of INPRA, if established during the life of the
project, test innovative approaches, and review experiences, and would seek to build consensus on the
appropriate regulatory mechanisms for coordinated environmental management.
Strategic choices. The social learning and participatory approach to be used in this project would
reduce the risk of failure, increase the chances for widespread support for Program implementation, and
enhance environmental awareness. Numerous environmental reforms have been proposed in the past.
However, these have either not been adopted or effectively implemented, running the risk that each failed
attempt undermines the possibility of enacting real reform. The new Government now recognizes the
need for careful and participatory analysis and the importance of establishing a proper incentive
framework to guide private sector activities. Both the Bank and the Government also recognize that the
country should first go through this "adaptive learning" process prior to undertaking major investments.
This project would define the key policy and institutional reforms and investment priorities. Adoption of
these reforms could be preconditions for Bank consideration of a possible APL.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component              Category     Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
Support for Policy and Institutional  TA          1.5        41       1.5         50
Reform
Pilot Activities                     TA           1.25       34       0.75        25
Project Management and Training      TA           0.9        25       0.75        25
Total                                             3.6       100       3.0        100
Project Component I - Supporting Policy and Institutional Reform. The objective of this
component would be to: (a) define, through a consultative process and sound technical principles, priority
legal, institutional, and fiscal reforms necessary to improve environmental management in the Dominican
Republic, including a rationalized EA process; (b) define sectoral action plans for reform (e.g. mining,
tourism) and priorities for future investments in environmental management; and (c) prepare a National
Environmental Management Program (NEMP) that integrates and articulates the proposed reforms and
investments, and the practical lessons learned though the Pilot Activities component (see below). To
achieve these objectives, the project would finance background studies, a process of national-level public
debate on the proposed reforms, and the preparation and publication of the NEMP.



Page 5
Project Component 2 - Developing Pilot Activities: The objective of this component would be to
develop and test innovative activities and new mechanisms for finding solutions to priority environmental
policy problems, including innovative models for natural resource management, increasing
decentralization of environmental functions, public-private sector partnerships, and creative financing
mechanisms for sustainable environmental management. To achieve this objective, the project would
finance on a cost-sharing basis a program of grants to non-governmental organizations and municipalities
to carry out the activities, and a system for monitoring and evaluating the results of implementation, and
integrating these results into the National Environmental Management Program.
Project Component 3 - Building Capacity for Project Management, and Providing Technical
Training: The objective of this component would be to strengthen capacity for environmental planning
and management in the Environmental Planning Department of ONAPLAN and other key environmental
agencies as appropriate; ensure efficient and effective project implementation by the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU); and develop the needed human resources for the new institutional arrangements that would
result from the reforms. To achieve this objective, the project would finance the establishment of the
PCU, including consulting services, office equipment, training, and incremental operating costs.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As noted above, the project would support the identification and formulation of key reforms in
the legal and institutional framework for environmental management. These reforms would build upon
the broad recommendations to be completed in the short-term by the Presidential Commission for Reform
and Modernization of the State and the National Dialogue, and would seek to rationalize and consolidate
environmental management at the national level, with eventual decentralization of certain environmental
functions to the provincial level of government. The project would assist ONAPLAN in finalizing and
detailing the broad recommendations of the Presidential Commission.
In addition, the project would support a thorough analysis of the current fiscal incentive
framework affecting environmental management and identify specific fiscal policy reforms, consistent
with the "polluter pays" principle, to strengthen that framework. Moreover, the policy reforms and other
project activities would be based on the application of the following guiding principles: (a) promotion of
public-private sector partnerships; (b) use of market-based instruments to achieve environmental
objectives; (c) decentralization of implementation functions; and (d) extensive involvement of civil
society in policy reform.
3. Benefits and target population:
The major benefit of this project would be that it would create the basis for a longer-term
environmental program to reverse environmental degradation in the Dominican Republic. This
degradation not only undermines sustainable development, but affects especially the country's poorest
citizens. The poor are directly exposed to the open sewers and toxic wastes, rely upon impure drinking
water, and face declining agricultural returns due to poor land-use practices.
The immediate target population of this project would consist of central and provincial-level
Government officials, and members of the private sector and non-governmental organizations that are
involved in aspects of natural resources and environmental management. However, a wider target
population would be reached through the participatory process and communication campaign
implemented during the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The National Planning Office (ONAPLAN) of the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency would
implement the project. The Director of ONAPLAN would provide policy guidance to the project and
oversee its implementation. ONAPLAN would establish a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to carry out
day-to-day project management functions. The PCU would be headed by a Project Coordinator who
would report to the Director of ONAPLAN. The Coordinator would collaborate directly with the Head of



Page 6
the Environmental Planning Department on technical matters, and would ensure that the regular staff of
the Department be involved in key project tasks to ensure effective capacity building. Given
ONAPLAN's relative unfamiliarity with implementing Bank administrative requirements, and the fact
that ONAPLAN is not expected to be an implementing agency, ONAPLAN would delegate
administration of Bank loan funds and procurement processes to a qualified entity, which would be hired
by the Government and paid from its counterpart funds.
The PCU, with the support of specialists contracted for this purpose, would be in charge of
monitoring and supervision as well as final evaluation of the studies and stock-taking activities to assess
lessons learned. Within three months of effectiveness, the PCU would host a workshop of key
stakeholders to identify the key environmental management policy issues meriting focus during the life of
the project. This same workshop would also identify the applied policy research questions associated
with each issue. These policy questions would serve the basis for identifying pilot activities and orienting
background studies. Subsequently, and on a semestral basis, the PCU would host participatory
workshops to measure progress towards answering the policy questions, and learning of the reforms
necessary to address the key policy issues. Each workshop would be evaluated at its conclusion to ensure
adequate modifications in the consultation process.
An inter-institutional Advisory Commission -- with a composition and TOR satisfactory to the
Bank -- would be established to provide overall guidance for the project. The Advisory Commission
would ensure close inter-institutional collaboration on the project, and review and endorse plans for
technical studies and policy reforms. The Commission would also advise upon the selection of the
members of the Technical Committee (see below) and oversee its work, transmit project findings into the
national policy debate, and promote adoption of the environmental policy reforms developed during the
project.
A Technical Committee - with a composition and TOR satisfactory to the Bank - would be
established to advise on the selection of key policy issues to be addressed by the pilot activities, select
pilot activities from competitively-submitted project proposals, monitor and evaluate the findings of those
activities, and identify key policy lessons to be drawn for national policy reform.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
As indicated in the CAS, the initial objective was to conduct a NEAP. A stand-alone NEAP
project was decided against because Government interests are broader in scope and the NEAP exercise
alone would not offer sufficient flexibility to respond to the fluid political process of institutional reform.
Furthermore, at that time the new lending instruments were not available. Other options explored with
the Government included: (a) preparing a technical assistance project; and (b) including the activity
within the proposed Bank-financed project to build waste management facilities in tourism centers. This
technical assistance project was rejected, given the need for swift project preparation and execution, and
the lack of prioritized action plans and investment programs. Inclusion of the project in the proposed
Bank-financed project to build waste management facilities in tourism centers was rejected because this
arrangement would have severely diluted the impact of the project on sectors other than waste
management and tourism. The LIL was chosen as the preferred alternative because it was the best-suited
instrument to address the critical lessons learned from previous Bank projects of a similar nature; it would
enable timely and flexible execution; it would provide sufficient funds to gather the necessary
information and conduct a nation-wide participatory policy reform process; it could set the basis for
subsequent environmental interventions; and because, as a loan, it would imply greater Government
commitment.



Page 7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                     Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed in LAC region
Environmental management              Chile Environmental            S                S
Institutions Development
Trinidad and Tobago            S                S
Environmental
Management Project
Honduras Environmental         U               U
Development Project
Mexico Environment and       closed
Natural Resources Project
Bolivia Environmental        closed
Technical Assistance
Project
Bank-financed in Dominican Republic
Wastewater treatment in tourism centers.    Environmental        preparation
Management in Tourism
Centers
Biodiversity protection               GEF / Enabling Activity    preparation
Land use and agricultural productivity  Irrigated Land and           U3               S
Watershed Management
Other development agencies in Dominican
Republic
IDB                                   Water & Sanitation         preparation
USAID                                 Renewable Energy         implementation
UNDP                                  GEF/Coastal Zone Mgt.    implementation
UNDP                                  GEF/Biodiversity Prot.   implementation
UNDP                                  Agenda 21 Program        implementation
UNDP                                  Montreal Protocol        implementation I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been learned from Bank execution of a variety of related environmental projects,
including the numerous NEAPs and Environmental Management Projects executed throughout Latin
America and elsewhere.
Bank experience preparing National Environmental Action Plans underscore the importance of
widespread and meaningful participation for the success of policy reforms. Furthermore, Bank lessons
Due to the Government delays in satisfying the conditions of effectiveness.



Page 8
indicate that expanding knowledge of problems through careful analytical work is a prerequisite for
achieving results. The design of this project reflects both of these lessons.
An important source of additional lessons is the Environment Department's recent report,
Environmental Capacity Building: A Review of the World Bank's Portfolio, December 18, 1997 (draft).
Although this Review focused on institutional development components of environmental projects, the
bulk of the recommendations are relevant to this LIL project as it essentially concerns reforming
institutions. The findings and recommendations of the Review relevant to the Project are excerpted
below:
"Findings. Changing and influencing institutions fundamentally involves changing
institutional cultures, the knowledge base, and informal modes of interaction, more than
simple organizational structures, legal and regulatory frameworks, or office hardware.
Such efforts are inevitably slow and gradual, and they are likely to encounter resistance
from established interests. The challenge of strengthening environmental institutions is
further complicated by the cross-sectoral nature of environmental problems, the lack of
knowledge and understanding of the issues which are typically new in the countries, and
the fact that the institutions being strengthened or charged with implementing the projects
are typically very young, often without clearly defined institutional responsibilities.
Recommendations: (a) Governments must have ownership and be fully committed to
projects, involving beneficiaries, interested parties, and the public more generally, so that
public pressure and accountability of institutions are present; (b) technical assistance is
only successful if skills and technical expertise are actually absorbed by beneficiary
institutions; (c) projects should support longer term programs, piloting of initiatives, and
be designed as a series of "building blocks", with the specific objectives being defined as
the project develops, as institutional capacity is gradually built, and as the Bank increases
its knowledge about institutions; (d) the Bank needs to better understand the history and
politics that guide institutional decisions, to build a strong consensus with local
governments and institutions about the importance of the proposed efforts, to ensure the
capacity to absorb the proposed assistance, and to ensure the commitment by
governments; (e) task managers must have the incentives to pursue long term processes
with environmental institutions, with small and slow disbursements, and with not many
obvious and visible changes; (f) it is important to create partnerships and cooperation in
the institutional development process between the beneficiary agency and other agencies
involved with environmental issues, such as universities, industries, NGOs and other
government agencies; (g) the current, positive universal trend of institutional
development towards decentralization, partnerships, and more direct involvement by
local stakeholders must be continued; and (h) since most of the ideal ex ante conditions
will not be met at the beginning, environmental institutional development projects have
to be simple and flexible."
The Project preparation team concluded that a LIL would be the most appropriate instrument to
address the issues and recommendations listed above. The project is intended to be the first phase of a
longer-term program. It will carefully monitor the use of technical assistance to ensure institutional
strengthening. It is designed in a manner to facilitate flexibility, and it will encourage the Government to
adopt reforms that embody the principles of public-private partnerships, decentralization, and a strong
role for communities and local organizations in environmental policy reform and management.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Given the economic importance of tourism and the strong link between tourism and the
environment, an environmental protection agenda enjoys widespread support within the Government, the



Page 9
President included. There is long-standing interest on the part of the new Government for Bank support
on environmental issues, and several factors indicate borrower commitment and ownership: (a) Strong
support from the Vice President, who is charged with overseeing the Government's environment program
and has met with preparation missions to ensure steady progress; (b) the designation of ONAPLAN by
the Government to develop the policy and institutional framework for environmental management; (c)
completion of a draft environmental law; (d) positive support demonstrated at two project preparation
meetings with relevant Government agencies; and (e) the Government is proceeding with its reform
agenda for the environment and is currently finalizing a Presidential decree to create a national institute
for environmental protection, for which this project would provide the basis. Finally, this Project
Appraisal Document has been prepared jointly with staff of ONAPLAN.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support in this project lies both in Bank experience with technical
assistance for environmental reform within and outside the region, and in its role as an independent
broker among competing government agencies. Supervision missions will be tailored to provide Bank
know-how on these and other relevant topics as appropriate. The Bank can also support investments in
environmental improvements in the Dominican Republic in the longer term if the proposed project
succeeds.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic: Not applicable
2. Financial: Not applicable; Fiscal impact: Because project activities would terminate at the end of the
project period, their fiscal impact would arise only from counterpart funding requirements, which are
estimated at $420,000 over the three-year life of the project. These requirements would have a negligible
impact on the overall fiscal situation.
3. Technical: There is limited technical and managerial expertise within ONAPLAN and other
Government agencies charged with addressing environmental issues. Therefore, the project would
contract local and foreign expertise to conduct the complex studies and analytical work. Simultaneously,
Government staff would be responsible for participating in all key tasks (e.g. preparing terms of
reference, identifying priority issues, studies, and pilot activities, analyzing the results, and formulating
the National Environmental Management Program) to ensure that the project strengthens the capacity of
ONAPLAN and other relevant Government entities.
4. Institutional:
Executing agency. The executing agency for the project would be ONAPLAN, whose
Environmental Planning Department is the agency mandated to coordinate environmental planning efforts
within the country. This agency is perceived by other Government agencies to be legitimate, credible,
and independent in considering the reforms of government institutions. ONAPLAN is currently the
executing agency for several GEF and Capacity 21 environmental management projects. These projects
have established coordinating units, are administered by a third party technical entity, and have policy
reform and small grants components. ONAPLAN is experienced in providing overall supervision to such
projects.
Project management. ONAPLAN's limited project management capacity would be addressed by
establishing a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) reporting directly to the Director, which would be
responsible for implementing project activities, while sub-contracting an independent entity to administer
financial management and procurement under the project. An independent Advisory Commission would
be established to provide overall guidance to project management, and a special Technical Committee
would be formed to oversee management of the pilot activities.



Page I 0
5. Social: The effects of a poorly managed environment, particularly in the context of an island state and
a growing tourist industry, can have long-lasting social repercussions. The project would ensure the
analysis of these critical social issues as an integral part of the studies to be undertaken, including
mechanisms to address them, and would ensure that the Government incorporates social assessment in
the policies and procedures developed for environmental impact assessment. Furthermore, pilot activities
are expected to have strong community participation.
6. Environmental:    Environmental Category    []A   []B   [X] C
No adverse environmental impacts are expected since no works are intended or expected.
However, regulations for pilot activities would provide for the application of relevant Bank
environmental guidelines.
7. Participatory approach: The social learning and participatory approach to formulate the Program
would ensure the participation of a wide range of central and provincial-level Government officials,
members of the private sector, and representatives of NGOs and local communities who are active in
management of natural resources and the environment. The pilot activities would be designed
specifically to ensure participation from civil society. A participatory methodology would be developed
and employed as the key mechanism to identify policy reforms and develop the National Environmental
Management Program. The eventual adoption of the legal, fiscal, and institutional reforms identified by
the project would necessitate the involvement of the key executive and legislative political leaders of the
country.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Recognizing the importance of incorporating learning into the project as it advances, special emphasis
would be given to monitoring and evaluation of project activities (e.g., studies, social assessments, pilot
activities) in order to ensure the incorporation of important lessons into the preparation of the
Environmental Management Program. The purpose of the project would be to create the basis for a
sustainable management framework, and further investments would depend upon Government
commitment to implement and maintain this framework. In addition, this project would enhance the
Government's capacity to manage environmental planning and coordinate environmental management.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
The project may not be managed in an effective  S      Establish PCU within ONAPLAN
and timely manner because of the limited               with  clear TORs, hire  proven
capacity of the Environmental Planning Unit of         Project     Coordinator     and
ONAPLAN                                                Administrative    Officer,   and
integrate  long-term  staff  from
ONAPLAN.   Build on existing
institutions and activities wherever
appropriate.   Contract qualified
entity to conduct financial and
procurement tasks. In addition, key
studies and analytical work would
be outsourced.
Government would not address the most          H
intractable issues, or rationalize environmental       All  institutions   and   sectors



Page I I
management responsibilities                            (including  the  private)  would
participate in the policy reform
process from the beginning and
would have clearly defined roles,
increasing the likelihood of wide
consensus and adoption of reforms.
Furthertnore, public participation in
the learning process is likely to lead
to greater environmental awareness
and better compliance.
Background  studies would not effectively      M
contribute to new strategy, reforms or better          Draft TORs for key studies would
practice.                                              be finalized prior to effectiveness,
studies would be monitored, a
monitoring and evaluation system
would be put in place, and clear
mechanisms   for  incorporating
results into the program would be
established.
Pilot activities would not effectively contribute  M   Pilot activities would be selected
to strategy, reforms or better practice.                according to predetermined criteria
and standard procedures detailed in
Regulations. A technically qualified
independent Technical Committee
would  be   established,   with
composition and TOR satisfactory
to the Bank, to select pilot activities
for inclusion under the project.
While there is broad-based support
Congress would not ratify the project's legal  S       for the project within the
agreement in a timely manner                           Govermnent, the congressional
campaign of May 1998 and hence
the difficulty of gaining a quorum,
may delay ratification.
Overall Risk Rating                            S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) ONAPLAN shall have formally established the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and
appointed a project coordinator;
(b) the PCU shall have completed draft TORs for the four key studies to be executed in the first
year, namely, the environmental diagnosis and the studies to identify legal, fiscal and institutional reforms
(c) ONAPLAN shall have contracted an independent technical entity to assist with the



Page 12
administration of the project.
2. Other dated covenants and disbursement conditions:
(a) within three months of the date of effectiveness, ONAPLAN shall have contracted the
administrative officer;
(b) within three months of the date of effectiveness, ONAPLAN shall have prepared an
Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank for all project activities other than the pilot
activities;
(c) within six months of the date of effectiveness, ONAPLAN shall have submitted to the Bank
the TORs and proposed composition of the Advisory Commission and the Technical
Committee;
(d) within six months of the date of effectiveness, ONAPLAN shall have prepared a detailed
plan, acceptable to the Bank, describing the participatory process to be employed to develop
the policy reforms and prepare the National Environmental Management Program;
(e) no disbursements will be made against pilot activities until ONAPLAN has prepared
Regulations, acceptable to the Bank, to govern the operation of the pilot activities program.
3. Policy letter:
(a) the Government shall undertake that the functions and institutional location of any newly
created public environmental management entities would reflect the result of studies
undertaken under the project, and that the work program of such entities would be consistent
with the project's objectives and strategy.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. (Draft TORs for major studies will be prepared by effectiveness.)
[x] The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



'lage 13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Maria Donoso Clark and T. Anderson White
Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos






Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Dominican Republic: National Environmental Policy Reform Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                       (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve natural resources      Progress in curbing          Project-sponsored   Improved management of
management (support preparation   deforestation, controlling  assessments       natural resources and the
of an Environmental Action Plan).  watershed and coastal                        environment would enhance
degradation, etc.; completion of                sustainable social and
national environmental                          economic development
management program                              through improvement in the
productivity of resource-
based activities, particularly
in the context of an island
state.
Project Development Objective:                                                  (Objective to Goal)
Establish the basis for improved    (i) Key environmental policy    Project-sponsored  GDR commitment to
environmental management by    issues identified by        monitoring and       improved environmental
elaborating a national         stakeholders by month three;   impact evaluations    management remains
environmental management       (ii) Progress towards learning   (witlh baseline and  strong. Key
program, including developing a   how to address key issues  follow-up studies) to  legal/fiscal/institutional
fiscal and regulatory framework    measured in participatory  be undertaken with   reforms would be adopted
and testing innovative approaches  workshops each semester;  results incorporated   by Congress and
to addressing key environmental   (iii) Pilot activities to address   into policy reforms    institutions involved in
problems.                      key issues identified by month  and environmental    environmental management.
six;                        management          Continued GDR
(iv) Four key background    program.            commitment and the
studies completed by year one;                  adoption of key reforms
(v) Key sector studies                          would be conditions for
identifying specific reforms                    advancing a possible
completed by year two                           follow-up investment
(vi) 75% of pilot activities                    operation (APL).
successfully completed by year
two;
(vii) Draft environmental
management program prepared
by year three.
Outputs:                                                                        (Outputs to Objective)
(i) Improved laws, sectoral/fiscal  (i) General acceptance by  Results of quarterly    Active participation by
policies, and technical processes   stakeholders of key policy  monitoring and  GDR agencies, private
identified                     reforms                     evaluation (with pilot  sector/civil society in pilot
(ii) Coherent and effective    (ii) Roles of central, sectoral    activities evaluated    activities and program
institutional arrangements     and provincial institutions  on completion)      development
identified at the central and  defined and agreed          reported to the      Adequate applied research
provincial levels              (iii) Pilot activities completed,  Advisory      design and consultation
(iii) Innovative approaches to  results evaluated and integrated  Commission; PCU  process and technical
environmental management tested  into environmental program  ensures results    expertise.



(iv) Public and private sector  (iv) Key activities conducted to  properly incorporated
awareness and participation in  foster public consensus; wide-  into environmental
environmental planning and     spread support for reforms   management
management increased           established                  program.
(v) System for monitoring and  (v) Monitoring and evaluation
evaluating environmental planning  system established and ready
established                    for wider use
(vi) Possible follow-up investment (vi) Environmental Assessment
(APL) identified               (EA) process rationalized
Project Components/Sub-        Inputs:                     Results of monitoring  (Components to Outputs)
components:                    (1) Policy studies and       and evaluation      GDR commitment to project
(1) Policy and Institutional Reform  consultations - US$ 1.5 m.  reported to the  remains strong.
(2) US$ 1.25 m.             Advisory            Timely execution of key
(2) Pilot Activities           (3) Support for PCU,        Commission; PCU      studies, consultation
ONAPLAN and other key       ensures results      process, and pilot activities.
(3) Project Management and     environmental agencies      properly incorporated  Timely procurement of
Training                       variously through consultants,  into reforms; PCU  goods and services.
operating costs, and training -   prepares regular
_  US$ 0.9 m.               reports.



Annex 2
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Supporting Policy and Institutional Reform - US$ 1.5 million
The objective of this component is to (i) define, through a consultative process, analytical studies, and
sound technical principles, the legal, institutional, and fiscal framework for environmental management
that would serve as a major input for a long-tern national environmental management reform program
for the Dominican Republic; and (ii) lay the foundation and set priorities for future investments in
environmental management. It would complement the work of the Presidential Commission for Reform
and Modernization of the State, would focus on analysis and assessment of environmental issues across
sectors, and would promote broad discussion of key elements of environmental policy by multi-sectoral
stakeholders, including those from the private sector and civil society.
This component would be implemented through the following activities:
* Background studies: The Environmental Program would be based on three types of background
studies. The first type would focus on taking stock of the existing situation through a diagnostic
study and reviewing three macro-level areas: (a) the legal framework; (b) fiscal policies; and (c)
rationalization of the institutional framework. The preparation of these studies would include
workshops and consultative meetings to discuss findings. The results of these studies and
consultations would set priorities for the policy reforms and additional studies, help finalize the
Environmental Framework Law, redefine the institutional structure, and modify fiscal policies. The
second type of studies would focus on the priority sectors (e.g., industry, tourism, mining, energy,
agriculture, infrastructure, and health) and would include a sector assessment, an inventory of
pollution sources and management alternatives, and development of incentives for encouraging
private sector and civil society solutions to sectoral problems. Studies would indicate where
information is lacking and what information is necessary for establishing appropriate standards and
regulations and defining the appropriate economic, financial, and fiscal instruments for improving
environmental management. In addition, past innovative experiences would be evaluated and
incorporated into the Environmental Policy Reform Program. The third type of study would focus on
developing technical and fiscal standards, regulations, and processes (e.g., environmental assessment,
licensing procedures, control mechanisms, etc.) for implementing the program once the
Environmental Framework Law has been approved. The Advisory Commission would be in charge
of setting the priorities for and ultimately selecting the studies to be undertaken under the project.
The studies would be performed, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, by consultants
contracted by the PCU. The findings and recommendations of these studies would be presented to
the Advisory Commission and reviewed by the appropriate institutions.
* Public Consultation: To build consensus and gamer strong support, the program would be
developed through an approach ensuring the active participation of all sectors, both public and private
(local governments, business, civil society). To implement this activity, the following steps would be
undertaken: (a) the PCU would prepare an action plan for developing the program. This plan would
detail the consultation process, including the objectives and sequencing of each particular activity and
would require the non-objection of the Bank; (b) experts would be contracted to organize and
facilitate workshops and proposals on the national, regional and sectoral level in order to address the
results and recommendations of the studies and pilot activities; and (c) the PCU, with the necessary
technical assistance, would integrate the proposals developed during the workshops and the results of



pilot activities into a draft program document. This document would identify priorities for action,
actors, the sequence of activities, the institutions in charge, and proposed budgets.
* Preparation of the National Environmental Management Program: Based on the results of these
studies and consultations, the PCU will prepare a draft document describing the proposed National
Environmental Management Program, identifying key environmental policy reforms and setting
priorities for short-, medium- and long-term activities and investments, by both the public and private
sectors, for improving environmental management. The draft document will be reviewed and
debated in consultations nationwide before being revised and finalized.
Project Component 2 - Developing Pilot Activities - US$ 1.25 million
The objective of this component is to develop and test innovative activities and new mechanisms for
finding solutions to priority environmental problems, including innovative models for natural resources
management, increasing decentralization of environmental functions, public-private sector partnerships,
and creative financing mechanisms. To achieve these objectives, the project would finance carefully
selected activities, and would introduce a system for monitoring and evaluating the results of their
implementation.
This component would allow the PCU to test a selected number of novel approaches to addressing some
of the country's priority environmental problems and to incorporate the lessons learned into the National
Environmental Reform Program. The activities in this component comprise:
* Preparation of Regulations: The PCU, with the assistance of an independent consultant if
necessary, would prepare Regulations for the pilot activities program. These regulations would
describe the processes for approval and administration of activities, the eligibility criteria, the
monitoring system and evaluation criteria, and the process for disseminating the results. The
Advisory Commission, the PCU, and the Bank would review and approve the Regulations.
* Selection of Pilot Activities: A Technical Committee would be established, which would be in
charge of selecting the proposed pilot activities on a competitive basis. The selection criteria would
include: close cooperation with the private sector and NGOs; solution of a key environmental
problem (defined by degree of influence and impacts on human health and the environment);
sustainability; and possibility of replication at the national level. Eligible organizations would
include those from the public and private sectors, NGOs, and combinations of these, with preference
for proposed activities which involve multiple sectors. Grants would be limited to a maximum of
US$75,000, and individual pilot activities would need to be completed within 12 months. Grant
beneficiaries and the Government each would be required to contribute at least 20% of the total cost
of each pilot activity. The beneficiaries' contribution could be in cash or in kind, while the
Government's contribution would be in cash. Examples of areas eligible for financing include:
support for provincial councils with environmental responsibilities; industrial pollution prevention
and control; environmental quality monitoring and control by communities and NGOs; and
incentives for solid waste collection and disposal in marginal communities.
*  Dissemination of information on the Pilot Activities Program: The PCU would prepare and
disseminate infornation on the pilot activities program nationwide in order to encourage the widest
possible participation in the program. For this purpose, the PCU would use all appropriate media
channels (e.g., print press, television, radio, etc.).
* Monitoring of activities: The PCU would establish a monitoring system for tracking progress in
implementation of the pilot activities, including regular reporting, site visits, etc.



*  Assessment of activities: The PCU, with assistance from the Bank, would establish assessment
criteria and would hire a consultant to evaluate each activity. This evaluation would include analysis
of all relevant information in accordance with the agreed criteria and public workshops on identifying
the results and lessons learned.
*  Dissemination of results and their incorporation into the Environmental Reform Program: The
PCU would ensure that the results are widely disseminated and are incorporated into the development
of the National Environmental Management Program.
Project Component 3 - Building Capacity for Project Management and Providing
Technical Training - US$ 0.9 million
The objective of this component is to strengtheni capacity for environmental planning and management in
the Environmental Planning Department of ONAPLAN and other key environmental institutions; ensure
efficient and effective implementation of the project by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); and develop
the needed human resources for the new institutional arrangements that would be established as a result
of the reforms. This component would strengthen institutional capacity for environmental
planning/management and implementation of the project and for future environmental interventions
through the following activities:
*  Establishment of a Project Coordinating Unit. This activity would include the integration of
human resources, purchase of equipment and vehicles, and hiring of key national and foreign
consultants for long-term support in managing and coordinating project activities. To staff the PCU,
ONAPLAN would hire qualified, full-time consultants for the positions of project coordinator,
technical officer, assistant technical officer, and administrative officer. These consultants would
include technical experts on environmental studies. The PCU would work closely with the regular
staff of the Environmental Planning Department throughout the project to ensure that effective
capacity-building takes place. The PCU would be responsible for overall project implementation,
including selection of technical consultants, implementation of a system for monitoring and
evaluating studies and pilot activities, coordination of project activities, and communication with the
World Bank. To assist the PCU, ONAPLAN would contract a qualified independent entity to handle
financial management, procurement, and disbursement matters for the project.
*  Creation of the Advisory Commission: The PCU, in agreement with the Bank, would determine
the size, composition, and functions of the multi-sectoral Advisory Commission. The Commission
would function as a consultative group, providing overall guidance for the project. In this role, the
Commission would establish priorities for selecting studies, ensure close inter-institutional
collaboration on the project, oversee the work of the Technical Committee established to select and
direct the pilot activities, approve the plan-for preparation of the National Environmental
Management Program, participate in identifying key recommendations for the program, and promote
adoption of the environmental policy reforms developed during the project.
*  Strengthening of Institutional Capacity for Environmental Planning and Management: This
activity would include technical training for key personnel (including short technical courses,
seminars, study tours, etc.) and other technical assistance (e.g., bringing in expertise in environmental
assessment and other technical areas) to strengthen capacity in the Environmental Planning
Department of ONAPLAN and in the Govemment in general, with a view to developing the human
resources for the new environmental management authority to be established as a result of expected
institutional reforms. These activities are intended to comprise an initial institutional strengthening



effort to be followed by a larger, more intensive, capacity-building program in possible subseciitent
operations (APL).
* Creation of the Technical Committee: The Advisory Commission would establish a Technical
Committee - also appointed under terms and conditions agreed with the Bank - to direct the
selection, monitoring, and evaluation of the pilot activities under the project. The Technical
Committee, which would be composed of two Government officials (one being the Director of the
Environmental Planning Department of ONAPLAN), two representatives of associations of civil
society organizations, two representatives of private sector associations, and the technical officer
from the PCU, would ensure the technical quality and effective implementation of the pilot activities.
The Committee would review the technical proposals and select the pilot activities according to
criteria established in the Regulations, ensure monitoring and evaluation of the results of the pilot
activities, and recommend the incorporation of appropriate lessons learned from the pilot activities
into the national environmental management program.
* Monitoring and evaluation: The PCU, with the support of specialists contracted for this purpose,
would be in charge of monitoring and supervision as well as final evaluation of the studies and stock-
taking activities to assess lessons learned. Within three months of effectiveness, the PCU would host
a workshop of key stakeholders to identify the key environmental management policy issues meriting
focus during the life of the project. This same workshop would also identify the applied policy
research questions associated with each issue. These policy questions would serve the basis for
identifying pilot activities and orienting background studies. Subsequently, and on a semestral basis,
the PCU would host participatory workshops to measure progress towards answering the policy
questions, and learning of the reforms necessary to address the key policy issues. Each workshop
would be eyaluated at its conclusion to ensure adequate modifications in the consultation process.
* Public Information Campaign: A public information campaign would be organized to inform the
public of activities related to the reform program and the results of the analyses. The print media,
radio, and television, as well as NGO, private sector, and international organization bulletins would
be used. The activity would be carried out by the office of public relations of ONAPLAN with
support from a national specialist hired by the PCU.
*  Establishment of an Information System for Coordination and Planning of Environmental
Management. The PCU would supervise the design and implementation of an information system
within ONAPLAN to facilitate its role in planning and coordination of environmental management
for the Government.



Annex 3
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                       Local           Foreign      Total
--------------- US $ thousands -----------
Support for Policy and Institutional Reform               750             750         1500
Pilot Activities                                         1,250              0         1,250
Project Management and Training                            754            113          867
Total Baseline Cost                                      2,754            863         3,617
Price Contingencies                                      26             27            53
Total Project Cost                                       2,780            890         3,670






Annex 4
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Consulting services and goods for IBRD-financed activities would be procured respectively in
accordance with the provisions of the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995 and revised
in September 1997. The procurement arrangements for the project components are described below and
summarized in the Tables A and B. No works would be financed by the project.
Goods. The project would finance goods, such,as vehicles and equipment (including office
equipment and computers). Although not envisaged, goods estimated to cost more than US$250,000
would be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Specific goods (vehicles
and computers) packages costing less than US$250,000 and more than US$50,000 would be procured
following Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures, among the limited number of foreign suppliers
with service and maintenance facilities in the Dominican Republic. Goods purchased in packages
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each would be procured through international or national shopping.
Consultant Services/Training/Studies. The project would finance technical assistance and
consulting services to prepare studies, conduct public consultations, design information campaigns, and
provide training and seminars. It would also finance contracts for fixed-term consultants in the PCU. It
is expected that ONAPLAN and a qualified technical entity would enter into a management services
contract to assist the PCU with financial management and procurement. This contract would be financed
exclusively by the Government from its own resources, and would be acceptable to the Bank. All Bank-
financed consultant services would be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with Bank
Guidelines identified above. Such consultant contracts would be based on standard forms of contract
issued by the Bank or, as appropriate, on other standard forms acceptable to the Bank.
Pilot Activities All grants to NGOs, private sector institutions, or local government authorities
for conducting pilot activities under the project would be awarded competitively in accordance with the
criteria and procedures outlined in the respective Regulations, which would be acceptable to the Bank.
Individual grants would not exceed US$75,000 equivalent, and standard grant agreements, acceptable to
the Bank, would be used to transfer grant funds to selected implementing entities under conditions that
ensure adequate project implementation. All grants would require a minimum of 20% contribution
respectively from the beneficiary and from the Government. Beneficiary contribution would be either in
cash or in kind, while Government contribution would be in cash.
Bank Prior Review Table B summarizes the thresholds for procurement methods and prior Bank
review. These arrangements would result in prior review by the Bank of an estimated 78 percent of the
value of all Bank-financed contracts.
Disbursement
The proposed IBRD loan would be disbursed over three and one half years with effectiveness
expected in June 1998. The loan Closing Date would be December 31, 2001. IBRD would finance 100
percent of all net-of-tax eligible project expenditures, except those financed by Government counterpart



funds, or beneficiaries of pilot activities. The allocation of loan proceeds is provided in Table C of this
annex.
Special Account. A Special Account in US Dollars may be established at the Central Bank of the
Dominican Republic, with an authorized allocation and initial deposit of US$350,000. This amount is
consistent with expenditures expected during an average four months of project execution. The Special
Account would be replenished at least monthly to assure liquidity of funds, and all replenishment
applications would be accompanied by reconciled statements from the Central Bank showing all
transactions in the Special Account.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiring prior Bank review. For all other expenditures (e.g. all contracts for goods below
US$50,000, all consulting services below US$50,000 with firms and US$30,000 with individuals, all
expenditures for training or operating costs) disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for which supporting documentation would be maintained by the PCU and would
be available for Bank staff review.
Reporting. Beginning in January 1999, the PCU would prepare and forward to the Bank semi-
annual reports (respectively by January 31 and July 31 of each year) on the status of implementation of
the project in the previous January - June or July - Decemcer period as the case may be. By July 31 of
each year, beginning in 1998, the PCU would prepare and forward to the Bank an annual implementation
plan detailing project activities contemplated for the subsequent calendar year, and outlining counterpart
funding requirements. These estimates of counterpart funding requirements would form the basis for
budgetary requests by the respective agencies during the annual formulation of the national budget. Not
later than six months prior to project completion, the Bank, the PCU, and all project beneficiaries would
collaborate in producing (i) an Operational Plan, indicating how Project impact would be sustained; and
(ii) an Implementation Completion Report to assess project effectiveness and its contribution to
environmental management in the country.
Financial Management, Accounting, and Auditing. Consistent with the need for swift project
startup and in recognition of the relative unfamiliarity by ONAPLAN's staff with the Bank's operating
procedures and financial management standards, financial operations of the PCU, including those for
accounting and auditing by independent chartered accountant, would be outsourced to a competent entity
familiar with Bank procedures and norms. Such entity would maintain separate project accounts on
behalf of the PCU in accordance with accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank, and
would consolidate all project records to prepare financial reports, which would reflect, inter alia,
expenditures under pilot activities financed by the project. Supporting documentation would be kept by
the technical entity on behalf of the PCU for at least one year after the final disbursement of funds for the
project.
Project accounts maintained on behalf of the PCU would be audited annually by independent
chartered auditors acceptable to the Bank. No later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, the
PCU would submit to the Bank copies of audit reports containing separate auditors' opinions on project
accounts, SOEs, and the Special Account.
The Project Operating Manual would include detailed terms of reference for the auditors,
following the guidelines included in the World Bank's Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditinig
Handbook.



Annex 4, Table A
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB        Other      N.B.F
1. Goods
Vehicles and office                                 1252                      125
equipment                                           (125)                   (125)
2. Services
(a) Consultant services and                        1,5003                   1,500
studies                                        (1,500)                  (1,500)
(b) Project unit consultants                        300                      300
(300)                   (300)
(c) Grants for Pilot Activities                    1,2504                   1,250
(750)                    (750)
(d) Management services                                        1255           125
contract for project                                         (0)           (0)
administration
3. Operating Costs                                     260                      260
(215)                    (215)
4. Training                                            1106                     110
(110)                    (110)
Total                                                3,545        125         3,670
(3,000)      (0)         (3,000)
Notes:
1. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
2. LIB, national or international shopping procedures.
3. Various selection methods (depending upon level of effort and service type) in accordance with
Consultants' Guidelines (see Table B).
4. Grants to be awarded competitively to beneficiaries following procedures in Regulations
acceptable to the Bank.
5. Government will finance contracts for project administration (financial management and
procurement services).
6. Travel, subsistence, and course fees for selected candidates



Annex 4, Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                             US $ thousands
1. Goods                     >250                  ICB                 allJO
50-250         LIB (for vehicles and      all/0
computers)
<50             International and        None
National Shopping
2. Services (including
management
services contracts)
(a) Consulting            >200                  QCBS                all/0
Firms
50 to 200         QCBS/QBS/Fixed           all/1,400
Budget
<50                Consultant      review of TORs only*
Qualifications
(b) Individuals            >30          According to Section V    all/200
of Consultants'
Guidelines
<30          According to Section V  review of TORs only*
of Consultants'
Guidelines
(c) Pilot Activities       <75               Procedures in          all/1,250
Regulations
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                       2,850
* Other steps in selection process are exempted from prior review, except in the following cases:
single source selection of firms, assigmnents of a critical nature, and amendments raising original
contract value above the thresholds.



Annex 4, Table C
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount            Financing Percentage
(US$ thousands)
1. Goods                               125                  100 (for foreign expenditures)
80 (for local expenditures)
2. Consultant Services               1,800                  100
3. Pilot Activities                    750                   75 of approved grant amountl
4. Operating Costs                     180                  802
5. Training                             92                  100
6. Unallocated                          53
Total                                3,000
Notes:
1. For pilot activities (i.e. micro-projects selected on a competitive basis): (i) Beneficiaries
would be expected to contribute (in kind or in cash) co-financing of at least 20% of the cost
of each pilot activity, for an aggregate amount of US$250,000 and; (ii) the Government will
provide co-financing equivalent to at least 20% of the cost of each pilot activity, for an
aggregate amount of US$250,000.
2. Since it is not intended that the PCU be institutionalized, operating costs would be financed at
a constant rate of 80%.






Annex 5
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned              Actual
(At final stage)
$126,000             $112,200
B. Project Sche'dule                             Planned              Actual
(At final stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      5 months
First Bank mission (identification)              9/7/1997             9/7/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     2/18/1998            2/22/1998
Negotiations                                    2/23/1998            2/24/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   6/30/1998               n/a
Prepared by: ONAPLAN
Preparation assistance: n/a
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name:                                     Specialty:
Maria Donoso Clark                        LCSES Sector Leader / Co-Task Manager
T. Anderson White                         Co-Task Manager, Natural Resources
Management Specialist
David M. Colbert                          Institutional Specialist
Christopher Barham                        Operations Specialist
Daniel Moreau                             Senior Agriculturist
Daniele Perrot-Maitre                     Consultant
Bekir Onursal                             Environmental Specialist
David Varela                              Counsel
Charles di Leva                           Environmental Lawyer
Michael Fowler                            Disbursement Officer
John Redwood                              Peer Reviewer
Efraim Jimenez                            Senior Procurement Specialist



Annex 6
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Assistance Strategy for the Dominican Republic, April 4th 1995, Report No. 14260-DO
Dominican Republic Environmental Issues Paper, July 13 1993, Report No. 1813-DO, Final
Version
Letter from Mr. Selman (STP) requesting the project
Bank letter with comments on Environmental Law
BTO: Identification Mission, September 15, 1997
BTO: Preparation Mission, December 19, 1997
Letter from Mr. Camilo (ONAPLAN) formally constituting the Project Coordination Unit and
designating Dr. Ottenwalder as Coordinator, February 13, 1998.
Project Implementation Plan submitted by ONAPLAN including a description of project
objectives, components, and implementation arrangements, a chronogram of activities
and terms of reference for Project Coordinator and Administrative Officer, February 13,
1998.
C. Other
Anteproyecto de la Ley de Protecci6n y Calidad Ambiental, Santo Domingo, Republica
Dominicana, 1993
*Including electronic files.



Annex 7
Status of Bank Group Operations in Dominican Republic
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USs Millions                 'and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                           IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 24
Active Loans
DO-PE-7020    IBRD 38750  1995  GOVERNMENT OF DR                    IRRIG LAND & WATERSH         28.00        0.00            0.00         27.70       7.67       0.00       S             U
DO-PE-35494   IBRD 39510  1996  GOV'T OF DOMINICAN R                BASIC EDUCATION              37.00        0.00            0.00          36.40     13.00       0.00       S             S
DO-PE-35722   IBRD 41270  1997  GOV'T. OF DON. REP.                 NATIONAL HWY. PROJ.          75.00        0.00            0.00         75.00      16.34       1.00       S             S
DO-PE-7015    IBRD 42720  1998                                      PROV.HEALTH SERV.PRJ         30.00        0.00            0.00         30.00       0.00       0.00
Total                                                                                           170.00        0.00            0.00        169.10      37.01       1.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                     .90             541.48               542.38
of which has been repaid:                   0.00              310.73              310.73
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 170.00              235.26               405.26
Amount sold                      :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              169.10                 4.51              173.61
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Dominican Republic
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolo
As of 31-Dec-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quad   Partic
1991/94               DTC                    5.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Hotel Flamenco         4.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.41    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96               Smith-Enron           23.56    0.00    5.89   38.95   23.56    0.00    5.89   38.95
Total Portfolio:                 33.45    0.00    5.89   38.95   33.45    0.00    5.89   38.95
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Eauitv QOj Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Anmex 8
Country at a Glance
Dominican Republic at a glance                                                                8128197
Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Dominican -America  middle-
Republic   & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond
Population mid-1996 (Millions)                        7.9       485-   1,125
GNP percapita 1996(1US$)    15570                             3     -  750                  Life expectancy
(GNP 1996 (billions US$)                            12.'  1,799  -1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (t)                                        1.8                         G 
.Lab~or f0rce ()                                      G.         .                 e                              romar
Mostrecent estimate (latest year ava lable since 18g )                            capita                     enrollment
Poverto. headcount i6dex (% ot population)            21
Urban populafofn (Ye Ot totai popplafion)              65 ;      74       58
Ute expectancy at birth (yOears)l 7-                             6g..   67:
Intantrmortality (per 1,00 IiiYe birts)               37         37       41      Access to safe water
Child malnutrition o% of children under 5) 10    - ' 
Access-to sate water(% otpopulation)                   79       '80       78
illiteracy-(% 0o populat ion age 15--)                 18         3 .
Gross pnmary enrollment(%{Y ot school-age population) - 03    '10   -14               -             Rpi
Male                      :                        '103  .              '05              Lower-niddle-income group
Female                                              104 '.             101 -   -
KEY ECONOMIC RATOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
197s    1985       1995 .   996-
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                           3.6-- 4.'         120       13.1
Gross domestic investrmntGDP       '        24.5   - 20.4      24.2    22.6               Openness ot economy
Exportsoftgoodsandservices/GQP              27.7    29.5       27.4     26.1:
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  22.2    15.1       24.4     19.S
Gross national savings/GDP                  20.2    15.9       27.8:    2.7
Current account balance/GDP:                 -2.Q    , 4.5  -   2.0     -02
Interest payments/GDP                        0.9 3:    ..1      1.9      1.4      Savings       '       '    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              18.7    78.0       34.6     31.4 -
Total debt service/exports                  10.4  :'22.5       16.6     14.1'
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       --      32.0
Present value of debt/exports ----     .                       93                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth;                                                                 -  Dominican Republic
.GOP   .3-,'5- -:                 -'     3.5 as  E   4.7. -.'  .7.0  ::- 3.0. -       -wLower-rn/dte-income group
GNP-per capita                      0.4 O    Z2       2.9   -3.3         1.7
Exports of goods and services       7.2      R.2      3.3       4.9      3.6   -                                       . .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1995     1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (Y.)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 21.5    19.7       15.4     15.3      40
Industry                                    31.6    25.8       29.0     28.1
Manufacturing                              ?0.9    13.6       17.5     17.0     20
Services                                    46.9     54.5      55.6     56.5      o
.     K1--7   92   93       95   96
Private consumption                         71.6    76.9       68.9     73.7    -20
General govemment consumption                6.2      8.0       6.7      6.8                   GDI   -0  GDP
Imports of goods and services               30.0    34.8       27.2     29.5   1
1975-85  1986-96     1995     1996
(average annual growth,                                                          Growth rates of exports and imports (%/.)
Agriculture                                  3.3      0.7       1.2      9.6      30s.
Industry                                     2.4      1.0       1.5      7.0      20
Manufacturing                              2.3      1.5        1.5      2.9
Services                                     4.2      5.5       6.9      6.5     10
Private consumption                          3.3      2.8       6.5      9.8             91   92          94   ss   s
General govemment consumption               11.0      0.0      -1.6      5.8    -z                        9
Gross domestic investment                   -0.2      2.5       0.0      1.5    -20
Imports of goods and services                4.6      3.8       2.2      8.4                   Expclts    O  Impons
Gross national product                       2.7      4.2       4.8      4.9                   E       -     o
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators. in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Dominican Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation (%/e)
(% change)                                                                          so
Consumer prices                               14.5     37.5       12.4       6.5    so
Implicit GDP deflator                         17.0     38.9       12.5       5.0    40. 
Govemment finance                                                                   20
(% of GDP)                                                                           0
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       16.6      15.2            91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                           ..      ..        6.8       5.0              -     GDP clef.     -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..        0.9      -1.5
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..      738       743       718      4,000
Sugar                                          ..     159        132       169
Gold                                          *-      104         45       49      3000
Manufactures
Total imports (cifl                                   1,286      2,786    3,176      2,000            [fl
Food                                          ..       48         ..                           [U(Ij
Fuel and energy                                       507        606      777         000 __    ___    _   __
Capital goods                                  ..     217         ..
Export pnce index (1987=100)                     ..      ,.       125       118            90  91   92   93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       ,.       145       153                 QExports   Unimports
Terms ot tradle (1987=100)                       ..      ..         86       78
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Current account balance to GOP ratlo (%)
Exports of goods and services                1,010    1,323      3,258    3,424
Imports of goods and services                1,009    1,560      3,419    3,871
Resource balance                                 1     -238       -161     -447      2
Net income                                    -113     -319      -461      -449      0 
Net current transfers                          39      356        869       867    -2 - .     1   92  93  94  99  96
Current account balance,                                                            ,4
before official capital transfers            -73     -200        247       -29
Financing items (net)                          66      291       -133        21
Changes in net reserves                          7      -90      -114         8     .a
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)            125     346        702       735
Conversion rate (loca1/US$)                    1.0      3.1       13.3      13.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          673    3,502       4,171    4,119
IBRO                                         20      152        283       244                  G       A
IDA                                           8       21         17        17      Compo24i4o8 ota      109fmill.us$)
Total debt service                             108      302       540       482
IBRD                                          4       22         60        56            F                      D
IDA                                           0        0          1         1          632.3                   785
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               9       97         49        35
Official creditors                           34      146        -85       -41
Private creditors                            61       20        -24       -23
Foreign direct investment                    64       36        199       140                          E
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0         0                         1812
World Bank program
Commitments                                   8       42         28        37      A - IBRD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                 3       17         36        18      B-IDA    D-Othermutitateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                          2       10         40        38      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0        7          -5      -19
Interest payments                             2        12        21        19
Net transfers                                 -1      -5        -26       -39
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/28/97



