Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4293-DO
Loan Agreement
(National Environmental Policy Reform Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 9, 1998  
LOAN NUMBER 4293-DO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 9, 1998, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by means of Law No. 55 of 1965 (Law No. 55), the 
Borrower established Oficina Nacional de Planificación (ONAPLAN), within 
the Technical Secretariat to the Presidency, such office to be responsible 
for the formulation of an environmental policy, and for the preparation and 
execution of programs and projects for the protection and conservation of 
the environment; 
(B) by means of Presidential Decree No. 484 of 1996 (Decree No. 
484-96) the Borrower established the Commission for the Reform and 
Modernization of the State, such Commission to be responsible for 
developing a global framework and action plan to coordinate and oversee the 
reform and modernization efforts of the Borrower’s departments and 
agencies, and ensure their commitment to policy reforms;
(C)
the Bank has received a letter dated February 24, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
the reform of the Borrower’s environmental sector (the Environmental Policy 
Reform Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of 
Page  2
such Program; and
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with the modification set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Section 9.07(c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months prior to the Closing Date, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived or to be derived from it, the performance of the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Work Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 
3.07 of this Agreement;
(b)
“Advisory Commission” means the commission referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
“Central Bank” means the Borrower’s central bank (Banco Central 
de la República Dominicana);
(d)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
(e)
“Operating Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.09 
(a) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Participating Entity” means any public or private entity active 
in environmental matters in the territory of the Borrower to which the 
Borrower, through ONAPLAN, proposes to make or has made a Pilot Subgrant in 
accordance with the Subproject Regulations (both as hereinafter defined);
(g)
“Performance Monitoring Indicators” means the Project’s 
performance monitoring indicators set forth in the letter of even date 
herewith from the Borrower to the Bank;
(h)
“Peso” means the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
“Pilot Subgrant” means a subgrant made or proposed to be made by 
the Borrower, through ONAPLAN, partially financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan to a Participating Entity for a Pilot Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined);
Page  3
(j)
“Pilot Subproject” means any specific pilot activity under Part 
B of the Project to be carried out by a Participating Entity utilizing the 
proceeds of a Pilot Subgrant;
(k)
“Project Coordinating Unit” means the unit referred to in 
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Coordinator” means the coordinator referred to in 
Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement;
(m)
“Subproject Regulations” means the regulations referred to in 
paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(o)
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; and
(p)
“Technical Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 
3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to three million Dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding 
the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
single currency for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or 
plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by 
it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by 
the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and 
of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable 
to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the 
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not 
less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the 
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Project Coordinator is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through ONAPLAN, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, financial, environmental, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operating 
Manual and the applicable Annual Work Plan, with due regard to the 
Performance Monitoring Indicators.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual 
budgets during Project implementation and make available promptly as needed 
in Pesos, the counterpart funds required for Project implementation.
(d)
Not later than thirty days after the Effective Date, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the 
Project, an account in a bank acceptable to the Bank 
and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, for purposes of depositing the counterpart funds 
referred to in paragraph (c) above; and
(ii)
make an initial deposit of $200,000 equivalent in the 
account referred to in subparagraph (i) above.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Not later than three months after the Effective 
Date, the Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain at all times 
until completion of the Project, an advisory commission with membership 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, such commission to be 
responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)
providing overall guidance on Project implementation;
(ii)
ensuring close inter-institutional coordination among 
the Borrower’s agencies involved in environmental 
matters;
(iii)
reviewing of, and commenting on, plans for 
environmental technical studies and policy reform;
(iv)
advising ONAPLAN on the selection of the Technical 
Committee and overseeing such Committee’s work;
(v)
disseminating Project findings through a national 
policy debate; and
(vi)
promoting the adoption of the environmental policy 
reforms developed under the Project.
(b)
Not later than six months after the Effective Date, the 
Borrower, through ONAPLAN, shall establish and thereafter maintain until 
Page  6
completion of the Project a technical committee, with membership structure 
and functions satisfactory to the Bank, such committee to be responsible, 
inter alia, for:
(i)
identifying key policy issues to be addressed by Pilot 
Subprojects;
(ii)
screening proposals of Pilot Subprojects in order to 
ensure their environmental soundness;
(iii)
selecting Pilot Subprojects in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the Subproject Regulations;
(iv)
monitoring and evaluating the findings of the Pilot 
Subprojects; and 
(v)
determining key policy lessons for the purposes of 
environmental policy reform.
(c)
The Borrower shall establish, within ONAPLAN and with the 
assistance of the Advisory Commission, and thereafter maintain until 
completion of the Project, a project coordinating unit with functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, such unit to be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)
coordinating and monitoring overall Project 
implementation; 
(ii)
preparing the reports, manual and plans referred to in 
Sections 3.06 through 3.09 of this Agreement; 
(iii)
overseeing the procurement of the goods and services to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, other than 
the goods and services required for Pilot Subprojects;
(iv)
administering the withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan and related records, accounts and audits,
all pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Coordinating Unit is, 
at all times during the execution of the Project, headed by a Project 
coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through ONAPLAN, shall enter into 
agreements with Participating Entities for the purposes of the carrying out 
of Pilot Subprojects in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subproject 
Agreement in such manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and 
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall retain, until completion of the 
Project, a technical entity with qualifications and experience satisfactory 
to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
purposes of:
(i)
assisting the Project Coordinating Unit in all 
procurement, disbursement and financial management 
activities required under the Project; and 
Page  7
(ii)
training such Unit's staff on procurement and 
disbursement matters relevant for the Project.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year of 
Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, not later than February 28 and August 31 
of each year, as the case may be, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the reports referred to in subparagraph (b) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on 
the matter.
Section 3.07. (a) In conjunction with the progress report to be 
furnished to the Bank not later than July 31 of each year, as provided in 
Section 3.06(b) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, an annual work plan for the following calendar year, 
in a format satisfactory to the Bank, such plan to include:
(i)
a description of the Project’s annual specific targets;
(ii)
the schedule of the tasks associated with each such 
target;
(iii)
terms of reference for all the tasks so scheduled;
(iv)
the resources required to complete such tasks, 
including required counterpart funding;
(v)
key Project execution benchmarks; and
(vi)
quality and impact indicators of the Project’s outputs.
(b)
Upon the Bank’s approval, the Borrower shall carry out each such 
Annual Work Plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months prior to the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.09.  (a) (i) Not later than three months after the Effective 
Date, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for the Bank’s 
review and approval, a draft operating manual, such manual to set forth the 
guidelines for Project implementation, as well as the administrative, 
Page  8
budgetary and procurement procedures to be followed by ONAPLAN; and (ii) 
promptly after Bank’s approval, the Borrower, through ONAPLAN, shall adopt 
and thereafter apply until completion of the Project such Operating Manual.
(b)
Not later than six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for the Bank’s review and approval 
the action plan referred to in Part A.2 (a) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such Year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Page  9
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
that as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Environmental Policy Reform Program or a 
significant part thereof will be carried out; and
(b)
that Law No. 55 or Decree No. 484-96 or the Operating Manual or 
the Subproject Regulations or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the Borrower’s ability to carry out the Project or 
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Project Coordinating Unit shall have been established 
and the Project Coordinator shall have been appointed;
(b)
that the technical entity referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement shall have been hired by the Borrower, through ONAPLAN; and
(c)
that terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have 
been prepared by the Borrower, through ONAPLAN, for the purposes of Part 
A.1(a) of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date June 9, 1998 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, 
the Secretario Técnico de la Presidencia is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes 
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia
Palacio Nacional
Avenida México
Santo Domingo
República Dominicana
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  10
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Santo Domingo de Guzmán, Dominican Republic, as 
of the day and year first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Juan Temístocles Montás
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
President
Page  11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan 
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   125,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants' services
 1,800,000
100%
(3)
Training
    92,000
100%
(4)
Operating Costs
   180,000
80%
(5)
Pilot Subprojecta
   750,000
75% of each Pilot
Subgrant
(6)
Unallocated
    53,000
TOTAL
 3,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower;
(c)
“Training” means expenditures incurred for: (i) domestic and 
international travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; and (ii) 
training materials; and
(d)
“Operating Costs” means expenditures for the operation of the 
Project Coordinating Unit, the Advisory Commission and the Technical 
Committee, including: (i) office supplies; (ii) services rendered by public 
utilities; (iii) rental of office space; and (iv) domestic and 
international travel and per diems of their personnel, required for the 
execution of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
any Pilot Subproject unless regulations satisfactory to the 
Bank, have been issued by the Borrower, through ONAPLAN, such regulations 
to contain adequate provisions for preparing and implementing Pilot 
Subprojects, including the procedures for screening their environmental 
soundness.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
Page  12
the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or less;
(b)
services of consulting firms under contracts costing $50,000 
equivalent or less;
(c)
services of individual consultants under contracts costing 
$30,000 equivalent or less; and
(d)
Training and Operating Costs.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish the basis for improved 
environmental management in the territory of the Borrower by defining 
required policy reforms and preparing a national environmental management 
program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time 
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Policy and Institutional Reform
1.
Background Studies:
(a)
Diagnosis of environmental impacts, and review of the legal, 
fiscal and institutional framework for environmental management in the 
territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Review of priority sectoral environmental issues in the 
territory of the Borrower, including sector assessments, pollutants 
inventories, management alternatives and sectoral incentives, in areas like 
industry, tourism, mining, energy, agriculture, infrastructure and health.
(c)
Drafting of reform proposals for the legal, fiscal and 
institutional framework for environmental management in the territory of 
the Borrower, on the basis of the findings and recommendations of the 
studies under Parts A.1(a) and A.1(b) of the Project.
(d)
Development of technical standards, regulations and processes in 
matters like environmental assessments, licensing procedures, and control 
mechanisms for the implementation of an environmental management program.
2.
Public Consultation:
(a)
Preparation of an action plan to ensure the active participation 
of the public and private sectors in the development of the Borrower’s 
environmental management program.
(b)
Organization and facilitation of workshops at the national, 
regional and sectoral level to discuss the findings and recommendations of 
the studies under Part A.1 of the Project and the results of the Pilot 
Subprojects.
3.
National Environmental Management Program
Preparation of a national environmental management program on the 
basis of the proposals developed during the workshops under Part A.2 (b) of 
the Project, such program to include:
(a)
identification of key environmental policy reforms; and
Page  13
(b)
determination of priorities for short-, medium- and long-term 
activities and investments by the public and private sectors.
Part B:
Pilot Subprojects
Development and testing of innovative approaches and mechanisms to 
address priority environmental issues in the territory of the Borrower, 
through the carrying out of  activities in areas like:
1.
decentralization of environmental management responsibilities;
2.
industrial pollution prevention and control;
3.
environmental quality monitoring and control by communities and 
non-governmental organizations; and
4.
incentives for solid waste collection and disposal in marginal 
communities.
Part C:
Project Management and Training
Strengthening of the capacity for environmental planning and 
management of ONAPLAN and development of the human resources required for 
new institutional arrangements, through:
1.
provision of technical assistance for the establishment and operation 
of the Advisory Commission, the Technical Committee and the Project 
Coordinating Unit;
2.
provision of training to key personnel of ONAPLAN and other agencies of 
the Borrower involved in environmental matters, including short technical 
courses, seminars and study tours;
3.
carrying out of a public information campaigns to disseminate the 
results of activities under the Project; and
4.
establishment and operation of information systems for coordination and 
planning of environmental management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each October 15 and April 15
beginning October 15, 2003
through April 15, 2015
    125,000
TOTAL
3,000,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  15
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower .
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 but more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract and goods which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost 
thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines, from suppliers with service 
facilities in the territory of the Borrower.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $125,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost more than 
$50,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published 
by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
Page  16
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 
3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The short list of consultants for services for public consultation or 
public management and training under Parts A.2 and C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for studies under Parts A.1 (c) and (d) and for public 
consultation under Part A.2 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for studies under Parts A.1 (c) and (d) of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for public consultation under Part A.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. 
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $50,000, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $30,000, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.
Page  17
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $350,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  18
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank 
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  19
SCHEDULE 6
Subproject Agreements
1.
With regard to any proposed Pilot Subproject, and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)
an assessment of the Participating Entity’s implementation 
capacity;
(b)
an appraisal of the proposed Pilot Subproject, including:
(i)
a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii)
an evaluation of the compliance with the selection 
criteria set forth in the Subproject Regulations with 
regard to:
(A)
impact on human health and the environment;
(B)
cooperation between the public and private sectors; 
and
(C)
sustainability and possibility of replication; 
(c)
the specific terms and conditions of the Subproject Agreements, 
including: 
(i)
the transfer of part of the proceeds of the Loan, on a 
grant basis, to the Participating Entity for the 
financing of the proposed Pilot Subproject, up to a 
maximum amount equivalent to $75,000;
(ii)
the completion of the Pilot Subproject not later than 
twelve months after the execution of the Subproject 
Agreement; and
(iii)
the Participating Entity’s obligation to contribute at 
least 20% of the total cost of the Pilot Subproject, in 
cash or in kind; and 
(iv)
ONAPLAN’s obligation to contribute at least 20% of the 
total cost of the Pilot Subproject, out of counterpart 
funds; and
(d)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.
Subproject Agreements shall be entered into on terms whereby ONAPLAN 
shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank, including the right to:
(a)
require the Participating Entity to carry out and operate the 
Pilot Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate managerial, administrative, financial, environmental and 
technical standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that the goods and consultants’ services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Pilot Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, 
if the Bank shall so request, the goods included in the Pilot Subproject, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
Page  20
(d)
require that: (i) the Participating Entity shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and 
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound practice; and (ii) 
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover 
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable to the 
Participating Entity to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Participating Entity and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Pilot Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Entity to 
receive the outstanding amount of the proceeds of the Loan to be 
transferred to such Entity upon failure by such Entity to perform any of 
its obligations under the corresponding Subproject Agreement.
