Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 
25852
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(
SCL-42930
)
ON 
A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF 
US$3.00 MILLION
TO 
THE 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR 
 A 
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY REFORM PROJECT
04/30/2003
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their 
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 
October 31, 2002
)
Currency Unit 
 =
Peso
  
1 Peso
 =
US$  
0.05 
US$ 
1.00
 =
19.14
FISCAL YEAR
January 1
     
December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS 
Country Assistance Strategy
GoDR
Government of the Dominican Republic
ICB
International Competitive Bidding
INPRA
Instituto Nacional de Proteccion Ambiental
 (National Institute for Environmental 
Protection) 
LIL
Learning and Innovation Loan
NBF
Not Bank Financed
NCB
National Competitive Bidding
NEAP
National Environmental Action Plan
NEMP
National Environmental Management Program 
NGO
Non Governmental Organization
ONAPLAN
Oficina Nacional de Planificacion
 (National Planning Office)
PAD
Project Appraisal Document
PNGA
Programa Nacional de Gestion Ambiental
PCU
Project Coordinating Unit
QAG
Quality Assurance Group
SMRN
Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales 
(Environmental Secretariat)
SOE
Statement of Expenditures
TORs 
Terms of Reference
UN
United Nations
UNDP
United Nations Development Program
Vice President: 
David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:
Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager/Director:
John Redwood 
 
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
Renan A. Poveda
 
Page  3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
11
6. Sustainability
12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
13
8. Lessons Learned
16
9. Partner Comments
17
10. Additional Information
17
Annex 1.  Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
18
Annex 2.  Project Costs and Financing
21
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
23
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs
24
Annex 5.  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
26
Annex 6.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
27
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents
28
Annex 
8.  Borrower's Contribution
 
29
Annex 
9.  Summary of Pilot Activities
34
Annex 
10.  List of Capacity Building Activities Financed by the Project 
40
 
Page  4
Project ID:
 
P035733
 
Project Name:
 
National Environmental Policy 
Reform Project
Team Leader:
 
Renan Alberto Poveda
TL Unit:
 
LCSEN
ICR Type:
 
Core ICR
Report Date: 
May 5, 2003
1.  Project Data
Name:
National Environmental Policy Reform Project
L/C/TF Number:
SCL-42930
Country
/
Department
:
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Region:
Latin America and 
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector
:
Central government administration (75%); 
Sub-national government administration (13%); 
Other social services (12%)
KEY DATES
Original
Revised/Actual
PCD:
02/05/1998
Effective:
06/09/1998
09/30/1998
Appraisal:
02/24/1998
MTR:
08/09/1999
10/22/2000
Approval:
03/06/1998
Closing:
12/31/2001
10/31/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency
:
GOVERNMENT/Oficina Nacional de Planificacion (ONAPLAN) and Secretaria 
de Estado de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SMRN)
Other Partners:
STAFF
Current
At Appraisal
Vice President:
David de Ferranti
Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager
:
Caroline D. Anstey
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:
John Redwood
Maritta Kock-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:
Renan A. Poveda
Maria Donoso Clark & Andy White
ICR Primary Author:
Renan A. Poveda; M. Rosa Puech 
& Jackson Morrill
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly 
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:
S
Sustainability:
HL
Institutional Development Impact:
H
Bank Performance:
S
Borrower Performance:
S
QAG (if available)
ICR
Quality at Entry:
S
S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
No
Page  5
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1
Original Objective:
The development objective of the project was to establish the basis for improved environmental
 
management, by defining environmental policy reforms and elaborating a National Environmental
 
Management Program (NEMP) through a learning and participatory process, including developing a fiscal 
and regulatory framework and testing innovative approaches to addressing key environmental problems.  
The project was envisioned as the first phase of a longer-term effort to improve environmental management 
that could eventually be supported by an Adaptable Program Loan.
3.2
Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the project's objectives.
3.3
Original Components:
Total project costs were estimated at US$3.6 million (US$3.0 million loan and a Government contribution 
of US$0.6 million). The project comprised three main components:  
Component 1: Supporting Policy and Institutional Reform
 (US$1.5 million or 41% of total cost). The
 
component would finance: (i) key background studies; (ii) a process of national-level public debate on the
 
proposed reforms; and (iii) the preparation and publication of the NEMP. 
Component 2: Developing Pilot Activities 
(US$1.25 million or 34% of total cost). This component would 
support the development and testing of innovative activities and new mechanisms for finding solutions to
 
priority environmental policy problems, including innovative models for natural resource management,
 
increased decentralization of environmental functions, public-private sector partnerships and creative
 
financing mechanisms for sustainable environmental management. This component would finance: (i) on a 
cost-sharing basis, a program of grants to non-governmental organizations and municipalities to carry out 
the activities, and; (ii) a system for monitoring and evaluating the results of implementation and the
 
integration of its main results into the NEMP.     
Component 3: Building Capacity for Project Management and Providing Technical Training
 (US$0.9 
million or 25% of total cost). This component would strengthen capacity for environmental planning and
 
management in the Environmental Planning Department of the National Planning Office (ONAPLAN) and 
other key environmental agencies as appropriate; ensure efficient and effective project implementation by
 
the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); and develop the needed human resources for the institutional
 
arrangements resulting from the reforms. To achieve this, the component would finance the establishment 
of the PCU, including consulting services, office equipment, training and incremental operating costs.
3.4
Revised Components:
While none of the components were formally revised, the Bank worked with technical staff of the new 
Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (
Secretaría de Estado de Medio Ambiente y Recursos 
Naturales -
 SMRN) created by law on August 18, 2000, to shift the focus of Components 1 and 3 to better 
meet the needs of this institution.  In particular: (i) the key technical studies (component 1) were adjusted to 
accommodate the new institutional and legal framework for environmental management; (ii) capacity 
building activities (component 3) shifted to meet the needs of SMRN's technical staff; and (iii) the project’s 
technical advisory committee's composition was adjusted in response to SMRN's creation.  In addition, 
shortcomings in the Environmental Diagnostic study and the National Environmental Management Plan 
(NEMP) led the Bank and the PCU to agree to finance the preparation of an 
Analytical Framework and 
Strategic Plan for Environmental Management
 (also known as the “Toolkit”) not envisioned in the original 
- 2 -
Page  6
Component 1.  The Toolkit was designed to integrate and synthesize the data of the two studies into a more 
user-friendly policymaking tool for SMRN.
3.5
Quality at Entry:
SATISFACTORY.
 The project responded to a request in 1997 from the Government for assistance in
 
coordinating, consolidating and improving environmental management.  Extensive discussions between the
 
Bank and Government counterparts on the project's potential development objectives helped to streamline
 
project preparation, and ultimately influenced the choice of the Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)
 
approach.  The Government, Bank and UNDP, who provided support in project preparation, sought to
 
align the project with international and regional priorities as established in the UN Conference on Human
 
Development (Rio de Janeiro 1992), as well as with Government priorities for ongoing efforts to reform
 
and modernize the public sector. The project supported the CAS objectives (April 1995) and benefited from 
the limited Bank sector work in existence at the time (Dominican Republic Environmental Issues Paper.
 
July, 1993. Report N. 1813-DO). 
The decision to use the LIL approach was appropriate, given the uncertain political context, limited
 
national environmental management capacity and coordination, and the Bank's relative lack of awareness of 
the key players and institutions in the country at the time. The project’s development objectives were clear 
and relevant to the country's sector priorities and development needs.  Project design adequately supported 
ongoing Government efforts to build consensus on a consolidated and improved environmental management 
framework through a well-designed, transparent participatory process.  However, considering the
 
somewhat limited available resources and overall Borrower’s capacity, project design was too ambitious in 
the scope of its objectives and the timeframe for the delivery of products. 
The project was assessed as satisfactory by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) for its quality at 
entry, although the report highlighted the country's historically low disbursement rate and the political risks 
associated with the location of the PCU outside of ONAPLAN’s physical space as potential risks or
 
weaknesses of the project.  While both of these issues materialized over the life of the project, the PCU and 
the Bank worked diligently, and fairly successfully, to mitigate the impact of these risks on the successful 
completion of project activities.
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1  
Outcome/achievement of objective:
The performance indicators provided in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the achievement of the 
project’s objective do not adequately measure project outcomes, but rather measure the achievement of
 
project outputs.  Therefore, to better reflect the achievements of the objective of the project in this report, 
the original PAD indicators have been adjusted to facilitate an analysis from a development outcome
 
perspective (See Annex I for the original list of outcome indicators).  
The achievement of the project objective is rated 
[Satisfactory]
 based on the following, refined outcomes:
1)
Key environmental policy issues identified by stakeholders
, 
and
 
progress towards learning how 
to address them achieved through a participatory process (Highly Satisfactory)
.  The lack of an 
appropriate legal and institutional framework was the key environmental policy constraint in the 
Dominican Republic, and the project was very successful in identifying and addressing it.  Between 
1998-2000, the project supported a series of broad-based consensus building activities to 
consolidate and reform the organizational structure in place for environmental management, which 
at the time included more than twenty different poorly coordinated public institutions with 
- 3 -
Page  7
overlapping responsibilities as well as gaps in managing key environmental issues.  Consultations 
and debate also focused on the country’s outdated and inadequate environmental laws and 
regulations, identifying the need to build a consolidated and modern legal framework to improve 
environmental management. 
Through these consultations and discussions, the project played an important, supportive role in
 
building the necessary consensus that ultimately facilitated the passage of the Environmental
 
Framework Law and the creation of SMRN in August of 2000.  The Framework Law reflects a
 
broad consensus reached within the country on key policy issues and basic principles (e.g. polluter 
pays principle, payment for environmental services, etc.) and the methods and tools to be used to
 
address them (e.g. effluent limits, environmental permits, etc.).  Having thereby achieved this
 
significant development outcome midway through the project, the Bank and the PCU continued to 
make further progress in addressing environmental priority issues laid out in the Framework Law
 
through capacity building and technical assistance activities for the new Ministry, including such
 
topics as: (i) environmental impact assessment; (ii) strategic environmental evaluations; (iii)
 
forestry policy formulation; (iv) watershed conservation and management; (v) and environmental
 
audits, among others.  
2)
 
Identification of Pilot Activities to address key issues and their successful completion 
(Satisfactory).  
The project was successful in selecting and completing eight pilot projects that 
tested innovative methods for addressing key issues for local environmental management, including 
solid waste management, partnerships for protected areas management, and environmental 
information dissemination and education.  Pilot teams composed of members of local government, 
civil society and the private sector worked effectively together, demonstrating the possibility of 
leveraging these partnerships to address local environmental issues.  The pilot projects: (i) 
demonstrated the willingness and capacity of local communities and civil society groups to manage 
local environmental problems; (ii) provided insights on the potential weaknesses of decentralized 
environmental management; and (iii) proved to be a powerful tool for prioritization of local 
environmental management actions, based on a demand-driven, participatory process that reflected 
the variable needs, capacities and diversity of environmental challenges.  These three lessons drawn 
from the pilots provide potentially useful solutions to the challenges of environmental management 
in the Dominican Republic (which include a wide range of environmental problems that need to be 
addressed, the still limited capacity of the newly created SMRN, and the relative small size of the 
public sector).
3)
The development of a framework for addressing key environmental problems, through the 
preparation of background studies, sector studies and a National Environmental Management 
Program (NEMP) (Satisfactory).  
The project-funded background studies, a NEMP, a “Toolkit,” 
as well as the public consultations that accompanied them, provided SMRN with a solid foundation 
to begin prioritizing and executing specific environmental interventions by: (i) building the 
knowledge base, consolidating widespread data and gathering new information and technical 
analysis; (ii) presenting an overview of the range of environmental issues; (iii) providing policy 
options and recommendations to address them; and (iv) tools and information for analyzing and 
prioritizing environmental management issues.  SMRN has already used the NEMP and Toolkit to 
internally restructure the Ministry, determine new programs and budget priorities, demonstrating 
their utility and impact.  The Legal and Institutional Study has helped guide the initial 
organizational structure and division of functional responsibilities of SMRN, and will continue to 
serve as a reference for further efforts in this area.  
- 4 -
Page  8
The shortcomings of the NEMP (see Section 4.2) reflect an overly ambitious project design that 
failed to take into account the project’s short timeframe and limited resources, as well as the weak 
existing knowledge base.  The shortcomings, however, do not detract from the significant 
achievements of the project towards the development of a framework, grounded in sound technical 
principles and participatory processes, for addressing key environmental problems.
4.2  
Outputs by components:
Output indicators provided by the PAD do not fully capture the outputs by Component. This section will 
therefore analyze the attainment of project outputs by activities and components. 
Component 1: Supporting Policy and Institutional Reform
.
ICR Rating: 
Unsatisfactory
As provided in the Project Appraisal Document, the objective of this component was to: (i) define, through 
a consultative process and sound technical principles developed in four background studies, the state of the 
environment and priority legal, institutional and economic reforms necessary to improve environmental 
management in the Dominican Republic, including a rationalized EA process; (ii) define sectoral action 
plans for reform (e.g. mining, tourism) and priorities for future investments in environmental management 
through sectoral studies; and (iii) prepare a National Environmental Management Program (NEMP) that 
integrates and articulates the proposed reforms and investments emerging from the background and sectoral 
studies, and the practical lessons learned from the Pilot Activities component into an action plan that 
identifies key policy reforms and sets priorities for short, medium, and long term activities and investments, 
by both the public and private sectors, for improving environmental management.  This component has 
been rated unsatisfactory because the outputs did not match the expected objectives defined in the PAD.  
While the output objectives were over-ambitious, and in addition this component suffered a number of 
shortcomings, the impact of this component is considered satisfactory (See 4.1). 
1.  Key Background Studies.
  Given the close correlation between the thematic areas of the proposed four 
background studies, it was decided appropriately during implementation to condense them into two key 
studies:  (i) the Environmental Diagnosis and the Economic and Fiscal Analysis Study; and (ii) the 
Institutional and Legal Framework Study.  
1.a. 
The Legal and Institutional Framework Study
.  This activity was 
highly satisfactory
.  The study began 
preparation (March 2001) soon after the establishment of the new Environmental Framework Law  and
 
SMRN, and was tailored early on to better meet the needs of SMRN and address the changes called for
 
under the new Law.  As a result, this study, completed in August of 2001, examined and provided a
 
thorough analysis of the country’s environmental legal framework, including the Environmental Framework 
Law  and drafts for sectoral laws, regulations and standards for protected areas, biodiversity, air quality
 
emissions, noise, solid waste, water quality, and forestry, among others. The study included proposals for 
draft regulations for the National Council for the Environment (
Consejo Nacional de Medio Ambiente
) and 
the National Fund for the Environment 
(
Fondo National de Medio Ambiente
), both created by the new
 
General Law of the Environment.  In addition, the study analyzed the institutional framework for
 
environmental administration, focusing in particular on: (i) the internal organization and functional
 
responsibilities among the different units of SMRN; (ii) the assignment of specific tasks to strengthen
 
SMRN’s internal operations (i.e. monitoring & evaluation and financial administration); (iii) specific
 
suggestions for the decentralization of environmental management responsibilities; and (iv) suggestions for 
improving overall human resources capacity.   
This highly satisfactory study was submitted on time, meeting the tight schedule of delivery in project 
- 5 -
Page  9
design. All levels within SMRN have benefited from the analysis and recommendations provided in this 
Study. Leadership in SMRN has used it as a planning tool for organizational and operational purposes, 
while technical staff have relied on the study to define their individual roles and responsibilities within their 
relevant departments.  As SMRN continues to evolve, this study will continue to play a key role in defining 
the legal and administrative framework for environmental management.
1.b. 
The Environmental Diagnosis and Economic and Fiscal Analysis Study
.  This activity has been rated 
unsatisfactory
.  This study, which had a time horizon of 6 months, began preparation in March of 2001 
and was completed in June, 2002. This study sought to gather existing, and in some cases, provide new 
information pertaining to the state of the environment in the Dominican Republic.  As per the terms of 
reference, this study would also provide an economic analysis to complement the diagnosis of 
environmental problems to assist in the identification of policy reforms and the prioritization of 
environmental challenges.  To achieve these objectives, the Environmental Diagnosis divided its analysis 
into the following twelve chapters:  (1) identification of pollution sources; (2) characterization of pollution 
sources; (3) water quality; (4) water resources, with a focus on management issues; (5) air quality; (6) 
forestry resources; (7) protected areas; (8) coastal and marine resources; (9) agricultural impact on the 
environment; (10) mining impacts on the environment; (11) the associated environmental impacts from the 
economic and commercial structure; and (12) a monitoring plan and specific recommendations.  In some 
sections (i.e. water quality and supply) the study gathered data from representative geographic areas (i.e. 
three watersheds) to develop its analysis, while in others (i.e solid waste), it examined national data.  The 
Diagnosis generated new data and gathered a significant amount of useful environmental information from 
many widespread sources.  The study also provided a methodology for collecting and analyzing additional 
data, highlighting gaps of information and providing general conclusions and recommendations for future 
policy making.  
The Environmental Diagnosis, however, suffered several shortcomings during its implementation including: 
(i) weak or incomplete economic and fiscal analysis; (ii) weak technical analysis of some key sectors (i.e. 
tourism, energy); and (iii) ten month delay in implementation.  As a result, the Environmental Diagnostic: 
(a) did not provide timely input to the NEMP; (b) did not adequately identify policy reforms; (c) did not 
provide for prioritization of environmental problems; and (d) hindered dissemination and consensus 
building.
2.  
Sectoral Studies
.  This activity has been rated 
unsatisfactory
, as only one sectoral study on the "Effects 
of Hurricane Georges on Erosion in the Rio Nizao Watershed” was completed (February 2001) under the
 
project.  Despite the study's high quality, its overall usefulness was questioned by SMRN, and it was
 
unclear if additional sectoral studies would provide any significant additional value, given the
 
comprehensive coverage envisioned under the Environmental Diagnostic. Furthermore, stakeholder
 
meetings did not succeed in identifying in a timely fashion sectoral policy issues for consideration.  
Consequently, a strategic decision was made by the PCU, in conjunction with the Bank, to forgo additional 
sectoral studies.  In hindsight, additional sectoral studies could have provided the necessary information to 
complement the Environmental Diagnostic Study.  
- 6 -
Page  10
3.  
The National Environmental Management Program
.  This activity has been rated 
unsatisfactory
, as it 
did not fully meet the objectives and process described in the PAD.  The decision was made during project 
implementation to change the design of the NEMP in three significant ways.  First, the NEMP was 
prepared in parallel with the Diagnostic, beginning in March 2001, with the expectation that the NEMP 
would incorporate the data and analysis of the Diagnostic midstream.  Second, the NEMP was developed 
through the preparation of nine case studies designed to use public debate and consultation to uncover and 
define common environmental problems, institutional bottlenecks and potential solutions in a participatory 
manner.  Third, once it was evident that the NEMP could not adequately incorporate the Diagnostic due to 
delays, the decision was made to prepare a Toolkit that integrated the data from the Diagnostic and NEMP 
into a more condensed user-friendly planning tool for SMRN. 
Ultimately, the NEMP and subsequent Toolkit were unable to achieve the output objectives for Component 
1.  More specifically, both studies collectively did not provide a prioritized, sequenced and detailed action 
plan, with specific key policy reforms and investments.   The NEMP, completed in February of 2002, was 
unable to incorporate the Diagnostic (June 2002) in its final analysis.  While the preparation of nine case 
studies was participatory, and the final NEMP benefited from consensus building activities, it was 
ultimately not adequately disseminated and promoted.  The Toolkit, completed one month prior to project 
closure in September of 2002, could not, for lack of time, benefit from consultation and consensus building 
activities, and has not yet been fully internalized within SMRN.
The failure of the NEMP however is relative to initial objectives set out in the PAD, which were ambitious 
in scope and depth.  The scope of the issues to be covered, as evidenced by the 12 chapters of the 
Diagnostic, as well as the level of analysis and consultation processes required to develop key policy 
reforms and set priorities for the short medium and long-term was ambitious given the project’s limited 
resources and time, as well as the limited level of capacity and available data at the time of project 
preparation.  In addition, the decision to prepare the NEMP and Diagnostic in parallel rather than 
sequentially, and the use of different  consulting firms for each study, created additional risks.  Ultimately, 
these risks materialized, in that the Diagnostic was not completed on time and of inadequate quality, and 
therefore could not serve as a basis of data and analysis for a NEMP report that was already completed.  
Risks could also have been reduced by limiting the coverage of the Diagnostic to fewer, key environmental 
issues.  Finally, more proactive Bank supervision could have managed the risks better as they arose during 
implementation (See Section 7.2). 
Despite the shortcomings enumerated above, the NEMP did succeed in identifying and analyzing: (i) 
critical environmental problems; (ii) causes of environmental degradation; and (iii) principal consequences 
of these identified environmental problems on Dominican society.  The NEMP also provided a framework 
for prioritizing environmental challenges and developed a series of proposed interventions and policy 
reforms. The NEMP incorporated the findings of the Legal and Institutional Analysis, results from the 
consultations, workshops and case studies, and some of the lessons learned from the pilot projects.  In 
addition, attempts were made to remedy the delays in the completion of the Diagnostic through the 
incorporation of some of the findings of the Environmental Diagnostic 
ex post facto
 by the consulting firm 
and through several PCU-led workshops to verify the data and facilitate its incorporation into the NEMP.  
An independent external evaluation of the NEMP rated the final draft as satisfactory, concluding that the 
NEMP, “
exhibits high coherence, quality and relevance, reflected in the integrity of the analysis of the 
environmental problems, thoroughness in the proposal of construction of policies, and in the vastness 
and deepness in the treatment of the different sectors which require an environmental policy
”.  Despite 
the fact that the NEMP has had a positive impact on SMRN’s operations, as evidenced by the: (i) reliance 
on the framework proposed in the NEMP to reorganize its thematic areas; and (ii) efforts to restructure its 
- 7 -
Page  11
budget allocations according to the NEMP’s recommendations, it may be too early to judge on its overall 
sustainability.   
4. 
Public Consultation
.  This activity has been rated 
satisfactory
. Project design originally envisioned that 
public consultation would form a separate activity to build consensus among the different agencies and
 
actors involved in environmental management. Thus, between 1998-2000, the project supported a series of 
round tables to discuss institutional and legal reforms in environment. The round tables included political
 
parties’ representatives, members of Congress, private companies, community leaders and representatives 
from public agencies. The creation of SMRN centralized the environmental management process into one
 
institution, reducing the need for a consensus building process among widespread environmental public
 
agencies (further broad based consultations). While the project shifted to actively foster consultation within 
SMRN on the quality and content of the background studies, and the NEMP, as well as in workshops and 
capacity building activities, the project was limited on actively involving the private sector and civil society 
in these consultations, particularly regarding the dissemination of the final version of the NEMP.  
Component 2: Developing Pilot Activities
ICR Rating: 
Satisfactory
The project financed the implementation of eight pilot sub-projects (see Annex 9 for further details) that 
tested innovative activities and new mechanisms for finding solutions to priority environmental policy 
problems, including: (i) innovative models for natural resource management; (ii) decentralized 
environmental management, (iii) public-private  partnerships; and (iv) creative mechanisms for sustainable 
environmental management.  This component met its objective in that it successfully tested these 
approaches and in that it followed the process proposed in project design. 
The transparent and detailed preparation and selection process for the pilot activities proved to be one of 
the project’s most noteworthy achievements.  The PCU developed a very detailed operation manual that 
included administrative procedures (including the formulation of an independent selection committee), clear 
eligibility criteria, and a monitoring system for project implementation.  During the entire selection process, 
the PCU hosted an orientation workshop and  provided valuable technical and administrative support to 
applicants in the preparation of the detailed pilot proposals, helping to build the capacity of participants to 
effectively plan and implement locally-based environmental projects.  Over 140 organizations submitted 
proposals and participated in the workshop, including private-public sector partnerships, NGOs, and local 
government teams. Applicant teams, including even many that were not selected, praised the informative 
workshop and transparent selection process.  From this group, an independent selection committee made up 
of NGO, private and public sector representatives selected the final eight pilot proposals.  
The pilot projects focused on key environmental issues faced at the local level, including solid waste
 
management, partnerships for  protected areas management and environmental information dissemination
 
and education.  Project teams, encouraged by the cooperative atmosphere fostered by the selection process, 
worked together to share experiences and improve performance.  After completion of the pilots, project
 
teams shared the lessons learned in a workshop sponsored by the PCU, and an independent a final
 
evaluation of the component concluded that the pilots had: (i) successfully tested innovative approaches to 
managing environmental issues at the local level (in terms of the scope and proposed solutions to those
 
local environmental problems); (ii) developed new approaches in shared management that promoted
 
participation and strategic alliances in the environmental sector (zoning, waste management,
 
co-management of protected areas); (iii) fostered decentralization and privatization of environmental
 
management services; (iv) promoted the exchange of methodologies and successful practices among pilot
 
teams; (v) created effective monitoring indicators; and (vi) developed strong ownership among project
 
- 8 -
Page  12
participants and beneficiaries.  
This evaluation concurs with these conclusions, but also notes that the three pilots that tested creative
 
financing mechanisms for local environmental management (i.e. payment for environmental services) failed 
to achieve financial sustainability, highlighting weaknesses that would need to be addressed in the future
 
development of a framework for decentralized environmental management, and underlying the importance
 
of future analysis on this issue (See Annex 9 for greater detail).  While this component has provided
 
valuable lessons, future efforts will be required to guide SMRN’s efforts in the decentralization process of 
environmental management.  
Component 3: Building Capacity for Project Management and Providing Technical Training 
ICR Rating: 
Highly Satisfactory
The component achieved its objectives of strengthening technical and environmental management capacity 
and ensuring efficient and effective project implementation by the PCU.  The project achieved these
 
objectives by: (i) creating and supporting a  PCU to implement and supervise the project; (ii) training key 
personnel, particularly in the newly created national environmental agency; (iii) creating a Technical
 
Advisory Committee to provide consultative support to the PCU and enhance stakeholder participation; (iv) 
disseminating project activities and environmental information; and (v) monitoring and evaluating project
 
activities. 
Creation of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
.  This activity is has been rated
 
Satisfactory
. This
 
component supported the creation of a PCU, which performed in a satisfactory manner in the delivery of
 
project outputs. The PCU benefited from UNDP’s support on project administration, including account
 
management and procurement.  While high technical staff turn-over in the PCU hindered project
 
supervision, often in critical times, the PCU performed competently when fully staffed.  
Creation of a Technical Committee and an Advisory Commission.
 This activity is has been rated
 
Satisfactory. 
Initially the project envisioned the creation of  two advisory entities: (i) the  Advisory
 
Commission (AC), responsible for providing overall guidance to the PCU on the project; and (ii) the
 
Technical Committee (TC) to direct the selection, monitoring, and evaluation of the pilot sub-projects.
 
Although the formal names and the composition of the members changed during project implementation,
 
the original functions and responsibilities remained through the establishment of two advisory committees 
(the Technical Advisory Committee - TAC, and the Selection Committee for Pilot Subprojects - SC).  In
 
particular, the TAC: (i) established priorities for selecting key studies; (ii) provided a quality review of
 
drafts studies and NEMP; (iii) ensured close inter-institutional collaboration; (iv) approved the plan for
 
preparing the NEMP; (v) participated in identifying key recommendations for the program; (vi) oversaw
 
the work of the SC and the PCU; and (vi) promoted the adoption of environmental policy reforms.  The
 
TAC met regularly as required. The TAC was composed of: (a) all Subsecretariats under SMRN; (b) the
 
office of Planning and Programs; (c) UNDP; (d) private sector representative; and (e) an NGO.  While the 
project envisioned greater representation of the private sector (i.e association of industries) and civil society 
in the TAC, ultimately there was only one corporate (Helados Bon) and one NGO representative (Plan
 
Sierra).  The SC, as described above, oversaw the entire selection process of the Pilot Sub-projects,
 
ensuring transparency in the process.  The SC was composed of: 12 professionals recognized for their
 
experience in the environmental sector and with ample expertise in planning and evaluating projects.  This 
Committee ensured a transparent and fair selection process, which was highly commended by all involved 
in the process. 
Public Information Campaign.
  This activity is has been rated 
Highly
 
Satisfactory. 
 During early stages of 
- 9 -
Page  13
implementation, the project promoted dialogue among key stakeholders on the future of national
 
environmental management, through round table discussions on political and institutional reforms 
(
Proyecto de Mesas de Discusión
 
sobre
 R
eformas Políticas e Institucionales – Mesa Redonda
).  The PCU 
created and periodically updated a website to present and make available information on the main activities 
and products generated by the project.   In addition, the project financed bulletins, with relevant information 
on the project’s activities and related environmental issues, that were distributed to organizations and
 
individuals, either directly or through project sponsored events. Responding to the request of SMRN, the
 
project supported the dissemination of copies of the National Environmental Law, forestry regulations, as 
well as standards and norms for forestry, solid waste, air and  water quality and noise pollution. Finally, all 
project reports, including the key studies and the sectoral study on soil erosion were disseminated to
 
stakeholders and presented for discussion through a series of workshops.
Strengthening of Institutional Capacity for Environmental Planning and Management
.  This activity is has 
been rated 
Highly
 
Satisfactory. 
 The objective of this activity was to build capacity through training for key 
personnel and provide technical assistance to support overall environmental management.  The target
 
beneficiary groups of this activity included government agencies, with a focus on SMRN after its creation, 
and other relevant stakeholders. In addition to technical capacity built through the implementation of the
 
studies and the pilot process, the project sponsored specific capacity building activities targeting key needs 
for technical staff.  Some of the topics covered by the technical assistance and training courses/workshops 
delivered under this component included: (i) Environmental Impact Assessment; (ii) Strategic
 
Environmental Evaluations; (iii) Forest Policy Formulation; (iv) ISO 14000; (v) Protected Areas
 
Management; (vi) Watershed Conservation and Management; and (vii) Environmental Audits. (see Annex 
10 for a detailed list of activities and numbers of participants).  
Despite concerns that the change in administration would disrupt the capacity building process, most
 
beneficiaries continued in technical positions within SMRN once it was created.  However, these and other 
staff members of the newly created institution (SMRN) still required a significant amount of technical
 
support and capacity building. Most notably, the project continued to build capacity within SMRN to
 
execute a system of Environmental Impact Assessment and Strategic Environmental Evaluations
 
procedures in accordance with the Environmental Framework Law.  
    
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
.  This activity is has been rated 
Satisfactory. 
 The project established a 
monitoring and evaluation system for project activities that was incorporated into the project's operational 
manual. However, the M&E system, which was based on an agreed schedule for the implementation of 
activities and performance and progress indicators, had a weak supervision.  While the PCU adequately 
supervised project activities, the methodology proposed in the M&E system, was not systematically 
followed. Ultimately, the PCU monitored and evaluated project components through: (i) workshops for 
Pilot coordinators; (ii) field visits to pilot sites; (iii) revisions of key studies and general oversight of their 
technical quality; (iv) two external evaluations (one for the pilot component, the second for the entire 
project); and (v) periodic progress reports that measured and evaluated project achievements and 
shortcomings.  
4.3  
Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4  
Financial rate of return:
N/A
- 10 -
Page  14
4.5  
Institutional development impact:
 
Substantial 
The institutional development impact generated by the project is substantial. The institutional 
basis for improved environmental management has been firmly established, providing the 
necessary stepping stone for future interventions and improved environmental outcomes.  The 
choice and the timing of implementing a LIL as a lending instrument was appropriate, since it 
contributed to the consolidation of dispersed environmental management agencies, facilitated the 
creation of a modern environmental framework law, developed important technical knowledge 
and lessons, and created the tools and built momentum for a long term intervention to support 
environmental management in the Dominican Republic. 
Furthermore, most of the technical staff that 
once worked on the PCU are still working in the sector (within SMRN, in an environmental NGO, and as 
independent environmental consultants) contributing to the institutional development impact.  
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project suffered a number of unexpected factors which led to delays in project implementation.  In
 
order to accommodate these delays and setbacks in the delivery of key products, the project received a ten 
month extension to the closing date.
·
Congressional delays in approving the project.
  The project, approved in February and signed in 
March of 1998, suffered a six month effectiveness delay because of a failure of the Congress to approve 
the project until August of that same year.
·
Hurricane George
.  In September of 1998, Hurricane George touched down on the Dominican 
Republic, causing serious damage to the country's infrastructure and natural resources and delaying project 
implementation by two months. 
Death of the PCU Administrator.
  The sudden death of the Project Administrator and the subsequent 
inability of the PCU to find a qualified replacement resulted in a five month delay in the execution of 
several of the project's activities.
5.2
Factors generally subject to government control:
·
Location of the PCU
. In order to maintain a certain level of political neutrality and autonomy, the 
PCU offices were initially located outside of ONAPLAN.  To some extent,  the PCU benefited 
from its location and relative autonomy because it was able to serve as a bridge between the 
political parties' varying positions on the environment.  However, the PCU's isolated location also 
created friction with some officials who felt that the Government should have greater access and 
control over the project.  Ultimately, the PCU was relocated to ONAPLAN, and then finally to 
SMRN after its creation.
·
Delays in the provision of counterpart funds
.  The Government failed to meet the schedule for 
allocation of counterpart resources to fulfill its project responsibilities.  After reaching a point 
where the lack of counterpart funding might impede an extension to the closing of the project and 
halt the project's progress, the Secretary of the Environment directly requested the President’s 
office to secure funds in 2001 from a special account to cover the deficit and provide for the 
remainder of the project's counterpart funding requirements.  
While ultimately all of the 
counterpart funds were secured for the project,  the Government disbursed only 60% of its agreed 
to counterpart funding to project activities. This low disbursement of counterpart funds was mostly 
- 11 -
Page  15
due to the delay in receiving the funds, a recurrent problem in the Dominican Republic.  By the 
time the first project extension was granted (December 2001), only 54% of counterpart funds had 
been received, leaving few opportunities to spend the remaining counterpart funds (as per the loan 
agreement, counterpart funds were required to cover only 20 percent of the operating costs 
category). Currently GoDR is considering using unused counterpart resources to finance the 
preparation work for the follow-up operation.
5.3
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
·
Lack of continuity of the personnel within the PCU
.  The PCU struggled to maintain adequate 
technical staff over the life of the project. 
The main adjustments in staffing occurred when there was a 
change of administration.  While project coordinators hired well-qualified people who provided excellent 
support to the project's activities, frequent changes to technical personnel had a negative effect on the level 
of monitoring and evaluation for project components, as well as delays while staff members were brought 
up to speed on the project and its activities.  In addition, periods of staff turn-over led to several intervals 
where the PCU was understaffed, reducing the level of project supervision of the pilot projects.
5.4
Costs and financing:
Initially, the PAD foresaw a total project cost of US$3.6 million with a contribution by the Bank of US$3.0 
million and US$ 0.6 million by the Borrower.  By project closing, the Bank contribution amounted to
 
[US$2.76 million, or 91%] and the Borrower's to [US$0.37 million, or 60%].   
The Borrower requested two extensions of the closing date from December 31, 2001 to June 2002 and then 
to October 31, 2002, to complete project activities. Initially, the extension was to allow some of the pilot 
projects to complete its activities.  However, the extensions have provided necessary additional time for a 
number of activities, including: (i) the completion of the Environmental Diagnostic study; (ii) the
 
integration of the Diagnostic into the NEMP; (iii) training and capacity building activities; (iv) closing
 
workshops for the pilot projects; (vi) elaboration of the Toolkit; and (vii) the final evaluation of the project.
In June 2002, there was a reallocation of loan resources among project categories, to increase the amount 
of resources to categories 2 (consultant services) and 3 (training), and reducing the amounts from 
categories 1 (Goods), 5 (Pilot Subprojects) and 6 (unallocated). This was mainly motivated by the higher 
prices for the delivery of the key studies and for additional training activities provided to the SMNR.
6.  Sustainability
6.1
Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is [
highly
 
likely
] that the achievements of the project will be maintained for the following reasons:
·
The 
approval of the Environmental Framework Law and the creation of SMRN
 have set in place 
an environmental management framework that is well-equipped to maintain the achievements of the 
project.   Project outputs, despite noted shortcomings, will be well-positioned to provide continued 
support to SMRN and its execution of the Environmental Framework Law even after project 
closure.  In particular, it is expected that the Legal and Institutional Framework Study will 
continue to guide future adjustments to the institutional structure within SMRN, inter-sectoral 
coordination between Ministries, and the decentralization of key functions to municipalities. The 
most complete and accurate sections of the Environmental Diagnostic Study are being used by the 
relevant Sub-secretaries as sources of key data for planning, and the NEMP is currently used in 
SMRN to determine new programs and budget priorities. The tool-kit that synthesizes data from 
the NEMP and Environmental Diagnostic may further increase these studies’ impact and 
- 12 -
Page  16
sustainability. Looking ahead, the sustainability of the NEMP would certainly benefit from 
consensus building within SMRN and wider dissemination to NGOs and the private sector to build 
consensus and coordination.  
·
While may be too early to judge, it is likely that the project has helped to generate 
greater 
environmental awareness
 through its participatory approach.  The many workshops and training 
activities, as well as public outreach and dissemination of project materials and pilot activities have 
all helped to build knowledge and capacity for environmental management. 
6.2
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
After project closure, the PCU has been dissolved, but has kept a core group of administrative staff to 
conclude accounting and financial matters.  The SMRN and the Bank are in the process of preparing a new 
operation, and it is foreseen that the core administrative staff would be integrated within the planning 
department of SMRN to support the follow-up project, since they have the knowledge and experience of 
working with Bank operations.  The Secretary has designated key staff to work with the Bank team on 
project design and preparation.  Building on the results of the NEMP, the Bank is working with SMRN on 
the identification of priority environmental management interventions and a corresponding action plan to 
develop a strategic framework for programmatic lending interventions.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1
Lending:
Satisfactory
At the time of project preparation, responsibility for environmental management in the Dominican Republic 
was dispersed among a wide range of agencies, resulting in overlapping responsibilities and a general lack 
of coordination.  Several different versions of an environmental framework law existed at the time, and
 
were the subject of intense debate between political parties.  The Bank team, in close collaboration with the 
Borrower, recognized an opportunity to build on the political momentum for environmental reform, and
 
quickly prepared a project to support the reform movement.  The Bank’s decision to use the Environmental 
Learning and Innovation Loan tool for the first time in the Latin American Caribbean region was
 
appropriate given the: (i) limited development of environmental management in the country; (ii) highly
 
charged debate on environmental reform; and (iii) overall level of in country capacity.  The LIL also
 
provided an optimal approach for building a stronger foundation for environmental reform that is paving
 
the way for a larger commitment in the future.   
Project design envisioned an organized and transparent platform for participatory discussion that would 
generate key outputs to help support concrete reforms. The project’s final design successfully translated 
this vision into three components, founded in a participatory approach and flexible enough to support the 
eventual creation of the Environmental Secretariat and the implementation of the Environmental 
Framework Law .  However, the design of component 1, was too ambitious in the expected 
comprehensiveness and depth of the proposed NEMP and background studies, given the limited funding 
and time dedicated to these outputs, as well as the initial level of local capacity and weak knowledge base.
7.2
Supervision:
Satisfactory
The Bank team provided proactive support to the PCU, with nearly 18 missions and almost daily phone or 
e-mail contact.  Project documentation was more than adequate, with 15 PSRs and many informative aide
 
memoires and back to office reports. The Bank team sought to incorporate the right composition of staff
 
(by their field of expertise) to complement supervision missions. Furthermore, the Bank team delivered
 
- 13 -
Page  17
sound technical assistance to the Borrower, most notably in environmental management, procurement, and 
financial management.  For the most part, Bank project management proactively addressed problems that 
arose during implementation.  The project team sought extensions early in the life of the project to adjust to 
the various delays caused by events outside of project management control.  At mid-term review, the Bank 
team worked diligently with the Secretary and his technical staff to adjust the project to meet the needs of 
the new Environmental Secretariat. These interventions allowed to shift the focus of Components 1 and 3 to 
better meet the needs of the new institution (SMRN). In addition, the Bank team provided a satisfactory
 
supervision to component 2, as evidenced by the close monitoring of pilot activities, which included a
 
number of field visits to pilot sites, and in the active engagement in solving issues that emerged during the
 
implementation of pilots. Likewise, the Bank team provided an adequate supervision to component 3,
 
providing ongoing support and technical advice to capacity building and technical assistance activities, as 
well as to the development of public information campaigns.
However, in some sections of Component 1, the Bank team was not as successful in designing a process for 
the development of the Environmental Diagnostic and NEMP that mitigated potential risk, and in reacting 
to the shortcomings during their implementation. Thus, supervision efforts were limited in addressing 
implementation issues arising from the overly-ambitious design of component 1.  The team did  provide: (i) 
two extensions to closing date to accommodate delays; (ii) technical, legal and procurement advice; (iii) 
information to the minister and other key high level staff within SMRN about the shortcomings of the 
products; and (iv) advice to GoDR on the elaboration of the Toolkit to integrate data from studies and the 
NEMP.  However, in retrospect, the parallel implementation of the NEMP and Diagnostic studies, as well 
as the use of separate consulting firms, proved to be risky.  These risks could have been mitigated through 
a variety of means: (i) sequencing implementation of the two studies as initially planned; (ii) 
implementation through a single procurement package; (iii) reducing the coverage of the Diagnostic and 
NEMP to fewer, key environmental issues; and (iv) using alternative methods of contracting the consultants 
(i.e. performance-based as opposed to input-based).  Furthermore, as the risks materialized during 
implementation of the studies, the Bank could have been more proactive in re-focusing the Diagnostic 
study, and holding further implementation of the NEMP until satisfactory completion of the Diagnostic.
7.3
Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory
Despite the limited success in mitigating the shortcomings of the Environmental Diagnostic Study and 
NEMP for component 1, the Bank team and the Borrower worked closely and efficiently during project 
preparation and implementation, achieving the project objective’s and delivering project activities.  Lastly, 
the project design embedded in the LIL provided the flexibility needed to respond to the country’s needs and 
adapt the project to the emerging institutional and legal framework. 
Borrower
7.4
Preparation:
Satisfactory
The Borrower worked closely with the Bank to build consensus on the project’s design.  Both parties  
sought input from a wide range of stakeholders, which included representatives from political parties, civil 
society and the private sector.  Preparation of the project was swift and efficient, due in large part to the 
shared vision between the Bank team and the Borrower, who had worked previously together on other 
projects.  However, the Bank and the Borrower may have been overly ambitious in the design of the 
activities within component 1.
- 14 -
Page  18
7.5
Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory
Government's performance during implementation was partially satisfactory, due to the failure of the 
Government to meet the schedule for providing counterpart funding.  Delays in submitting the pending 
counterpart funds threatened the possibility of obtaining extensions to the closing date for the completion of 
pending activities, but through the active intervention of the PCU, SMRN, ONAPLAN, UNDP and the 
Bank, the Government responded at a critical time to provide the necessary funds from a Presidential 
discretionary account.  While this satisfied the Bank’s condition for granting the extension of the closing 
date of the project, the Government ultimately disbursed only 53% of these funds.  On the other hand, it is 
worth noting that government responded effectively when ONAPLAN yielded its responsibilities as the 
implementing agency to SMRN once this was created.
7.6
Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory
The PCU’s performance during the life of the project was satisfactory.  The PCU’s efforts to prepare
 
project implementation manuals, TORs, procurement plans, and administrative systems were noteworthy
 
and according to Bank procurement and finance officials, represented best practices.  Faced with
 
significant delays due to Hurricane Georges, the death of a project administrator, a six month effectiveness 
delay and country-wide elections, the PCU worked admirably to keep the project on its critical path.  
However, the PCU was often understaffed, resulting in an inability to effectively monitor and evaluate
 
ongoing work. Furthermore, high turnover of personnel within the PCU affected continuity, and created
 
delays as new staff tried to familiarize themselves with the project.  This affected the overall quality of
 
implementation of several project activities.  Furthermore, the PCU could have been more proactive in
 
raising awareness of the unsatisfactory performance of the consultants in charge of the Environmental
 
Diagnostic, and could have taken preventive measures to ensure compliance with the legal agreement. 
Nevertheless, despite the frequent personnel changes, the PCU made significant efforts to deliver the 
outputs and maintain the pace of project implementation.  The PCU maintained good communication lines 
with the Bank and prepared lengthy, well-organized progress reports.  While the PCU established a 
methodology for monitoring and evaluation, it was not systematically followed.  Noteworthy, was the 
PCU’s ability to remain somewhat apolitical during the early stages of operation, ensuring its neutrality 
and building consensus towards a unified, participatory approach.
 
7.7
Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
Despite the fact that counterpart funds were not provided according to schedule, overall Borrower
 
performance was satisfactory.  Many of the Sub-Secretaries and their staff actively participated in the
 
project, contributing to building the capacity to operate under the new General Environmental Law.  The
 
project benefited from talented technical PCU staff, who worked hard to complete project outputs despite
 
often being understaffed and lacking institutional support.  Faced with a number of  delays and obstacles 
(as listed above), the PCU completed the foreseen activities and components within the life-span of the
 
project. 
- 15 -
Page  19
8. 
Lessons Learned
1.  
Project Design
·
Simplicity and flexibility in project design
 are two essential characteristics for loans with short 
implementation periods.  Avoiding complexity in project design (e.g. clear and concise components, 
concrete objectives in line with institutional capacity, realistic timing in output delivery, etc.), allows 
for smoother implementation.  Similarly, projects that build in a flexible approach (e.g. confined, 
demand-driven capacity building activities) are better equipped to adapt to unforeseen shocks 
encountered during implementation, ensuring their completion.  In this particular project,  the tight 
sequencing of the background studies, sectoral studies and the final NEMP in Component 1 was a 
major cause for the shortcomings of the NEMP.  The scope of the coverage of the NEMP and 
Diagnostic, given the relative paucity of existing local data, may have been too ambitious, and could 
have been scaled down during project implementation to address only priority environmental problems;
·
The preparation of a dissemination strategy
 is essential for projects with a significant consensus 
building component.  While this project did include dissemination activities (i.e. bulletins, web-site, 
workshops), the project did not have a communication strategy for targeting key stakeholders, 
facilitating their active engagement in project’s activities, and a methodology for measuring the impacts 
of the dissemination process.
2.
Implementation
·
Adopting a participatory consultative process to develop project outputs and implement project 
activities 
enhances continuity and sustainability in project execution.  Despite a reduced scope in the 
consultative process after SMRN’s creation, a participatory approach integrated into each project 
component ensured the engagement of technical staff and stakeholders in the development of project 
outputs.  This exposure and participation familiarized stakeholders with project’s objectives and will 
likely influence the ownership of project’s products and lessons beyond the closure of the project.  
3.
Pilot Subprojects
·
While the degree of success and sustainability varied among the 8 pilots, 
the
 
most successful pilot 
implementation teams were those that fully involved the local communities in all decision-making
, 
building ownership and trust from the proposal stage until the closure of the project.  One particularly 
successful project (located in La Mina and el Café neighborhoods in Santo Domingo) that exemplified 
this approach will be expanding to meet other community solid waste management needs in a 
sustainable fashion through community financial support.  Further efforts should be made in the pilot 
selection process to choose carefully only those pilots that incorporate this approach;
·
Pilot projects should contemplate financial sustainability as a major criteria for selection
.  Project 
teams should also be made clearly aware that additional funding will not be made available, so as not 
to build expectations for future support.  Although it was conveyed (through the initial workshop and 
the operating manual) that this exercise would only serve to test  different approaches to environmental 
management, many of the pilot projects (particularly those which did not include financial mechanisms) 
have been unable to sustain themselves after project closure.  In addition, many project teams that 
worked hard to achieve impressive results in a limited amount of time voiced their frustration at being 
unable to continue their valuable work without continued financial support.
- 16 -
Page  20
9. 
Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. 
Additional Information
None.
- 17 -
Page  21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
1.A Outcome/impact indicators
:
Key Performance Indicators
Target in PAD
Actual/latest Estimate
- Key  environmental policy issues 
identified by stakeholders, and 
progress towards learning how to 
address them achieved through 
participatory approach.  
 
- Key environmental policy issues 
identified by stake holders by month 
three; 
- Progress towards learning how to 
address key issues measured in 
participatory workshops each 
semester.
·
Legal and institutional constraints 
were identified as the key 
environmental policy issues;
·
Project played a crucial role in 
broad based consensus building 
discussions that ultimately led to 
the passage of the Environmental 
Framework Law and the creation 
of SMRN;
·
Continued to make further progress 
in addressing key environmental 
priority issues through the 
elaboration of a highly satisfactory 
Legal and Institutional Framework 
study, capacity building and 
technical assistance activities.  
-Identification of key issues for Pilot 
Activities and their successful 
completion. 
- Pilot activities to address key issues 
identified by month six;
- 75% of pilot activities successfully 
completed by year two.
·
Successfully identified and financed 
the implementation of eight pilot 
sub-projects that tested innovative 
activities and new mechanisms for 
finding solutions to priority; 
environmental policy problems;
·
75% of pilot activities were 
successfully completed; 
Generated lessons including: (i) 
willingness and capacity of local 
communities, civil society and 
private sector to address 
environmental issues;  and (ii) the 
identification of potential 
weaknesses in decentralized env. 
management.  
- The development  of a framework  for 
addressing key environmental 
problems, through the preparation of 
background studies, sector studies and 
a National Environmental Management 
Program (NEMP)
- Four key background studies 
completed by year one;
- Key sector studies identifying 
specific reforms completed by year 
two. 
- Draft Environmental Management 
Program prepared by year three
·
Developed solid foundations for 
addressing key environmental 
issues through project-funded 
background studies, NEMP, 
“Toolkit,” as well as public 
consultations;
·
One sector study completed;
·
Despite shortcomings, draft NEMP 
was prepared by year three.
- 18 -
Page  22
1. B 
Output Indicators
: 
Indicator
End of Project Target in PAD/Mid 
term review 
Actual Output
1. Improved laws, sectoral/fiscal 
policies and technical processes 
identified.
-  General acceptance by stakeholders 
of key policy reforms.
·
Component 1 supported the elaboration 
of the key background studies, a 
NEMP, Toolkit and one sectoral study 
that collectively identified sectoral 
policy options, providing SMRN with a 
solid foundation for future 
environmental management planning 
and legal and regulatory reform;
·
Completed highly satisfactory Legal 
and Institutional Framework Study that 
provided a thorough analysis of the 
country’s environmental legal 
framework, including the new 
Environmental Law and proposals for 
further regulations;
·
NEMP limited in providing sound 
fiscal & sectoral policies. 
2. Coherent and effective institutional 
arrangements identified at the central 
and provincial levels.
-  Roles of the central, sectoral and 
provincial institutions defined and 
agreed.
·
Legal and Institutional Framework 
Study helped to define the different 
roles and responsibilities within 
SMRN, and for decentralized env. 
management, and is still used as a 
reference for further reform; 
·
The NEMP, provided limited 
recommendations for sectoral linkages 
to be developed and strengthened, as 
well as some guidance on decentralized 
environmental management.  
3. Innovative approaches to 
addressing key environmental 
problems tested.
-  Pilot activities completed, results 
evaluated and integrated into the 
NEMP.
·
Implemented eight pilot sub-projects 
that tested innovative activities and 
new mechanisms for finding solutions 
to priority environmental policy 
problems;
·
External evaluation measured results of 
the pilot component;
·
Held final workshop to review and 
disseminate lessons of pilots; 
·
Lessons integrated into the NEMP.
4. Public and private sector 
awareness and participation in 
environmental planning and 
management increased.
-  Key activities conducted to foster 
public consensus and wide-spread 
support for reforms established;
·
Technical Advisory Committee 
established, with representatives from 
the heads of each department in the 
SMRN, NGOs, and the Private Sector 
that advised the PCU; 
·
Executed active public information 
campaign that included: (i) round table 
discussions on inst. and political 
reforms; (ii) creation of a project 
website; (iii) elaboration of information 
bulletins; (iv) dissemination of the Env. 
Framework Law, regulations, key 
studies and project reports. 
·
Component 3, raised public sector 
awareness through technical assistance 
- 19 -
Page  23
-  Environmental Assessment (EA) 
process rationalized
and capacity building activities to 
improve environmental planning and 
management;
·
Supported EA process through 
launching of four technical workshops, 
and supported  the participation of key 
staff from SMRN in additional 
international seminars related to the 
subject. 
5. System for Monitoring and 
Evaluating Environmental planning 
established.
-  
Monitoring and evaluation system 
established and ready for wider use.
·
The creation of SMRN negated the 
need for a coordination and monitoring 
system as envisaged by the PAD;
·
However, the project did support the 
establishment of a monitoring and 
evaluation system for project activities.
6.  Possible follow-up investment 
(APL) identified. 
-  No target provided in PAD or in 
MTR. 
·
The Bank and SMRN have continued 
discussions on a follow-up project, 
focusing on a programmatic approach 
(possibly an APL) to address key 
environmental issues.
- 20 -
Page  24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component
Appraisal Estimate
Actual
Percentage of 
Appraisal
A. Support for Policy and    
Institutional Reform
B. Pilot Activities
C. Project Management and 
Training
     
1.5
1.2
0.9
1.30
  0.67
1.19
86.6
54.9
132.2
Total Project Costs
   3.6
3.16
87.7
Total Financing Required
3.0
2.75
91.9
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)
 
Procurement Method 
1
/
Expenditure Category
ICB
 
NCB
Other 
2
/
N.B.F.
Total Cost
1. Goods
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
0.125
(0.125)
0.00
(0.00)
0.125
(0.125)
2. Services
 
(a)    Consultant 
services and studies
 
(b)    Project unit 
consultants
 
(c)   Grants for pilot 
activities
 
(d)     
Management 
services for project 
administr.
 
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
 
0.00
(0.00)
  
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
  
0.00
(0.00)
 
 
1.50
(1.50)
  
0.30
(0.30)
 
1.25
(0.75)
  
0.00
(0.00)
 
 
0.00
(0.00)
  
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.125
(0.00)
 
 
 
1.50
(1.50)
0.30
(0.30)
 
1.25
(0.75)
 
0.125
(0.00)
3. Operating Costs
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
0.26
(0.215)
0.00
(0.00)
0.26
(0.215)
4. Training
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
0.11
(0.11)
0.00
(0.00)
0.11
(0.11)
Total
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
3.545
(3.00)
0.125
(0.00)
3.67
(3.00)
 
- 21 -
Page  25
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent
)
 
Procurement Method 
1
/
Expenditure Category
ICB
 
NCB
Other 
2
/
N.B.F.
Total Cost
1. Goods
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
0.09
(0.08)
0.00
(0.00)
0.09
(0.07)
2. Services
 
(a)    Consultant 
services & studies
 
(b)    Project unit 
consultants
 
(c)    Grants for 
pilot activities
 
(d)    Management 
services for project 
administr.
 
 
1.21
(1.21)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00) 
 
 
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
 
 
0.09
(0.09)
 
       0.64
(0.61)
 
0.67
(0.50)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
 
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
 0.00
(0.00)
 
0.00
(0.00)
 
0.10
(0.00)
 
 
 
1.30
(1.30)
 
 0.64
(0.61)
 
0.67
(0.50)
 
0.10
(0.00)
3. Operating Costs
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
0.19
(0.13)
0.19
(0.13)
4. Training
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
0.12
(0.12)
0.12
(0.12)
Total
1.21
(1.21)
0.00
(0.00)
1.49
(1.28)
0.42
(0.25)
3.13
(2.75)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank.  All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted 
staff, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
(Operating costs include medical insurance of PCU staff and Audits of the Project).  
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate
Actual/Latest Estimate*
Percentage of Appraisal
Components
Bank
GDR
CoF.
Bank
GDR
CoF
Bank
GDR
CoF
A. Support for Policy and 
Institutional Reform 
 
B. Pilot Activities
 
C. Project Management 
and Training 
1.50
 
 
0.75
 
 
0.75
 
0.00
 
 
0.50
 
 
0.15
 
 
1.30
 
 
0.50
 
 
0.95
 
0.00
 
 
0.17
 
 
0.21
 
87
 
 
67
 
 
126
0.00
 
 
34
 
 
140
 
Total Project Costs
3.00
0.65
 
2.75
0.38
 
91.93
58.46
 
- 22 -
Page  26
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 23 -
Page  27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle
Performance Rating
 No. of Persons and Specialty
 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Month/Year
  Count 
    Specialty
Implementation
Progress
Development
Objective
Identification/Preparation
Sept. 1997
4
Lead Spec. (1); Envir. Spec. (2); 
Agronomist (1)
Nov. 1997
4
Task Manager (1); Inst. Spec. 
(1); Agronomist (1)
Dec. 1997
4
Task Manager (1); Env. Spec. (3)
Jan. 1998
4
Lead Specialist (1); Task 
Manager (1), Env. Specialist (2)
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1998
5
Team Leader (1), Task 
Manager (1),  Lawyer (1), 
Technical Assistant (2) 
Supervision
April 1998
1
Task Manager 
S
S
July 1998
6
FOREST ECONOMIST (1); 
FINANCIAL MGT (1); 
PROCUREMENT (2); 
ECONOMIST (1); SR. 
AGRONOMIST (1)
S
S
March 1999
3
Team Leader (1); Acting 
Director, LCSES (1); Env. 
Economist (1)
S
S
April 1999
1
Team Leader (1)
S
S
December 1999
4
Team Leader (1); Env. Spec. (1); 
Inst. Spec. (1); Procurement 
Spec. (1)
S
S
March 2000
2
Task Manager (1) Env. Specialist 
(1)
S
S
October 2000
4
Team Leader (1), Task Manager 
(2), Procurement Spec. (1)
S
S
December 2000
4
Team Leader (1), Task Manager 
(1), Environm. Spec. (1), 
Procurement Spec. (1)
S
S
June 2001
1
Task Manager (1)
S
S
February 2002
1
Task Manager (1)
S
S
April 2002
2
Sector Leader (1), Task Manager 
(1)
S
S
June 2002
1
Task Manager (1)
S
S
ICR
September 2002
3
Task Manager (1); 
Environmental Lawyer (1); 
Operations Spec. (1)
S
S
- 24 -
Page  28
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle
Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks
US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
15.5*
49.05*
Appraisal/Negotiation
15.5*
49.05*
Supervision
80.0
260.00   
ICR
5.0
20.00   
Total 
116.0
379.00   
* 
The figures for staff weeks and resources for identification/preparation and appraisal and negotiation are estimated.
- 25 -
Page  29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
 Rating
Macro policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Sector Policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Physical
H
SU
M
N
NA
Financial
H
SU
M
N
NA
Institutional Development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Environmental
H
SU
M
N
NA
Social
Poverty Reduction
H
SU
M
N
NA
Gender
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
Private sector development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Public sector management
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
- 26 -
Page  30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(
HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
Lending
HS
S
U
HU
Supervision
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
6.2  Borrower performance
Rating
Preparation
HS
S
U
HU
Government implementation performance
HS
S
U
HU
Implementation agency performance
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
- 27 -
Page  31
Annex 7. 
List of Supporting Documents
Bank preparation documents
- Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to office report.  World Bank 1998.
- Project Appraisal Document. World Bank 1998.
- Country Assistance Strategy.  World Bank 1999.
Bank project implementation documents
- Project Status Reports (PSRs). 1998-2002.
- Aide Memoires of Supervision Missions. World Bank 1998-2002.
Main documents prepared by the borrower during implementation
- 
Environmental Diagnosis and Economic Analysis Study.  Abt Associates - PPA. October 2002. 
- National Environmental Management Program. PPA. February 2002.
- Institutional and Legal Framework Study. PPA. August 2001. 
- Final Project Evaluation - National Environmental Policy Reform Project. ("
Evaluación Final del 
Proyecto de Politicas Nacionales de Medio Ambiente
"). October 2002.   
- Strategic Plan for Environmental and Natural Resource Management - the "
Toolkit. 
Sept. 2002. 
- Evaluation of the Pilot Projects - National Environmental Policy Reform Project. ("
Evaluación de Cierre 
de los Proyectos Piloto - Proyecto de Politicas Nacionales de Medio Ambiente
").  April 2002. 
- Report on the Level of Participation in the Project (
Reporte sobre Niveles de Participación en el 
Proyecto
). PPA. Agosto 2000.  
- Signature of contracts and Launching of the Pilot Projects ("
Firma de Contratos y Lanzamiento de 
Proyectos Piloto
"). ONAPLAN - PPA. June 2000.
- Workshop for the closure of the Pilot Projects ("
Taller de Cierre de los Proyectos Piloto"
). PPA. April 
2002.
- "
Boletines Informativos del Proyecto de Políticas Nacionales de Medio Ambiente
". 1999-2002.
- Special Publication about the Env. Policy Reform Project ("
Publicacion Especial sobre el Proyecto de 
Reforma de las Politicas Nacionales de Medio Ambiente
") November 2002. 
- 28 -
Page  32
Additional Annex 
8
. 
Borrower's Contribution
The development objective of the National Environmental Policy Reform Project was to establish the
 
basis for improved environmental management by defining environmental policy reforms and elaborating 
a National Environmental Management Program (NEMP) through a learning and participatory process.  
The Project’s design presented an implementation time frame of 3 years with a budget of US$3.6 million.  
The World Bank’s Learning and Innovation Loan, LIL 4293-DO, contributed US$3 million, while the
 
Dominican Government’s counterpart contribution was of US$0.6 million.
The Project comprised the following components:
1.
Supporting Policy and Institutional Reform
, with the objective of defining priority legal, 
institutional, and fiscal reforms necessary to improve environmental management, define sector 
action plans for reform and priorities for future investments, and prepare the NEMP.  This 
component would finance key background studies, sector studies, and a process of national-level 
public debate on the proposed reforms.
2.
Developing Pilot Activities
, with the objective of testing innovative mechanisms for finding 
solutions to priority environmental policy problems.  This component would finance on a 
cost-sharing basis a program of grants to non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and 
municipalities to carry out the activities, and a system for monitoring and evaluating the results 
of implementation, and integrating these results into the NEMP.
3.
Building Capacity for Project Management and Providing Technical Training
, with the objective 
of strengthening the capacity for environmental planning and management in key environmental 
agencies, ensuring efficient and effective Project implementation by the Project Coordinating 
Unit (PCU), and developing the human resources for the institutional arrangements that would 
result from the reforms.
Project formulation began in 1997, at a time when environmental management responsibilities were
 
dispersed among a number of different institutions with no central coordinating unit.  The Project’s design 
at entry responded to this context, with an emphasis placed on participatory approaches for the capacity 
and consensus building activities necessary to support policy reform.  Stated Project objectives were
 
clearly defined and responsive to Government demands and development priorities.  
The loan agreement came into effect on September 1998, with the National Planning Office (ONAPLAN) 
as the implementing agency.  ONAPLAN signed an agreement with UNDP for the administration of the
 
Project, under which UNDP would provide support to the PCU in procurement activities, compliance with 
the budgetary norms and procedures established by the Bank, and the preparation of contracts.
Kick-off was delayed until March 1999 due partly to the impact of Hurricane Georges, a 
Congressional delay in the approval of the loan, and the PCU’s difficulty in securing adequate staff for 
the coordinating unit.  
Between 1999 and August 2000, the PCU drafted the Operating Manual and the Monitoring and
 
Evaluation Tools for the Project, established the Technical Advisory Committee, supported public
 
debates and consensus-building activities related to environmental management, oversaw the
 
implementation of one sector study, sponsored a series of workshops related to policy reform and
 
strategic planning, and completed the selection process and signing of contracts for the execution of the 
pilot activities.
In August 2000, a new administration created the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources
 
(SMRN), thus altering the institutional and political context in which the Project’s components would be
 
implemented.  The approval of the general law for the environment rendered less relevant some of the
 
aspects considered in the original design, such as the public consultation process.  SMRN and the Bank 
agreed to shift the focus of components 1 and 3 to emphasize institutional and legal framework analysis 
for the new Ministry and capacity building activities for its staff.
- 29 -
Page  33
Factors that affected implementation outcomes and lessons learned
The borrower considers that the general outcome of the Project is satisfactory and that it achieved most 
of its major objectives.  Its major impact was in institutional development, as it helped to improve the
 
new SMRN’s capacities for environmental management.  The Project has supplemented satisfactorily
 
the reform process of the framework of policies, institutions, and laws of the environmental sector, and
 
provided important support to the new institutional structure of the country established after the approval 
of the Law 64-00.  It has also contributed satisfactorily to the identification of key environmental
 
problems and the creation of the national capacities to respond to them, particularly in regard to the
 
public sector.  However, its contributions have also impacted positively 
in the cases of the civil society and the private sector.
The following section highlights some of the key factors that affected implementation outcomes per
 
component, and the derived lessons learned.
Component 1 - Supporting Policy and Institutional Reform
Legal and Institutional Framework Study
 - The outcome of the Legal and Institutional Framework Study 
was very satisfactory.  Its objective was to evaluate the legal framework and analyze the institutional
 
organizational structure for environmental management.  There was close collaboration between the
 
contracted consultants and the SMRN, particularly the Sector Office of Planning and Programming
 
(OSPP), from early on in the implementation of this study.  This led to a high level of acceptance and
 
appropriation of its results. 
Environmental Diagnostic and Economic and Fiscal Analysis Study
 - The performance of the contracted 
consultants led to an unsatisfactory outcome of the Environmental Diagnostic and Economic and Fiscal 
Analysis Study.  The study suffered of implementation problems which affected mainly de Economic
 
Analysis because of a the existence of a weak data base; a long delay for the delivery of the of products, 
which had a negative effect over the quality of the NEMP; and a minimal involvement of SMRN’s
 
technical staff in the realization of the study which apparently led to a low level of appropriation and
 
validation of the results.
National Environmental Management Program
 - The outcome of the NEMP was partially satisfactory.  Its 
major shortcoming was the absence of a comprehensive investment plan for the implementation of the
 
identified priority reforms for improved environmental management.  Another limitation was the low
 
degree of appropriation that national actors from the private sector and the civil society developed in
 
relation to the NEMP.  The original design of the Program called for an ample process of national public 
consultation to be carried out in the initial stages of the study.  The UCP, in accordance with the Bank 
and the contracted consultants, for the negotiation of the contract adjusted considerably the scope of this 
component but the process of national consultation took place as it was established in the Terms of
 
Reference. There was a good level of appropriation of the NEMP developed amongst the national actors. 
The applicability of the NEMP will greatly depend upon the level of acceptance that it summons from its 
main users, namely the public sector and the NGOs, which is in it associated to the appropriation and
 
endorsement by the highest decision levels at SMRN.
Main Findings
·
The Project was partially successful in engaging the commitment of the technical staff in SMRN, 
particularly those involved in the implementation of the Legal and Institutional Framework Study and 
the beneficiaries from the technical training component.  Other agencies, such as the 
sub-secretariats of Coastal and Marine Resources and Forest Resources, maintained a more critical 
attitude towards the methodology and results of the Diagnostic Study and the NEMP.  Nonetheless, 
the level of acceptance of the products of the Project is still incipient, and will largely depend on the 
signals that the highest levels of SMRN send out to the medium levels for assuming control and 
ownership of these results.  
·
Project objectives included increasing the knowledge and participation of civil society and the private 
- 30 -
Page  34
sector in the planning and implementation of environmental management.  The public consultation 
component of the Project’s original design called for integrating government authorities, NGOs, and 
the private sector at the initial stages of the Project, to ensure greater development impact and 
sustainability of results.  In practice, the involvement of civil society was mainly through the 
implementation of the pilot activities and in the 9 case studies used for the NEMP.  
·
The PCU invested efforts of its monitoring and evaluation capabilities in overseeing the performance 
of the Diagnostic study, which presented considerable implementation problems and delays from the 
start.  This demand on the PCU’s time resulted on a less exhaustive monitoring of the NEMP to 
assure the final overall quality of the study and its compliance with the established Terms of 
Reference.
·
Only one sector study was implemented due to delays in drafting the Terms of Reference for the 
identified studies, which included the establishment of a municipal network for environmental 
monitoring, the preparation of a guide of environmental principles for the mining industry 
·
It is advisable to tie contractually activities that will build upon results from other activities.  Likewise, 
contracts should be drafted stating that disbursements be based on outcomes, instead of time 
frames.
Component 2 - Pilot Activities
Main Findings
·
Management effectiveness of implementing agencies – the management capacities of NGOs played 
a crucial role in the outcome of the pilots’ objectives.  It is necessary to address this issue in future 
selection processes, and/or build-up the agencies’ capacities during the implementation process, 
particularly as it refers to participatory approaches, resource management, procurement and 
contracting, and financial and programmatic reporting.
·
Local presence of implementing agencies – NGOs unknown to the locals and with no physical 
presence in the community (i.e., CIECA, AEH, DNP, and CTSD) seemed to be less successful in 
engaging the involvement, participation, and sense of ownership of the civil society.
·
The one pilot managed by a government agency, the Model for Sustainable Ecotourism 
Management in Montecristi, was consistently held up by administrative constraints, including delays 
in disbursements, bureaucratic blockages, and frequent changes in Project management staff.  
Future selection processes need to consider the capacity for effective technical and financial 
administration of pilots managed by the public sector.
·
Sustainability as key selection criteria – all the pilots dealt with the problem of sustainability, 
including financial sustainability, at the end of the loan.  For future selection processes, it is 
necessary to consider adhering to realistic programmatic schedules and budgets, and carefully 
analyze the pilot’s sustainability strategy.  In general, pilots that responded to concrete and 
articulated local demands were able to present communities with palpable benefits.  This served as 
the necessary incentive for creating ownership and furthering the sustainability objective.  For 
example, the communities residing around the Guaconejo Hill Scientific Reserve could easily identify 
as their priority concern the need to develop economic activities in the buffer zone.  The pilot 
proposal for land use planning and zoning was truly responsive to local demand.  On the contrary, in 
the case of the Model for Sustainable Ecotourism Management in Montecristi, another management 
proposal for a protected area, there was no real local demand –or perceived benefits- for the 
adjoining community.
·
NGOs demanded more input and field missions than were provided by the PCU.  The stated 
objective of this component was to test innovative activities and mechanisms for finding solutions to 
priority environmental policy problems.  The innovative nature of the approaches called for closer 
monitoring and assistance from the PCU.  A common complaint of the NGOs was that the PCU 
could not adequately measure the pilot’s outcomes and performance by written reports alone.  The 
staff would have also benefited from workshops that addressed administrative issues such as small 
contract management, accounting practices, and reporting to donor agencies.
Component 3 - Building Capacity for Project Management and Providing Technical Training
The outcome of this component was satisfactory.  The activities were demand driven, responding to the 
capacity-building requirements of SMRN’s technical staff.  A number of activities were esteemed less
 
- 31 -
Page  35
relevant after the institutional-political change of 2000.  The new Secretariat kept most of the technical 
staff from INPRA and the other environmental agencies, thus the benefits from the activities
 
implemented between 1998 and 2000 were left in place.
Main Findings
·
The PCU could have profited from this component to gain further commitment from the highest 
levels in SMRN, as it provided a very useful and flexible instrument for the technical training of its 
staff.  In that sense, it would have been useful to agree on a rationalized strategy for the planning of 
the activities, involving SMRN political authorities and the Technical Committee (TC).
·
For the public information campaign, it was necessary to define early on, which was the target 
audience and what constitutes relevant content.  While the Project produced several bulletins and 
developed a website, the usefulness of this campaign is not evident.  The website’s content was not 
regularly updated and although it had an adequate design, it failed to address the demand of 
potential users, such as technical SMRN personnel, NGOs, scientific personnel, etc.  Initial Project 
design called for using the print media, radio, and television, as well as NGOs, private sector, and 
international organization bulletins to socialize Project outcomes.  NGOs and SMRN technical staff 
would have benefited from knowing what the other one was doing.  In that sense, it would have been 
important to divulge the achievements of the pilot activities, among SMRN staff and within other 
NGOs; likewise, the civil society and the private sector at large would have benefited to learn about 
the results of the key background studies and the realization of the NEMP.
Borrower Performance
The PCU was responsible for ensuring efficient and effective Project implementation.  Although the PCU 
drafted a proposal for an M&E system, which included a framework with key performance indicators, a
 
list of activities to be concluded by pre-established dates, and a chronogram for the implementation of 
the Project, it was not formally adopted into the Project’s Operating Manual.  The PCU monitored Project 
implementation through progress reports, on-site visits, communications and meetings with involved
 
actors, and evaluation of Project outputs.  It also produced numerous progress reports that extensively 
documented the implementation of the Project.  
Throughout the life of the Project, the PCU experienced numerous changes in the composition of its
 
staff, and was at times considerably understaffed.  These disruptions had an effect on the Project’s
 
outcomes particularly in reference to M&E tasks.  Pilot sub-projects demanded considerable monitoring
 
efforts from the PCU’s technical staff, and field visits were a recurring request.  The executing NGOs
 
often needed assistance in a number of subjects, ranging from contracting consultants and technical
 
studies to accounting and budget management practices.
In the early stages of the process, the key studies experienced significant implementation delays due to 
the fact that the TORs were not drafted timely, which delayed the contracting and negotiating process; 
there was also a considerable delay on the selection of the pilot projects, partly due to the fact that the
 
Project had no technical personnel, which delayed the drafting of the Operating Manual and the
 
formation of the Selection Committee; likewise, the drafting of the TORs for the sector studies was so
 
significantly delayed that only one was implemented. 
The Government did not interfere in operational decisions of the PCU.  Involvement was mainly through 
its participation in the Technical Committee, integrated by technical staff from the different
 
sub-secretariats.  
The Project conceived the establishment of two consulting units, the TC and the Advisory Commission
 
(AC), in compliance with the participative and democratic approach of the Project design.  The function 
of the AC was to promote commitment and participation of the private sector and civil society in the
 
reform process of environmental policies, and supervise Project implementation.  The PCU and the Bank 
agreed this was not necessary after SMRN was created.  The TC had the mandate of becoming directly 
involved in the selection, monitoring and evaluation of all Project activities.  The TC had regular activity 
throughout Project implementation.  Meetings were convened on the basis of necessity.  The Committee 
played an important role in the selection process for the pilot projects, drafting TORs for key studies, and 
revision of Project outputs.  Nonetheless, the Committee failed to effectively involve actors from the
 
- 32 -
Page  36
private sector and civil society.
Bank Performance
The Bank supervised the Project’s activities through field missions and regular communication with the
 
Project Coordinator.  Bank supervision was ample and flexible in suggesting and/or approving necessary 
modifications to secure project implementation within the established timetable. As a good partner the
 
Bank provided a close supervision to help to address timely and proactively the implementation
 
problems with the key background studies, particularly the Diagnostic Study, which the PCU’s technical 
staff detected and documented early on in regular and extraordinary reports, especially when the PCU
 
was pressing the contractors to comply with the Study’s TORs and the scheduled products delivery. In
 
this regard there was consistency with the Bank’s safeguard policies. The Bank also provided
 
backstopping actions to guide the best as possible the PCU through the right path whenever it was
 
necessary to furnish valuable advise and consultation on contracting and financing specific activities,
 
especially for Pilot Projects and Building Capacity; Components 2 and 3 respectively. 
Recommendations
·
Promote government commitment and ownership of key studies.  The Bank should continue to 
monitor the ultimate outcome of the key studies, as measured by the extent to which SMRN makes 
use of these products in decision-making activities.
·
It is essential to engage early on the participation of all the actors involved in the environmental 
sector, particularly the civil society and the private sector. This would result in a greater level of 
acceptance of the activities and products generated by new interventions, and contribute to the 
sustainability of the processes generating a greater sense of ownership.
·
Promote a stronger and more formally established Technical/Advisory Committee to oversee project 
implementation and build consensus on the approach and scope of project activities.  This 
Committee would be crucial in engaging the involvement of the different sectors related to 
environmental management.
·
Physical location of the coordinating unit’s headquarters within the implementing agency might be 
helpful in fostering a closer working relationship with the technical staff and promoting ownership of 
the project.
·
It is necessary to establish early on a clearly defined monitoring and evaluation system for project 
implementation. 
·
Pilot activities, innovative in nature, need close monitoring and on-site supervision to address 
implementation problems and apply corrective measures in a timely and efficient manner.
·
It is necessary to promote information and communication efforts to disseminate lessons learned and 
best practices among the civil society (particularly environmental NGOs) and the public and private 
sectors.  The lessons learned from the pilot activities could be further socialized among other NGOs 
and SMRN staff.  Some of these pilots have contributed valuable elements for policy reform in 
subjects such as land use planning and zoning, participatory management of solid waste, and 
co-management of protected areas.  
·
Based on the findings of this Project, the Borrower suggests future studies address the following 
subjects: promoting public-private partnerships at local, regional, and national levels; inter-sectoral 
studies that analyze the relationships between the environment and the sectors of energy, tourism, 
and industry, among others; defining sectoral action plans and priorities for future investments in 
environmental management; developing economic tools for environmental management; and, 
decentralization of environmental management (including clear definition of the competencies, 
responsibilities, and budget allowances of the Municipal Environmental Units vis à vis the SMRN).
- 33 -
Page  37
Additional Annex 
9
. 
Summary of the Pilot Projects
To achieve one of its development objectives, the project financed the implementation of eight pilot
 
sub-projects that tested innovative activities and new mechanisms for finding solutions to priority
 
environmental policy problems, including: (i) innovative models for natural resource management; (ii)
 
increasing decentralization of environmental functions, (iii) public-private  partnerships; and (iv) creative
 
mechanisms for sustainable environmental management.  Not all of the projects tested each of these
 
criteria, and only those that tried out financing mechanisms were able to demonstrate the likelihood of
 
financial sustainability. The eight pilots subprojects were selected from among the 43 final proposals
 
submitted to the selection committee (although over 140 organizations submitted proposals and participated 
in the informative workshop including private-public sector partnerships, NGOs, and local government
 
teams).  This annex describes the main features of each of the pilot sub-projects, their achievements,
 
shortcomings, innovative approaches and sustainability. 
1. Land Use of the Buffer Zone Surrounding the Guaconejo Hill Scientific Reserve 
(
Ordenamiento 
Territorial de la Zona de Amortiguamiento de la Reserva Cientifica de la Loma Guaconejo
). 
Implementing Agency: Sociedad de Desarrollo Integral del Nordeste INC.
Objective
: To elaborate guidelines for land use planning and zoning in the buffer zone surrounding the
 
Guaconejo Hill Natural Reserve, through a consensus building process involving all area stakeholders.  
Components
: (i) Creation of a
 
Committee
 to manage the buffer area, with membership from public and
 
private institutions in the community; (ii) elaboration of a 
Participatory Rural Diagnostic
 (PRD), through a 
community participation process; (iii) elaboration of a
 
biological study
 of the area soils, fauna, and
 
vegetation; (iv) elaboration of a 
study on land ownership
; and (iv) development of a zoning proposal based 
on agro/ecological and socio-economic factors .
Achievements
: This sub-project 
achieved
 
its development objective through the following activities: 
·
Creation of a Management Committee, whose membership includes the majority of the national, local, 
public and private institutions relevant to the protected area, that has continued to function after project 
closure;  
·
Creation of Surveillance Committees, through an initiative from the neighboring communities, 
responsible for reporting violations on the buffer zone, that has continued to function after project 
closure;  
·
The elaboration of Participatory Rural Diagnostic to support the final zoning proposal and regulate 
natural resource use in the zone through a participatory process involving community members and 
local institutions;
·
Development of a methodology for land use planning, that has since been incorporated through a series 
of workshops by  SRMN into its official conceptual framework for protected areas; 
·
Development of innovative models to share management of natural resources among different public 
institutions and local grassroots organizations. 
·
Behavioral changes among the inhabitants of the buffer zone on the use of its resources (e.g. 
conservation and protection of natural resources).
Shortcomings
 include the following:
·
Despite the receiving new funding from Deutscher Entwicklungsdients to continue operations, the 
ability for these pilot activities to be financially self-sustaining is still in question.
- 34 -
Page  38
2. Basic environmental awareness through the provision of information, education and
 
communication in the provinces of
 
María Trinidad Sánchez
 and
 
Samaná
 (
Atención Primaria
 
Ambiental Mediante Acciones de Información, Educación y Comunicación
). 
Implementing Agency:
 
Centro de Trabajo Social Dominicano, IC
.
Objective and components
: To contribute to the protection of the environment and improvement of the
 
health conditions in these provinces, through: (i) the establishment of two networks of “Primary
 
Environmental Awareness” 
(
Redes de Atención Primaria Ambiental
 -APA) that would involve
 
approximately thirty local public and private institutions; (ii) the elaboration, through a participatory
 
process, of a environmental diagnostic 
(
Diagnóstico Ambiental Participativo
-DAP); and (iii) the creation
 
of an environmental monitoring system, and an information and education campaign. 
Achievements:
 The sub-project objectives were
 
achieved
, but the level of accomplishment varied between
 
the participating towns. In general, the project contributed to: 
·
Formally establishing two multi-sectoral networks (APA) that completed their work programs;
·
Improving the quality and increasing the amount of information on local environmental awareness, with 
particular success in Nagua, where a radio program effectively disseminated information on good 
management and conservation practices with concrete results.  This program may be replicated in other 
parts of the country;
·
Education campaign that mainstreamed environmental materials into the curriculum of several schools.  
Shortcomings
 include the following:
·
Delays in carrying out the DAP, which prevented the successful execution of monitoring activities;
·
Failure of the multi-sectoral networks as planned (only a network in Samana was developed) to define 
a clear structure and systematic planning to advance in the implementation of the work program; and
·
Failure to forge strategic financial and institutional alliances with key stakeholders (i.e. health and 
private sector) to address local environmental problems and execute planned activities, due largely to 
the weak presence of the NGO in the community.  This may threaten the sustainability of project 
achievements.
 
3. A Comprehensive System for Solid Waste Collection (
Sistema Integral de Recolección de Desechos 
Sólidos
)
.  Implementing Agency: 
Instituto Dominicano de Desarrollo Integral
. 
Objectives and components
: To create a sustainable, comprehensive system for the collection of  household 
solid waste, involving community participation of two marginal neighborhoods in the western part of Santo 
Domingo 
(
El Café y La Mina
).  The project’s strategy included: (i) active community participation; (ii)
 
decentralization of the collection service; and (iii) activities to protect the green areas surrounding the
 
neighborhoods.  The sub-project also contemplated the implementation of education and information
 
campaigns, as well as the creation of a community-based enterprise for the collection of solid waste.  
Achievements
: This sub-project successfully 
achieved
 
its objectives through the following activities:
·
Creating a financially sustainable, community micro-enterprise capable of providing satisfactory 
collection services; 
·
Built significant community participation through an education campaign that effectively reduced litter 
- 35 -
Page  39
and generally helped improve health conditions in the neighborhoods,  the dissemination of the National 
Environmental Law highlighting sections of relevance to the community, and the strengthening of 
intersectoral relationships between the municipality, private service operator and the community; 
·
Established an agreement between the neighborhoods of El Café y La Mina and the private service 
providers for the collection and disposal of the garbage;
·
Created an Environmental Management Committee to protect green areas in and around the 
neighborhoods;   
·
At project closing, 44% of the costs of garbage collection were covered by community collected funds, 
suggesting that future sustainable operation may be possible.
Shortcomings
 include the following: 
·
Failure to reach a final agreement between the private service provider and the Santo Domingo 
municipality on buying the garbage collected by the community micro-enterprise, as originally planned. 
As pointed out above, however, the agreement was ultimately made between the neighborhoods of El 
Café y La Mina and the private service providers for the collection and disposal of the garbage.
4. Environmental Monitoring Network in Santiago 
(
Red  Monitoreo Ambiental en la Ciudad de
 
Santiago
).   Implementing Agency: 
Centro de Estudios Urbanos y Regionales
.
 
Objectives and components
: To establish a participatory system of integrated environmental units (eight) to 
monitor the major environmental degradation occurring in the city of Santiago de los Caballeros. 
Achievements:
 The project successfully 
achieved
 
its objectives through the following activities:
·
Creation of an integrated and highly participatory environmental monitoring system that used 
innovative software to manage environmental data collected by six environmental units located in 
different parts of the city;  
·
Provided policymakers with information and policy tools that improved oversight and control of 
polluting industries;
·
Greater awareness in the population on the city’s main environmental problems through publishing the 
results of the pilot in national newspapers and the Chamber of Commerce of Santiago, the printing of 
posters and stickers on the activities accomplished by the project, and environmental meetings held 
throughout the country on project achievements.  Several municipalities (such as La Vega and the 
Dominican Federation of Municipalities –FEDOMU) have shown interest in replicating this 
environmental management system.   
Shortcomings
 include the following:
·
Only six of the eight units were established and five of the six inter-institutional cooperation 
agreements were signed. 
·
Environmental zoning guidelines for urban areas (
Guía normativa de ordenamiento ambiental urbano
) were developed but not yet implemented by the municipality;
·
Although testing financing mechanism was not an objective of this pilot, it failed to secure sustainable 
financing to continue operation of the monitoring units. 
5. Management of Solid Waste in the city of Sabaneta (
Manejo Integral de los Desechos Sólidos de la 
Ciudad de Sabaneta). 
Implementing Agency: Municipality of Sabaneta.
Objective and components
:  To establish a comprehensive system of solid waste management in Sabaneta.  
The sub-project sought to provide comprehensive management of urban solid waste, seeking that, at least 
- 36 -
Page  40
50% of the population would use solid waste collection practices, in a partnership between the municipality 
and civil society which contributed in making necessary modifications to the provision of the sanitation
 
services.  
Achievements
:  This sub-project 
achieved
 its objective through the following activities:
·
Creation of a system for solid waste collection by the municipality and community in partnership  As 
of the conclusion of the project, 35% of the city population was using solid waste collection practices, 
addressing irregular collection and open-air dumpsters;
·
Creation (including the necessary regulations) of a Department for Solid Waste Management and a 
Monitoring Committee within the municipality. The Monitoring Committee has been in charge of the 
creation of a “corporation” responsible for waste management.  Members of the Committee comprised 
NGOs, community representatives, private companies and governmental organizations; 
·
Training civil society and municipal personnel;
·
Communications campaign to promote and describe the system on radio and television, (municipalities 
have shown interest in replicating this particular activity).
Shortcomings
 include the following:
·
Failure to fully implement recycling and composting system (only partially in operation);
·
A system for collecting income was developed, however, it is uncertain if this has been applied after the 
pilot to generate funds by the subscription of contracts, payment of fees and financial contributions 
from the municipality, threatening the sustainability of pilot achievements. 
6. 
Model of Sustainable Ecotourism Management in Montecristi 
(
Modelo de Gestión Ecoturistica
 
Sostenible en el Morro de Montecristi)
. Implementation Agency:
 
Subsecretaria de Estado de Areas
 
Protegidas y Biodiversidad. 
Objective and components
: To create a model for decentralized management of sustainable ecotourism in a 
protected area, with participation from local civil society.  SMRN’s Subsecretariat of Protected Areas
 
served as the executing agent for this project.  
Achievements
:  This pilot did 
not achieve
 the majority of its development objectives, but it was successful 
in completing the following activities: 
·
Basic infrastructure improvements to the Montecristi National Park to provide greater access and 
ensure more sustainable use (visitors center, picnic areas, walking paths, etc);
·
Establishing a monitoring system to prevent further urban construction within the park;  
·
Developing and disseminating promotional material for the National Park;
·
Tours and education programs to visitors on the environment and unique natural resources of the park.    
Shortcomings
 include the following:
·
Failure to establish new models for management of sustainable ecotourism, having no impact on policy 
formulation for national park management at the national level;
·
Failure to complete all of the planned infrastructure improvements;
·
Failure to create the Committee for tourist promotion and the park guide association;
·
Conflicts in the distribution of resources between the Subsecretariat of Protected Areas (monitoring 
and maintenance) and the Subsecretariat of Administrative Matters (park management) hindered 
efficient project management;
·
Lack of participation from the community, civil society and the private sector.
- 37 -
Page  41
7. Participation of Local Authorities and Civil Society in the Management of  Solid Waste in Boca
 
Chica.
  (Participación de las Autoridades Locales y Sectores de la Sociedad Civil en la Gestión de los 
Residuos Sólidos en Boca Chica
)
.  Implementing Agency: Centro de Investigación Económica para el
 
Caribe -CIECA
Objective and components
: The project’s objective was to create a program to manage solid waste, with
 
participation of all local stakeholders. To achieve the objective, the project envisioned three key
 
components: (i) elaboration of an action plan; (ii) development of a contingent valuation assessment and a 
cost-benefit analysis; and (iii) launching of an information and education campaign. 
Achievements
: This pilot
 achieved 
its development objective through the following activities: 
·
Designed an action plan for the implementation of a system for solid waste management, with a set of 
indicators for sustainable development;
·
Built local public awareness and knowledge, through television advertisements, brochures and 
publications 
·
Established a Management Committee and a co-managed system for solid waste management 
supported by the participation of community, municipality and central government representatives; 
·
Built consensus among different stakeholders, using preventive methodologies and conflict resolution 
techniques.
Shortcomings
 included the following:
·
Failure to obtain the required municipal approval necessary to establish the solid waste management 
program, calling into question the sustainability of the pilot;
·
Failure to receive assurances from the private service company to expand and continue its services to 
meet the neighborhoods needs.
8.
 
Unit of Eco-efficiency in Herrera (
Unidad de Ecoeficiencia de Herrera).
 
Implementing Agency: 
Asociación De Empresas Industriales de Herrera -
AEH
    
Objective and components
: To create an eco-efficiency culture among the industrial zone, and support the
 
industries to develop environmental management systems, influencing the environmental practices of the
 
main private companies operating in the area.  The project aimed to promote recycling, reuse, and other
 
environmental protection practices through an information campaign, and to build private sector awareness 
on the importance of environmental responsibility and the benefits of environmental management systems.   
Achievements
: The project did
 
not achieve
 the majority of its objectives, but it was successful in
 
completing the following activities: 
·
Creation of an eco-efficiency unit (UEE), with a concrete business plan, with a mandate to provide 
advice to private companies on environmental improvement of business practices; 
·
Development of a baseline of environmental indicators (deriving from commercial, residential or 
industrial) for: (a) participating corporation’s which would carry out an environmental audits; and (b) 
the application of corrective measures to improve the environmental situation in industrial areas;
·
Elaboration of proposals to offer environmental audit services and mitigation measures, with case 
studies to be completed by the UEE.
- 38 -
Page  42
Shortcomings
 include the following:  
·
Lack of commitment from the private sector participants to participate and change business practices;
·
Delays in execution hindered the level of engagement with private industry in the Herrera area;
·
Failure to enter meaningful discussions with the private sector to address environmental problems for 
the area;
·
Failure of the UEH to execute its business plan.
- 39 -
Page  43
Additional Annex 
10
. 
List of Capacity Building Activities Financed by the Project
Courses/Workshops
Time
Participants
Project launching workshop
March 1999
100-150
Workshop on “Assessment on Natural 
Resources Policy Formulation”  - 
COSERENAMA/GTZ
April 1999
40
Workshop on Strategic Planning
INPRA/ONAPLAN
July 1999
45
Workshop on identification of themes 
for the pilot sub-projects
August 1999
30
Workshop on Forestry Policy: 
formulation, design and
 
evaluation.
CONATEF/FAO
September 1999
40
Environmental Photo Competition
“Ecologia 2000” – 
ONAPLAN/INPRA
Nov. 1999-Feb. 2000
National Coverage
Orientation Workshop for Applicants 
to the Pilot Sub-projects
Nov. 2000
125
Workshop on the Forestry Law 
(118-99) and by-laws.
February 2000
100
Workshop on EIA processes: 
interagency public consultation
March 2000
46
Workshop on EIA process: public 
participation consultation
March 2000
23
Workshop/consultation with political 
parties on the Draft for the National 
Environmental Law
March 2000
31
Conference on EIA for Top Managers 
at SMRN
April 2000
47
Seminar of the Committee for Policy 
Formulation on Solid Waste in the DR
Dec. 1999
20
Selection Committee of the Pilot 
Sub-projects – 1st  Meeting
Jan/Feb. 2000 
20
Selection Committee of the Pilot 
Sub-projects –2nd /3rd Meeting
April/June 2000
20
Participation of INPRA staff in course 
on coastal areas.
July 2000
1
Workshop to launch the pilot 
subproject of M. Trinidad Sanchez 
and Samana.
June 2000
80
Workshop for pilot subprojects 
signature 
June 2000
60
Workshop on Strategic Environmental 
Assessment
April 2000
25
1st  Workshop to monitor and 
Evaluate the pilot sub-projects
Sept. 2000
30
Course on “ Environmental Law 
Implementation”
July/Aug. 2000
1
Conference on “Forestry policy 
development in Costa Rica”  
June 2000
100
“Consultation to Political Parties on 
the Draft text of the National 
Environmental Law”  
March 2000
23
Workshop on “ Legal and Conceptual 
Nov/Dec. 2000
350
- 40 -
Page  44
Framework of the Department of 
Environmental Management”
Workshop for the Mid-term Review of 
the Pilot Subprojects
Dec. 2000
30
Course on “ Design and Analysis of 
the project on biodiversity 
management” 
Jan. 2001
1
Workshop on the Pilot Subprojects – 
Mid term review- Santiago de los 
Caballeros
Dec. 2001
32
Course “ ISO14000” -Sweden
March 2001
1
Workshop for Regional Experts of the 
Department of Soil and Water
March 2001
55
3rd Workshop to monitor the pilot sub 
projects
March 2001
33
Seminar on Impact Assessment in the 
Urban Context”, Cartagena de Indias 
May/June 2001
1
Course on Air Quality in Latin 
American Cities
May-July 2001
1
Workshops on Environmental 
Education, Natural Resources 
Conservation, Fires and First Aid” 
August-Sept. 2001
55
Seminars on (i) Environmental 
Management Models”; (ii) 
Environmental Evaluations.  
Aug. 2001
165
Workshop on the norms for the 
extraction of aggregates 
“ Normas 
para la Extraccion de Agregados de 
la Corteza Terrestre”
  
Dec. 2001
20
Presentation/Workshop of the Sectoral 
Study on Soil Erosion – Dr. Naggle
Nov. 2001
40
Workshop to discuss Draft Legislation 
for Potable Water Supply and 
Sanitation.
Nov. 2001
20
Conference/presentation of the NEMP
Jan. 2002
50
Course on Conservation and 
Management of Watershed 
April 2002
20
Course for Administration and 
Surveillance staff in the Department 
of Protected Areas.
May-June 2002
85
Course on Marine Biology
May 2002
20
Course on Strategic Environmental 
Assessments in the Mining and 
Energy 
June
85
Workshops on “ Environmental 
Services Providers” 
June 2002
92
Course on Environmental Audits
June 2002
30
Participation in a WB Course   on 
Environmental and Social Policies
June 2002
2
Workshops to integrate the NEMP – 
Working workshops of the Technical 
Committee
April/June 2002
91
- 41 -
