                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                         Report No.: AB7115
 Project Name                 Accelerated Food Security Project Additional Financing
 Region                       AFRICA
 Country                      Tanzania
 Sector                       Crops (100%)
 Project ID                   P132780
 Parent Project ID            P114291
 Borrower(s)                  UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                              The United Republic of Tanzania
                              M. Muya
                              Permanent Secretary
                              and Cooperatives
                              Tanzania
                              Tel: 255-22-2862064 Fax: 255-22-28620675
                              psk@kilimo.go.tz
 Implementing Agency
                              Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives
                              Tanzania
                              Tel: 255-22-2862064 Fax: 255-22-28620675
                              psk@kilimo.go.tz
 Environment Category         [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared            August 8, 2012
 Date of Appraisal            August 24, 2012
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval       October 25, 2012

1. Country and Sector Background
Almost 80 percent of Tanzanian households depend on agriculture as their primary economic
activity. Agriculture is correspondingly identified as a priority contributor to economic growth,
poverty alleviation, and food security. Development objectives relating to agricultural
productivity growth and food security are highlighted in the country’s National Strategy for
Growth and Reduction of Poverty (Kiswahili acronym MKUKUTA II), the Tanzania Long Term
Perspective Plan 2011/12-2025/26, and the Tanzania Five Year Development Plan 2011/12-
2015/16. These objectives are also identified in the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).

Tanzania’s agricultural sector priorities have most recently been outlined in the Tanzania
Agriculture and Food Security Investment Programme (TAFSIP), which is part of the country’s
Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP). The TAFSIP calls for
the expansion of input subsidies to all regions of the country as a means to support productivity
growth by the country’s smallholders.

2. Objectives
The main Project Development Objective (PDO) of the parent Accelerated Food Security Project
(AFSP) is to contribute to higher food production and productivity in targeted areas by
improving farmers’ access to critical agricultural inputs. This PDO will remain under this
Additional Financing (AF).

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement
The AF would support the scale up of an agricultural input subsidy which has successfully
contributed to the expansion of maize and rice production in the country, the improvement of
national food security, and the withdrawal of an export ban on grains trade. Specifically, the AF
would finance a 30 percent increase in the number of farmers receiving input subsidies during
the 2012/13 cropping season. This expansion in program coverage is critically important in the
context of high international fertilizer prices, and rising international grain prices. The funding
would help Tanzania maintain self-sufficiency in grain production.

4. Description
The parent AFSP has three components: (i) Improving access to agricultural inputs (fertilizer and
seed); (ii) Strengthening input supply chains; and (iii) Project management and monitoring and
evaluation (M&E).

Component 1 "Access to agricultural inputs (fertilizers and seeds)" supports (i) the scaling-up the
on-going National Agricultural Input Voucher Scheme (NAIVS); and (ii) improving farmers’
awareness, information and participation in NAIVS. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security
and Cooperatives (MAFC) estimates that approximately one million farm households have
received agricultural inputs for one or two years, but not the three years originally mandated in
the program design. Government resources are expected to be adequate to support 640,000 of
these households, and the additional financing will support 300,000 more farmers.

Component 2 "Strengthening of input supply chain" supports farmers’ access to improved
agricultural inputs by: (i) strengthening and widening of the agro-dealer network through training
and capacity building; and (ii) strengthening national seed systems to improve the availability of
quality seeds for maize, rice and other crop species. These are continuing activities with the
parent project funding.

Component 3 "Project management and monitoring and impact evaluation" supports the program
management, regular monitoring of its progress and rigorous impact evaluation of its outcomes.
This component is also continuing with the parent project funding.

The AF will scale up the provision of agricultural input vouchers under Component 1.
Specifically, this will support the provision of input subsidies to approximately 300,000
additional farm households during the 2012/13 cropping season.

Existing AFSP funds will support the completion of all other project activities including the
completion of an awareness campaign for the 2012/13 season, continuing strengthening of input
supply systems, and continuing monitoring and evaluation.
5. Financing
Source:                                                                             (US$m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                     0
International Development Association (IDA)                                           25
                                                                         Total        25

6. Implementation
There are no significant changes planned in the institutional and implementation arrangements as
laid out and applied for the parent project. The targeting of the input voucher for the 2012/13
season will be identical to the strategy agreed and funded for the 2011/12 season. Farmers will
continue to redeem their vouchers with local agro-dealers. In 2011/12, the agro-dealers were
selected by district officials. This year local agro-dealers are being selected by wholesalers who
are expected to provide inputs on credit – thus speeding the flow of inputs to rural communities.
The subsidy payments will correspondingly be made directly to the seed and fertilizer
wholesalers in order to partially pay off this credit. In addition, the project will design and test an
electronic voucher system with an expected 5,000 to 10,000 small-scale farmers. The primary
responsibility for implementing all project activities still lies with the MAFC. Ministry staff will
continue to receive local support from regional, district and village voucher committees.

7. Sustainability
The NAIVS was originally defined as a six year program operational between 2008/09 and
2013/14. At the end of this period, it is expected that at least 2.5 million farmers will be well
enough acquainted with the payoffs to improved input use that they will continue to purchase
these inputs on their own. Further, a significant portion of the over 2300 agro-dealers trained and
participating in the program will continue to provide seed and fertilizer inputs to rural
communities. These assumptions are now being tested as the first generation of subsidy
recipients graduate from the program.

The gains achieved in technology adoption, productivity growth and production growth under
the NAIVS, have stimulated government interest in extending the coverage of the input subsidy
over time and space. The NAIVS has already been extended to encompass every region of the
country. The intention to maintain the subsidy for a longer period has been stated in the recently
approved TAFSIP. But the fiscal costs of these extensions are high. Therefore, government is
exploring opportunities to improve the efficiency of the program through the use of electronic
vouchers. Options are also being discussed for expanding rural credit and further strengthening
of commercial input supply chains.

8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The AFSP has successfully contributed to higher food production and productivity in targeted
areas of Tanzania by improving farmers’ access to critical agricultural inputs. During the last
three years, the project has distributed more than 15 million input vouchers to over 2.5 million
farm households, supporting the purchase and application of over 500,000 tons of fertilizer, and
over 50,000 tons of improved seed. These inputs have supported the production of at least 1.5
million tons of additional maize, reducing the country’s dependence on grain imports and food
aid. The expanded maize production made possible by this project led to the lifting of the grains
trade ban in late 2011.
9. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)
Overall the Project is rated as environmental category B. The potential impacts from increased
use of fertilizer are local and widespread. “Local? impacts imply that these substances may
directly affect soil ecosystems in the immediate vicinity where they are used, and “widespread?
impacts refer to potential non-point source pollution effects on ground and surface water
resources.

The parent AFSP project applies the Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF), which was originally developed for the Agricultural Sector Development Project
(ASDP). This ESMF is deemed to be adequate to cover environmental and social issues raised by
this AF. The parent project also had an Integrated Nutrient Management Plan (INMP) which is
likewise deemed adequate. The latest implementation support mission for the AFSP notes that
Kiswahili versions of the INMP are being used in farmer training at local level. In addition, a
formal diagnostic survey was conducted to test the impact of fertilizer application on surface
/ground water supplies in the five main regions of project implementation. This reveals no nitrate
contamination attributable to the project implementation. This commitment continues to apply
the same safeguard instruments as for the parent ASDP.

10. List of Factual Technical Documents


11. Contact point
Contact: David Rohrbach
Title: Senior Agriculture Economist
Tel: +255-22-216-3200
Email: drohrbach@worldbank.org
Location: Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania (IBRD)

12. For more information contact:
       The InfoShop
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 458-4500
       Fax: (202) 522-1500
       Email: pic@worldbank.org
       Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
