                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          Report No: 71677-TZ




                                     PROJECT PAPER

                                           ON A

                           PROPOSED ADDITIONAL CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.5 MILLION
                            (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                           UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                         FOR THE

                      ACCELERATED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT

                                      October 2, 2012




Agriculture Rural Development and Irrigation (AFTA3)
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department 1
Africa Region



     This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
     performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
     World Bank authorization.
          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
  (Exchange Rate Effective {September 18, 2012})
          Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
              Tsh 1570 = US$1
                 US$ 1 = SDR 0.657


                 FISCAL YEAR
                 July 1 – June 30


        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF            Additional Financing
AFSP          Accelerated Food Security Project
ASA           Agriculture Seed Agency
ASDP          Agricultural Sector Development Project
BP            Bank Procedure
CAADP         Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development
              Programme
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DAP           Diammonium phosphate
ESMF          Environmental and Social Management Framework
FM            Financial management
FY            Fiscal year
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GoT           Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
ha            Hectare
IBRD          International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
IDA           International Development Association
IF            Implementing Framework
IFR           Interim Financial Report
IMF           International Monetary Fund
INMP          Integrated Nutrient Management Plan
IRR           Internal Rate of Return
ISDS          Integrated Safeguards Datasheet
LGA           Local Government Authority
M&E           Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives
MAFC          Monitoring and Evaluation
MKUKUTA       Mkakati wa Kukuza Uchumi na Kupunguza Umaskini
              Tanzania
MTEF          Medium Term Expenditure Framework
N             Nitrogen
NAIVS         National Agricultural Input Voucher Scheme
NAO           National Audit Office
NPV           Net Present Value

                        i
NYD            Not Yet Due
OP             Operational Policy
OPV            Open Pollinated Variety
ORAF           Operational Risk Assessment Framework
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PDO            Project Development Objective
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PIM            Project Implementation Manual
PRSC           Poverty Reduction Support Credit
QDS            Quality Declared Seed
SIL            Specific Investment Loan
TAFSIP         Tanzania Agriculture and Food Security Investment
               Programme




            Vice President:    Makhtar Diop
          Country Director:    Philippe Dongier
           Sector Manager:     Tijan Sallah
         Task Team Leader:     David Rohrbach




                         ii
                                          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                 ACCELERATED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
                                       ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                              CONTENTS

Additional Financing Data Sheet
I. Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 1
II. Background and Rationale for AF ............................................................................................ 1
III. Proposed Changes ..................................................................................................................... 5
IV. Appraisal Summary .................................................................................................................. 9
Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring............................................................................. 13
Annex 2: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) ..................................................... 18
Annex 3: Project Cost Table by Component and Sub-Component ............................................. 21
Annex 4: Country at a Glance ...................................................................................................... 22
Annex 5: Map .............................................................................................................................. 25

Tables and Figures
Table 1. Number of smallholder farmers participating in the National Agricultural Input Voucher
Scheme (NAIVS), 2008/09 to 2013/14........................................................................................... 4
Table 2. Revised AFSP Financing Plan ......................................................................................... 6




                                                                       iii
                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                     ACCELERATED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
                      ADDITIONAL FINANCING DATA SHEET

                           Basic Information - Additional Financing (AF)
       Country Director: Philippe Dongier              Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and
       Sector Manager/Director: Tijan                  forestry sector (100%)
      Sallah/Jamal Saghir                              Themes: Rural Development
      Team Leader: David Rohrbach                      Environmental category: B
      Project ID: P132780                              Expected Closing Date: 12/31/13
      Expected Effectiveness Date: 11/30/12
      Lending Instrument: SIL
       Additional Financing Type: Scale up,
       restructuring
                                Basic Information - Original Project
       Project ID: P114291                             Environmental category: B, Partial
                                                       Assessment
       Project Name: Accelerated Food                  Expected Closing Date: 12/31/13
       Security Project
       Lending Instrument: SIL
                                     AF Project Financing Data
       [ ] Loan [ x ] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:
Proposed terms: IDA standard terms of 40 years maturity, including a grace period of 10 years.
                                     AF Financing Plan (US$m)
                        Source                                  Total Amount (US $m)
       Total Project Cost:                                                25.00
          Cofinancing:                                                     0.00
          Borrower:                                                        0.00
          Total Bank Financing:                                           25.00
              IBRD                                                         0.00
              IDA                                                         25.00
                 New                                                      25.00
                 Recommitted                                               0.00
                                         Client Information
       Recipient: United Republic of Tanzania
       Responsible Agency: Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives
      Contact Person: M. Muya, Permanent Secretary
      Telephone No.: 255-22-2862064
      Fax No.: 255-22-28620675
       Email: psk@kilimo.go.tz
                           AF Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
      FY                               2013           2014
      Annual                              20               5
      Cumulative                          20              25
                           Project Development Objective and Description


                                              iv
Original project development objective: To contribute to higher food production and
productivity in targeted areas by improving farmers’ access to critical agricultural inputs.

Revised project development objective [if applicable]: no change

Project description: The original project has three components:
Component 1. Improving Access to Agricultural Inputs encompasses the provision of
agricultural input vouchers to eligible farmers in targeted areas to purchase seeds and
fertilizer, as well as the improvement of farmers’ awareness of the input voucher program
and training for Village Voucher Committees.

Component 2. Strengthening the Input Supply Chain encompasses capacity building
activities aimed at assisting agro-dealers to improve their customer service provision,
creating linkages to input supply companies, and building smallholder demand for
improved inputs. In addition, this component strengthens national seed systems through i)
reviewing and updating of the national seed policy and regulatory framework, including
developing a seed sub-sector strategy; ii) stimulating business-oriented farmer-based seed
production and marketing units; iii) providing irrigation and field equipment, cold seed
storage facilities and seed cleaning equipment to three Agricultural Research Institutes to
support the production of pre-basic seed; and iv) providing irrigation equipment, storage
facilities, farm implements, seed cleaning equipment and transport equipment to the
Agricultural Seed Agency (ASA) to support production of high quality basic seed.

Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring and Impact Evaluation encompasses
support for project management, coordination and implementation, as well as the conduct
of monitoring and evaluation activities.

The proposed additional credit will scale up the provision of agricultural input vouchers
under Component 1. Specifically, this will support the provision of input subsidies to
approximately 300,000 additional farm households during the 2012/13 cropping season.

Existing project funds will support the completion of all other project activities including
the completion of an awareness campaign for the 2012/13 season, continuing
strengthening of input supply systems, and continuing monitoring and evaluation.




                                         v
                                 Safeguard and Exception to Policies
       Safeguard policies triggered:
       Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                              [x]Yes [ ] No
       Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                      [ ]Yes [x] No
       Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                               [ ]Yes [x] No
       Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          [x]Yes [x] No
       Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                           [ ]Yes [x] No
       Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                    [ ]Yes [x] No
       Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                              [ ]Yes [x] No
       Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                        [ ]Yes [x] No
       Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                   [x]Yes [ ] No
       Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                            [ ]Yes [x] No
       Does the project require any waivers of Bank policies?             [ ]Yes [x] No
       Have these been endorsed or approved by Bank management?           [ ]Yes [x] No

                                  Conditions and Legal Covenants:
    Financing Agreement                  Description of                   Date Due
          Reference                   Condition/Covenant
Schedule II, Section IV, Part   No withdrawal shall be made    To be confirmed during
B Withdrawal Conditions,        of the Additional Credit       implementation
Paragraph 1b                    except for payments in respect
                                of Agricultural Input
                                Vouchers issued to farmers in
                                the following Regions of the
                                Recipient: (i) Pwani; (ii)
                                Mtwara; (iii) Lindi; (iv)
                                Arusha; (v) Manyara; and (vi)
                                Kilimanjaro and in accordance
                                with the procedures set forth
                                in the PIM.




                                             vi
I. Introduction
1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
credit in an amount of SDR16.5 million (US$25 million equivalent) to the United Republic of
Tanzania for the Accelerated Food Security Project (AFSP) (P114291) (Credit number 4619-
TA). This will be the project’s first Additional Financing (AF).

2.      The proposed AF will support the scale up of an agricultural input subsidy which has
successfully contributed to the expansion of maize and rice production in the country, the
improvement of national food security, and the withdrawal of an export ban on grains trade.
Specifically, the AF will finance a 30 percent increase in the number of farmers receiving input
subsidies during the 2012/13 cropping season. This expansion in program coverage is critically
important in the context of high international fertilizer prices, and rising international grain
prices. The funding will help Tanzania maintain self-sufficiency on grain production.

3.      The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania (GoT) has requested continuing
International Development Association (IDA) support for its input subsidy program 1. This was
anticipated in the Tanzania Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), with the expectation that the
commitment would be defined within the next phase of the Agricultural Sector Development
Project (ASDP). However, the development of this commitment has been postponed to allow for
a more strategic review of sectoral coordination and performance. The new ASDP funding is
now only expected to be available in late 2013. The AF will support the maintenance of the
subsidy program during the 2012/13 gap year. The AF is congruent with Pillar 2 the Bank’s
Africa Strategy2.

4.      In complement to this AF, the Country Director has approved the extension of the closing
date for the original credit to December 31, 2013.

II. Background and Rationale for AF in the amount of US$25 million

5.      Country Context: Almost 80 percent of Tanzanian households depend on agriculture as
their primary economic activity. Agriculture is correspondingly identified as a priority
contributor to economic growth, poverty alleviation, and food security. Development objectives
relating to agricultural productivity growth and food security are highlighted in the country’s
National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (Kiswahili acronym MKUKUTA II), the
Tanzania Long Term Perspective Plan 2011/12-2025/26, and the Tanzania Five Year
Development Plan 2011/12-2015/16. These objectives are also identified in the Bank’s CAS
approved by the Executive Directors on May 9, 2011.

6.     Sector Policy and Strategy: Tanzania’s agricultural sector priorities have most recently
been outlined in the Tanzania Agriculture and Food Security Investment Programme (TAFSIP),
which is part of the country’s Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme
(CAADP). The TAFSIP calls for the expansion of input subsidies to all regions of the country as

1
  This request was recently repeated by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania in discussions with the
World Bank’s Vice President for the Africa Region.
2
  Pillar 2 of the Africa Strategy is “Vulnerability and Resilience?.

                                                         1
a means to support productivity growth by the country’s smallholders. Food and nutrition
security is one of seven pillars in the TAFSIP.

7.      Original Credit: The original credit for the AFSP, in the amount of SDR 107.6 million
(US$160 million equivalent), was approved by the Board as an Emergency Recovery Operation
under Global Food Crisis Response Program guidelines on June 9, 2009. This project became
effective on August 26, 2009. As of July 20, 2012, 95 percent of this funding had been disbursed.

8.     The original closing date for the project was June 30, 2012. In June 2012, the closing date
was extended for one year to allow for the completion of subsidy payments for the 2011/12
cropping season, and the completion of outstanding procurements.

9.      The original Project aimed to provide input subsidies to 2.5 million farm households on a
rotating basis over a six year period. Each farmer was expected to receive assistance for three
consecutive years. To date, an estimated 1.5 million households have received three consecutive
years of subsidy support, and over one million have received assistance for only one or two
years. The Government paid the full program costs in year one. IDA funding has contributed to
the subsidies in years two, three and four. Approximately 87 percent of the original IDA funding
for the AFSP was allocated to the costs of implementing this subsidy programme. Most of the
remaining 13 percent of funding was committed to strengthening input supply systems through
technical assistance to agro-dealers and funding for the improvement of national seed supply.
Approximately two percent of the budget was allocated to project management, monitoring and
evaluation.

10.     Overall Project Implementation Performance: The AFSP has successfully achieved its
Project Development Objective (PDO): to contribute to higher food production and productivity
in targeted areas by improving farmers’ access to critical agricultural inputs. During the last
three years, the project has distributed more than 15 million input vouchers to over 2.5 million
farm households, supporting the purchase and application of over 500,000 tons of fertilizer, and
over 50,000 tons of improved seed. These inputs have supported the production of at least 1.5
million tons of additional maize, reducing the country’s dependence on grain imports and food
aid. The expanded maize production made possible by this project led to the lifting of the grains
trade ban in late 2011.

11.     Project performance has been rated satisfactory for achieving the PDO over the past 24
months. The overall implementation progress is assessed as moderately satisfactory over the last
12 months. This lower rating reflects the delays in the receipt of counterpart funds, associated
delays in the payment of agro-dealers, and delays in the completion of project procurement.
However, the Government is now current on its counterpart contributions. Agro-dealer payments
for the 2011/12 cropping season are expected to be fully completed before the end of September
2012. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives (MAFC) is tracking the
level of accomplishment of its procurement efforts more strictly.

12.    Implementation of Component 1 - Improving Access to Agricultural Inputs: This
component supports government efforts to provide a 50 percent subsidy for seed and fertilizer
supply to 2.5 million smallholder farm households. The objective of the subsidy is to introduce

                                                2
farmers to the use of improved maize and rice seed, and the application of inorganic fertilizer.
Each farmer is expected to receive the subsidy for three consecutive years in order to strengthen
his or her knowledge of the value of improved seed and fertilizer inputs. At the end of the three
years, these farmers are expected to understand the level of productivity gain made possible by
these inputs. In addition, they are expected to have earned enough cash to continue purchasing
the inputs on their own. The three year subsidy is also expected to convince agro-dealers of the
demand for improved seed and fertilizer at village level. The initial recipients have now
graduated from the program, and impact surveys are underway to test whether these farmers are
continuing to purchase the inputs on their own.

13.    The MAFC has successfully printed and distributed three vouchers (one for maize or rice
seed, one for basal fertilizer 3 and one for top dress fertilizer 4) cumulatively to over six million
households 5. Trained agro-dealers have collected these vouchers, provided seed and fertilizer,
and then redeemed the vouchers with a local bank.

14.     The baseline impact assessment results indicate that the program is well targeted toward
the expected beneficiary households – fulltime farmers cultivating less than one hectare of maize
or rice who can afford the 50 percent top-up payment needed to redeem the voucher. These
encompass the majority of farmers in the targeted regions. The baseline results also indicate that
these farmers are achieving an average yield gain of 1.2 tons per hectare for maize and 0.6 tons
per hectare for rice. Since 95 percent of the vouchers have been allocated to maize inputs, this
gain represents the primary immediate return on the investment.

15.      The enthusiasm of farmers for the subsidy program has encouraged a more rapid
expansion than initially planned. The original project was designed to support subsidy provision
and input market development across 11 regions and 56 districts in the country. In practice, the
MAFC chose to expand the coverage to 23 regions (including 2 newly created regions) and 104
districts. This has effectively become a national program.

16.     The input subsidy was originally designed as a six year program starting in 2008/09 (one
year prior to the initiation of IDA support) and ending with the 2013/14 cropping season (Table
1). The IDA funding was targeted only to support the three years (2009/10, 2010/11 and
2011/12) of the six year program when the number of households participating was largest. As
stated in the CAADP TAFSIP, the GoT now seeks to extend the program coverage over a longer
period to the majority of smallholder farmers in the country.




3
  Applied at the time of planting most commonly in the form of diammonium phosphate (DAP) or rock phosphate.
4
  Normally, applied several weeks after seedling emergence, but prior to flowering in the form of urea.
5
  730,000 households in year one, 1.5 million households in year two, 2.0 million households in year three and 1.8
million households in year four.

                                                         3
Table 1. Number of smallholder farmers participating in the National Agricultural Input
Voucher Scheme (NAIVS), 2008/09 to 2013/14.
Cropping    2008/09      2009/10      2010/11      2011/12       2012/13      2013/14
season

Farmers               740,000        1,540,000        2,040,000         1,800,000        1,000,000           500,000
originally
targeted

Actual                730,667        1,511,900        2,000,000         1,779,800          940,000
recipients                                                                               (targeted)



17.     The main challenge encountered in implementation of the subsidy program has been
growing delays in the receipt of government financing for its share of the subsidy cost. During
the first two years of the AFSP, IDA financed 50 percent of the subsidy costs and the GoT
financed the remaining 50 percent. However, national budget constraints caused long delays in
the release of government funds in 2010/11. This, in turn, delayed the payment of agro-dealers,
leading approximately 10 percent to leave the program. For the 2011/12 season, IDA agreed to
pay 83 percent of the subsidy costs 6, leaving the government to pay only 17 percent of the total.
This exhausted the IDA funding for this activity.

18.    These government funding constraints raised questions about the sustainability of this
investment. During the first six months of 2012, several stakeholder meetings were convened to
discuss refinements in targeting and possible exit strategies. These discussions have focused on
two options – the adoption of electronic vouchers, and the possible subsidy of agricultural credit.
The project team has decided to design and pilot test an electronic voucher system over the next
12 months. This is expected to support better targeting of the assistance in relation to evolving
technology adoption objectives, variable levels of subsidy support, and a possible linkage of the
voucher with rural savings schemes.

19.     Implementation of Component 2 - Strengthening the Input Supply Chain: This component
of the AFSP has supported the training of more than 3,800 agro-dealers of whom more than
2,300 were selected to provide inputs in exchange for subsidy vouchers. Just over 2,000 of these
agro-dealers actively participated in the 2011/12 program. An additional year of agro-dealer
training is planned to further strengthen business skills, and the implementation of an estimated
1,000 demonstration trials highlighting seed and fertilizer choices. This is being financed from
funding available in the original project.

20.    The AFSP has also supported the strengthening of national seed production systems. The
production of pre-basic seed of maize has more than doubled. The production of basic seed of
maize and rice has increased almost fourfold. The production of quality declared seed (QDS) has
more than doubled. While the public sector still supplies virtually all of the national rice seed,

6
 This higher contribution was possible because the actual cost of subsidy provision in the first two years of the
project was lower than anticipated.

                                                          4
private sector production of maize seed has more than quadrupled and the country now produces
over 90 percent of its national maize seed requirements.

21.      The main challenge with this activity has been continuing delays in the procurement of
irrigation facilities and equipment for the national research stations and seed farms. The MAFC
procurement systems have moved slowly, and roughly US$5 million in goods, works and
equipment procurement remained outstanding when the project was originally due to close in
June 2012. One of the main reasons for extending the project by one year was to allow time to
complete these purchases. A stricter schedule has been defined in order to assure more timely
implementation and monitoring of the procurement plan.

22.    Implementation of Component 3 - Project Management and Monitoring and Impact
Evaluation: The AFSP credit has also financed the costs of project management systems,
monitoring of implementation and the evaluation of accomplishment. A main accomplishment of
this component was a baseline impact assessment which assured the management team of the
success of the input subsidy targeting and provided an independent measure of the yield gains
being achieved. Unfortunately, the second round of this impact assessment was also procured
late. The extension of the project assures the completion of this task. Complementary
assessments will also be conducted to better judge the gains achieved in strengthening input
supply chains.

23.     Future Funding Plans: IDA support for the AFSP was originally due to close on June 30,
2012, even though the implementation of the input subsidy program was expected to carry on for
an additional two years. By early 2011, it was evident that the success of the program had
encouraged interest to broaden the coverage to more areas and more crops over an extended
period of time. This proposal is mentioned in the CAADP TAFSIP, though the details of this
plan still need to be defined.

24.     The Tanzania CAS anticipated that new funding for a refined input subsidy program
could be made available under the next phase of the ASDP. The start of ASDP Phase II has been
marginally delayed, however, by the efforts of development partners to conduct a more thorough
assessment of results achieved during the first phase, and a review of opportunities for improving
the targeting of this multi-donor funding. This has created a gap year for input subsidy program
support. The AF will help resolve this gap by scaling up the funding available from the
Government’s own budget.

III. Proposed Changes

25.     The AF will finance one additional round of input subsidies for maize and rice farmers
who have yet to receive support for three consecutive years. The MAFC records show that
approximately one million farm households have received agricultural inputs for one or two
years, but not the mandated three. Government resources are expected to be adequate to support
640,000 of these households, and the AF will support 300,000 more farmers

26.    PDO: No changes are proposed in the project development objective.


                                                5
27.    Project Scope and Design: The principle change in project scope is to extend the input
subsidy to maize and rice farmers who have yet to receive three years of support for one
additional year.

28.      Implementation Arrangements: There are no significant changes planned in the
institutional and implementation arrangements for the project. The targeting of the input voucher
for the 2012/13 season will be identical to the strategy agreed and funded for the 2011/12 season.
Farmers will continue to redeem their vouchers with local agro-dealers. In 2011/12, the agro-
dealers were selected by district officials. This year local agro-dealers are being selected by
wholesalers who are expected to provide inputs on credit – thus speeding the flow of inputs to
rural communities. The subsidy payments will correspondingly be made directly to the seed and
fertilizer wholesalers in order to partially pay off this credit. In addition, the project will design
and test an electronic voucher system with an expected 5,000 to 10,000 small-scale farmers. The
primary responsibility for implementing all project activities still lies with the MAFC. Ministry
staff will continue to receive local support from regional, district and village voucher
committees.

29.   Project Costs: The change in project costs and financing to be shown in the Financing
Agreement is outlined in Table 2 below.

Table 2. Revised AFSP Financing Plan
Category (as per Financing      Original Budget          Additional      Revised Budget
Agreement)                           (US$)            Financing (US$)        (US$)
(1) Agricultural Input
Vouchers for Part 1(a) of        130,700,000            25,000,000        158,700,000
the Project.
(2) Non-consulting services
and goods for Part 1(a) of        8,400,000                 0               8,400,000
the Project
(3) Goods, works,
consultants’ services,
Training and Operating            20,900,000                0              17,900,000
Costs for Parts 1(b), 2 and 3
of the Project
Total                            160,000,000            25,000,000        185,000,000


30.    All of the AF is allocated to the costs of input subsidies for scaling up the number of
2012/13 season recipients. A limited reallocation of funding across components has already been
agreed in the original credit in order to resolve issues of under or over expenditure of specific
sub-component activities during the first three years of the project. These adjustments are
summarized in Annex 3.

31.    Counterpart Funding: When the AFSP was originally drafted, the team planned for IDA
and the GoT to equally share the costs of the input subsidy (Category 1 expenditures) and the

                                                  6
associated voucher printing, distribution and redemption costs directly related to this subsidy
(Category 2 expenditures). The Financing Agreement allowed a shift in the distribution of these
responsibilities depending on the status of available funds 7. During the first two years of the
project, the GoT paid 50 percent of the costs of Category 1 and Category 2 expenditures, as
planned. However, this allocation was adjusted in the third year of the project to take account of
the availability of funds remaining in the IDA allocation, and the government’s cash flow
constraints. As noted above, IDA funds were used to pay 83 percent of the subsidy costs
(Category 1) and 100 percent of the voucher printing, distribution and redemption costs
(Category 2) for the 2011/12 cropping season. This largely exhausts the IDA funding available
for the Category 1 and 2 accounts.

32.     The Tanzanian Parliament has recently passed a budget allocating Tsh75 billion (about
US$47 million) in Government funding for the subsidy program in 2012/13, including Tsh71
billion for the direct subsidy costs. If the AF is provided, then IDA funding may now account for
an estimated 35 percent of the funding for Category 1 and Category 2 expenditures.

33.    It is noted, however, that the GoT has been late, over the last two years, in delivering its
counterpart funding. This has delayed the payment of agro-dealers for the inputs provided, and
undermined the project’s efforts to build sustainable input supply systems. In view of this, the
GoT and IDA agree to monitor the level of outstanding voucher payment obligations, and the
timeliness of completing these payments, on a weekly basis for all districts covered by the
program.

34.    Closing Date: The closing date of the AF is December 31, 2013. In line with this, the
closing date for the original IDA credit is also changed to December 31, 2013. This coincides
with the FY14 timing for Board approval of the ASDP Phase II, which may provide additional
support for input subsidies during the 2013/14 cropping season.

35.      Results Framework: A limited set of changes is proposed in the Results Framework for
the AFSP (Annex 1 and Annex 2). The main change is to recognize that the regional targeting of
the input subsidy program has shifted from that anticipated when the project was originally
designed. In the first two years, the project targeted 56 districts in 11 regions of the country. By
the 2011/12 season, the program was distributed across 23 regions (including two newly created
entities) and 104 districts in the country. The original PDO indicators measured yield and
production gains for maize and rice across the 11 originally designated regions of the country.
Since the program has now been geographically broadened, and since the aggregate yield and
production levels of these regions no longer offer a good reflection of the payoffs to the input
subsidy, it is proposed to change the associated PDO indicators to measure the gains achieved by
targeted households rather than targeted regions. This will require that an independent impact
survey be used to measure the yield and production gains of households receiving the vouchers
in the up-coming cropping season. The baseline and target indicators have been derived from the
initial baseline impact assessment survey.


7
 The Financing Agreement specifically states: 50% or such percentage as may be determined from time to time
based on a review of the interim unaudited financial reports referred to in Section B.2 of this Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

                                                          7
36.    In addition, the core indicators “Project beneficiaries (number)? and “Project
beneficiaries of which female (percentage)? are additional indicators measuring project impact.

37.      Finally, it is proposed to replace two intermediate impact indicators. The indicators for
fertilizer use efficiency were broadly defined as measures of production per unit of fertilizer
applied in the targeted regions. These are coarse indicators which do not capture well the
efficiency of fertilizer use per se. Given the problems of timely delivery and reimbursement of
input subsidy vouchers over the past year, it is proposed to replace the indicators for the
efficiency of fertilizer on maize and rice with indicators measuring the timeliness of voucher
distribution and redemption.

38.     The definition of all other indicators remains unchanged. Their targets have been updated
to reflect the extra project year.

39.     Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF): Several significant risks are
highlighted in the ORAF (Annex 2). First, the request for AF has been received late and
associated planning for the printing of additional subsidy vouchers is late. This procurement
process will need to be pushed along to assure the vouchers arrive and get distributed by the start
of the cropping season.

40.      The fifty percent decline in the numbers of vouchers being distributed compared to the
last year represents a significant stakeholder risk. While farmers have been educated about the
fact that no one is to receive vouchers for more than three years, many do not believe this
restriction will be applied. The moderate decline in vouchers in 2011/12, combined with
government efforts to extend the program into new areas, led many farmers to express their
disappointment with the program that year. In 2012/13, the decline in program coverage will be
much more significant. The MAFC intends to initiate a strong education campaign to strengthen
awareness of the more limited program coverage this year.

41.     The third main risk is that the government fails to meet its planned commitment to
provide Tsh 75 billion to the program. During the past two years, delayed government payments
have led to long delays in the payment of agro-dealers providing subsidized seed and fertilizer to
farmers. This has led some agro-dealers to drop out of the program. This year, the risk is
heightened by the fact that government funding accounts for 63 percent of the total value of the
vouchers distributed. While most stakeholders understand the distinction between World Bank
and Government funding, such a delay creates a reputational risk for both institutions. This risk
will be mitigated by strictly monitoring the timing of the payments for redeemed vouchers.




                                                8
IV. Appraisal Summary

42.      Economic and Financial Analysis: The main economic gain derived from the subsidy
lies in the increased production, productivity and value of additional production of the country’s
main staple grain resulting from better access to fertilizer and modern varieties. These benefits
are crucial to assure the country maintains grain self-sufficiency, and does not have to import
grain.

43.     The financial and economic analysis for the original credit highlighted a Net Present
Value (NPV) over a ten year period of US$67 million, at a 12 percent discount rate. The Internal
Rate of Return (IRR) was estimated to be 37 percent. However, the costs of fertilizer are now
about 35 percent higher than the values used in the original model. The current farmgate price of
maize is similar to the price used in the original modeling. The price of rice is now
approximately 25 percent higher than the prices originally modeled. The yield gain achieved for
maize is similar to that modeled. For rice it is only about 40 percent of the originally modeled
improvement. The net result of these adjustments is a reduced profitability of maize. In effect,
high transport, distribution and assembly costs raise the relative costs of farm inputs, and lower
the value of surplus production. Farmers need to achieve higher efficiencies in fertilizer use in
order to strengthen the profitability of these inputs.

44.     The main economic benefit is found in the enhanced capacity of the country to achieve
self-sufficiency in grain production, and in maize production in particular. One major
contribution of the subsidy program is the improvement of national harvests to the point where
Tanzania no longer has to import grain, even in the midst of moderate drought. When rains are
favorable, the country can export limited quantities of grain.

45.     The value of this achievement is best measured in terms of Tanzania’s import parity price
of maize. For most of the last 20 years, Tanzania has operated at the margins of maize self-
sufficiency – generally importing grain, but occasionally exporting smaller quantities. The
primary source of white maize imports is South Africa. If there is widespread drought in the
region, these imports quickly become expensive, and more difficult to obtain on a timely basis.

46.    This risk has been recently heightened by the drought in the United States. On the
Chicago Board of Trade, March 2013 futures prices for yellow maize have increased more than
50 percent since mid-June 2012. This has motivated similar increases in maize prices in other
global markets. In South Africa, the March 3013 futures price for white maize has increased 30
percent since June. Average import parity prices for white maize arriving in Dar es Salaam from
Durban are around US$430 per ton. This translates to a farmgate or rural consumer price of a net
buyer of maize of over US$500 per ton. If the average price of maize grain is estimated at three
quarters of this level, the project’s IRR appears to be around 35 percent and the NPV is US$17
million.

47.     Overall, the analysis highlights the importance of pursuing greater efficiencies in input
delivery and production response. These are being sought through efforts to improve the
efficiency of input supply chains, as well as through improved extension advice on weed control
and water management. The analysis also highlights the fact that while it makes good economic

                                                9
sense to subsidize inputs in order to offset the need to import grain, these subsidies should not be
used to expand production for export. In general, the subsidy most benefits net deficit households
who would otherwise have to purchase a share of their grain supplies, or reduce their grain
intake. The later problem is particularly worrying given Tanzania’s high rates of stunting (42
percent).

48.     Technical Analysis: The Project has successfully distributed over a cumulative total of
over 15 million input vouchers to over 2.5 million households over the past three years. The
empowerment of Village Voucher Committees has contributed to the successful targeting of
vouchers to needy households. Farmers have generally received their inputs on a timely basis,
though occasional complaints have been heard about agro-dealers offering late deliveries
because of capital constraints. In view of this, the design for the 2012/13 season has been
marginally adjusted to allow agro-dealers to be identified as agents of one or more seed or
Fertilizer Company. These companies are expected to provide training and credit to the
distributors of their products. In order to reduce delays in payment, input subsidy payments will
now be directed to the seed and Fertilizer Company rather than the agro-dealer. The latter will
simply need to complete his or her payment of each input company with the cash generated by
each farmer’s top up payment. In addition, the project team is instituting a stricter tracking of the
relationship between outstanding voucher liabilities and payments completed.

49.      Concerns have been expressed about the proposal of the government to restrict the
redemption of basal fertilizer vouchers to Minjingu Mazao. IDA will not support this restriction.
We have agreed that Government funded vouchers which do not allow a choice of basal fertilizer
will be distributed in one set of Regions, and the IDA funded vouchers which offer farmers a
choice between Minjingu Mazao and DAP, will be distributed in an alternative set of Regions
specified in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). However, the project will support
Ministry efforts to monitor this redemption process, and implement additional demonstration
trials to assure farmers understand how best to apply this input. In addition, Government subsidy
funding (Category 1) will be allocated to the payment of vouchers in districts without a choice of
basal fertilizer, and subsidy funding from IDA (Category 1) will be used to redeem vouchers in
districts where a choice of basal fertilizer is offered.

50.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): During the last season of the project, investments
in monitoring and evaluation continue to be strong. A performance audit is being conducted
under the auspices of the National Audit Office (NAO). Third Party Monitoring is being
provided on a pilot basis by a civil society organization. Additional impact surveys are planned
to track input performance, to review the results of the agro-dealer training, and assess the
strength of the quality declared seed production program. The impact monitoring will
particularly examine the benefits accruing to women.

51.    Environmental and Social Safeguards: The project originally triggered OPs 4.01
(Environmental Assessment) 4.09 (Pest Management), and 7.50 (Projects on International
Waterways). The Environmental and Social Management framework (ESMF) and Integrated
Pest Management Plan (IPMP), which had originally been developed for the Agricultural Sector
Development Project (ASDP), were publicly disclosed including in the project areas and applied
by the AFSP; it remains unchanged for this AF. The most recent implementation support mission

                                                 10
conducted in June 2012 reviewed the integration of environmental safeguard issues under AFSP
with a specific focus on the implementation of the Integrated Nutrient Management Plan
(INMP). The Project’s overall safeguard compliance was rated satisfactory. The mission noted
that the project has prepared a simplified INMP guideline in Kiswahili language to be used at
farmers’ level to enhance safe handling and judicial application of inputs, particularly fertilizers
provided through the voucher scheme. The mission also noted that a formal diagnostic survey to
test the impact of fertilizer application on surface/ground water supplies in the five main regions
of project implementation reveals no nitrate contamination attributable to the project
implementation. To date, any civil works under the project have been small and localized
(refurbishing offices and a warehouse), guided by national and local laws and regulations. One
seed farm will include irrigation works; Terms of Reference for an Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment are under preparation. Given that this AF finances only the input subsidy and
no water-related investments, no new Notification of riparian countries under OP 7.50 is
required. An Integrated Safeguards Datasheet (ISDS) has been disclosed after receipt by
Infoshop on September 10, 2012.

52.      Procurement: Due to continuing delays in the completion of planned procurement
activities, the project’s procurement was rated moderately unsatisfactory in June 2012. Efforts
have been made to establish more detailed tracking schedules for each of the procurement
activities. A new procurement plan including the additional details was filed in August 2012.
Procurement progress is being reviewed on a bi-weekly basis.

53.    The AF involves no new procurement activities. World Bank’s "Guidelines: Procurement
of Goods, Works and Non Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 2011; Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in
January 2011; and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement.

54.     Financial Management Assessment: There are no changes being proposed to the
financial management (FM) arrangements in terms of accounting, financial reporting, auditing
and disbursement. The overall financial management rating remains satisfactory.

55.    The Financial Management review of the project conducted in June 2012 confirmed that
MAFC has qualified, experienced staff with adequate knowledge and experience of
implementing World Bank-financed projects. The overall project planning is in line with the
government’s Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and as a result, this is completed
well before the end of each financial year, i.e. June. The preparation of AFSP budget follows the
above process and is included in the government budget.

56.    The budgeting system and number of finance staff at national and district level have
continued to improve over time. Finance staff have been trained on World Bank’s financial
management and disbursement procedures. Positive development in financial management
include: (i) revision of Local Government Finance Act and Local Government Accounting
Manual to accommodate changes in public sector accounting and ensure sound financial

                                                11
reporting; (ii) continuous involvement of Internal Auditors in carrying out reviews of project
financial activities; (iii) continuous oversight by the Parliamentary committee on significant
matters raised in audit reports of Local Government Authorities (LGA); and (iv) improved
follow-up of audit queries and stringent actions to LGAs with qualified audit reports. In addition,
unaudited Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were received, reviewed by the bank and found
satisfactory. In addition, the project has addressed all issues raised in the last year audit report.

57.    Disbursement: The project uses a report based method of disbursement using quarterly
IFRs. The overall disbursement rate has increased from 58 percent last December 2011 to 95
percent according to client connection as July 1, 2012.

58.     Overall, the FM arrangement satisfies the Bank’s minimum requirement under OP/BP
10.02, and the existing system is adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information on the status of the project as required.




                                                 12
                                  Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring
                   United Republic of Tanzania: Accelerated Food Security Project
                                        Results Framework

                 Revisions to the Results Framework                                      Comments/
                                                                                    Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)                        Proposed
To contribute to higher food         No change
production and productivity in
targeted areas by improving
farmers’ access to critical
agricultural inputs

PDO indicators
Current (PAD)                        Proposed change*
Maize production in targeted         Additional maize production derived from   More accurately reflects results of
areas                                improved seed and fertilizer               subsidy program
Rice Production in targeted          Additional paddy production derived from   More accurately reflects results of
areas                                improved seed and fertilizer               subsidy program
                                     Maize yields achieved by farmers with      More accurately reflects results of
Maize yields in target areas
                                     subsidized seed and fertilizer             subsidy program
Rice yields in target areas          Paddy yields achieved by farmers with      More accurately reflects results of
                                     subsidized seed and fertilizer             subsidy program
Project beneficiaries (number)       updated
Of which female (beneficiaries)      updated
Intermediate Results indicators
Current (PAD)                        Proposed change*
Farmers using improved seed and      updated
fertilizer in target areas
Proportion of targeted farmers       new                                        Targets confirmation that at least 90
receiving seed and fertilizer                                                   percent of vouchers are correctly
subsidy vouchers                                                                redeemed
Proportion of reimbursement          new                                        Targets a speeding of agro-dealer
payments completed to agro-                                                     payments
dealers within 45 days of the
receipt of their signed
vouchers
Average level of N use efficiency                                               Drop because validity of variable
for maize:                                                                      is questionable
Average level of N use efficiency                                               Drop because validity of variable
for rice                                                                        is questionable
Trained agro-dealers who remain      Updated
active in agricultural input
distribution
Fertilizer sold by agro-dealers to   Updated
farmers
Seeds sold by agro-dealers to        Updated
farmers
Seed sector policy (P) and           Updated
implementation framework (IF)
developed

                                                          13
                Revisions to the Results Framework                                             Comments/
                                                                                          Rationale for Change
Production of pre-basic seeds of    Updated
maize OPVs in target research
stations
Production of pre-basic seeds of    Updated
rice OPVs in target research
stations
Production of basic seeds of        Updated
maize OPVs by private sector and
ASA
Production of basic seeds of        Updated
maize OPVs by private sector and
ASA
Percentage of recommendations in    Updated
the annual evaluations
implemented
Satisfactory M&E Report             Updated
produced
Area of maize and rice cultivated   Updated
with improved seed and fertilizer

 * Indicate if the indicator is Dropped, Continued, New, Revised, or if there is a change in the end of project target value




                                                            14
                                                                       Revised Results Framework
                                                      United Republic of Tanzania: Accelerated Food Security Project
Project Development Objective (PDO): to contribute to higher food production and productivity in targeted areas by improving farmers’ access to critical agricultural inputs (no change)

                                                Baseline              Target Values
                                                                                                                                                       Responsibility
PDO Level Results                     Unit of   Original              2010        2011        2012       2013                         Data Source/
                                                                                                                     Frequency                         for Data          Comments
Indicators                            Measure   Project                                                                               Methodology
                               Core

                                                                                                                                                       Collection
                                                2008/09
1.Additional crop production
achieved with subsidized
seed and fertilizer
                                                           Target     601.8       840.4       787.8      442.3                                                           Revised definition;
                                      Million                                                                                                                            target changes in line
 (i)           Maize                                                                                                                  Survey/
                                      Metric    0                                                                    Annual                            MAFC              with change in
                                                           Actual     n.d.        857.9                                               reports
                                      ton                                                                                                                                number of subsidy
                                                                                                                                                                         vouchers
                                                           Target     11.7        26.2        32.4       16.2                                                            Revised definition;
                                      Million                                                                                                                            target changes in line
 (ii)          Rice                                                                                                                   Survey/
                                      Metric    0                                                                    Annual                            MAFC              with change in
                                                           Actual     n.d.        12.3                                                reports
                                      ton                                                                                                                                number of subsidy
                                                                                                                                                                         vouchers
2. Average crop yield
achieved with subsidized
seed and fertilizer
                                                           Target     .78         .81         .84        .87                                                             Revised definition
        (i)       Maize               Ton per                                                                                         Survey/
                                                .33                                                                  Annual                            MAFC
                                      acre                 Actual     n.d.        .82                                                 reports
                                                                                                                                                                         Revised definition
                                                           Target     1.19        1.22        1.25       1.28
        (ii)      Rice                Ton per                                                                                         Survey/
                                                .74                                                                  Annual                            MAFC
                                      acre                                                                                            reports
                                                           Actual     n.d.        .99
                                      number               Target     1500        2000        1800       940                                           Local
3. Project beneficiaries              (000s)    731                                                                  Annually         Reports          Government
                                                           Actual     1410        1928        1780                                                     Authorities
                                      number
                                                           Target     435         600         576        310                                           Local
4. Of which female                    (000s)
                                                197                                                                  Annually         Reports          Government
(beneficiaries)
                                                           Actual     423         636         587                                                      Authorities




                                                                                              15
Intermediate Results and Indicators

                                                                      Target Values
                                                  Baseline                                                                                      Responsibility
Intermediate Results                    Unit of                       2010        2011       2012        2013                    Data Source/
                                                  Original                                                           Frequency                  for Data
Indicators                              Measure                                                                                  Methodology

                                 Core
                                                  Project                                                                                       Collection

7.Farmers using improved                %         24         Target   54          70         61          35          annual      Reports        MAFC
seed and fertilizer in target
areas                                                        Actual   51          67         60

8. Farmers receiving seed               Percent   0          Target                                      90          annual      Report         MAFC             New indicator to track
and fertilizer subsidy                                                                                                                                           proportion of vouchers
vouchers                                                     Actual                                                                                              successfully
                                                                                                                                                                 disseminated
9. Proportion of                        Percent   0          Target                                      90          annual      Report         MAFC             New indicator to track
reimbursement payments                                                                                                                                           proportion of payments
completed to seed and                                                                                                                                            made on a timely basis
                                                             Actual
fertilizer suppliers within 45
days of the delivery of their
redeemed vouchers
10. Trained agro-dealers who            No        500        Target   1250        2000       2500                    annual      Report         MAFC
remain active in agricultural
input distribution                                           Actual   2134        2335       2010
11. Fertilizer sold by agro-            Metric    111        Target   175         230        263         131.5       annual      Report         MAFC
dealers to farmers                      tons
                                        (000)                Actual   176         193        178

12. Seeds sold by agro-                 Metric    6.5        Target   15          20         22          9.5         annual      Report         MAFC
dealers to farmers                      tons
                                        (000)                Actual   15          20         18

                                                             Target   P           P          IF imple-   P and IF                                                Delayed due to delayed
13. Seed sector policy (P)                                            developed   endorsed   mented      developed                                               procurement of
and implementation                      y/n       no                                                                 annual      Report         MAFC
                                                             Actual                                                                                              consultants; now
framework (IF) developed                                              no          No         No
                                                                                                                                                                 underway
14. Production of pre-basic                                  Target
                                                                      0.8         0.9        1.0         2.0
seeds of maize OPVs in                  Metric
target research stations                          0.7                                                                annual      Report         MAFC
                                        tons                 Actual
                                                                      1.0         1.4        1.8
14. Production of pre-basic             Metric               Target
                                                  1.2                 1.4         1.6        1.8         0.6         annual      Report         MAFC             Rising and declining
seeds of rice OPVs in target            tons


                                                                                              16
Intermediate Results and Indicators

                                                                   Target Values
                                               Baseline                                                                      Responsibility
Intermediate Results                 Unit of                       2010      2011   2012   2013               Data Source/
                                               Original                                           Frequency                  for Data
Indicators                           Measure                                                                  Methodology

                              Core
                                               Project                                                                       Collection

research stations                                         Actual
                                                                   3.5       0.5    0.4
15. Production of basic                                   Target
                                                                   53        65     80     230
seeds of maize OPVs by               Metric
private sector and ASA                         41                                                 annual      Report         MAFC
                                     tons                 Actual
                                                                   106       230    228
15. Production of basic                                   Target
                                                                   60        80     100    110
seeds of maize OPVs by               Metric
private sector and ASA                         46                                                 annual      Report         MAFC
                                     tons                 Actual
                                                                   56        99     99
16. Percentage of                                         Target   75        85     95     90
recommendations in the
                                     %         -                                                  annual      Aide memoire   MAFC/IDA
annual evaluations                                        Actual   63        38     81
implemented
17. Satisfactory M&E Report                               Target   yes       yes    yes    yes
                                     y/n       -                                                  annual      Report         MAFC
produced                                                  Actual   no        yes
18. Area of maize and rice
                                                          Target   608       810    729    343
cultivated with improved
seed and fertilizer (ha)             000 ha    300                                                Annual      Report         MAFC
                                                          Actual   571       780    720




                                                                                     17
                                        Annex 2: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)
                                         United Republic of Tanzania: Accelerated Food Security Project

                                                                                                             Rating:
1. Project Stakeholder Risks
                                                                                                            Moderate
Description : The National Agricultural Input Voucher Scheme        Risk Management : The plans for the input voucher programme are openly discussed with
supported through the AFSP has high political visibility because    Parliament, regional and district stakeholders. An explicit communication strategy will assure
it provides subsidies to large numbers of farmers. This creates     these discussions continue with input suppliers, district and farm communities.
political support for the programme, but also debates about the
extent of coverage and efficiency of the use of public resource.    -      Resp: Government| Stage: Implementation| Due Date : on-going| Status: Satisfactory
Input wholesalers and retailers have become dependent on the
level and efficiency of this intervention in national seed and
fertilizer markets. Fewer subsidy vouchers will be distributed in
2012/13 leading to disappointment among farm communities            Risk Management: Formal and informal discussions are regularly organized by the Ministry of
who see the voucher as an entitlement.                              Agriculture with representatives of the national seed and fertilizer industry.

                                                                    -      Resp: Government | Stage: Implementation | Due Date: on-going | Status: NYD
2. Implementing Agency Risks (including fiduciary)
    2.1 Capacity                                                                                              Rating:
                                                                                                              Moderate
Description: Weak procurement systems have delayed key project          Risk Management: Procurement schedules will be more tightly tracked and assessed on a
activities; Project management systems need to improve the              monthly basis. Similarly, more explicit systems are being established for tracking budget and
tracking of budget flows and voucher management. M&E capacity           voucher flows. This includes the introduction of third party monitoring. Ministry staff will be
needs strengthening to assure understanding of project impacts.         more closely involved with the evaluation of independently collected M&E data.

                                                                        Resp: Implementing agency| Stage: Implementation | Due Date : on-going | Status: NYD

    2.2 Governance                                                                                    Rating:
                                                                                                      Substantial
Description: Periodic reports of voucher misallocation and          Risk Management :Funding support has been provided for a performance audit by the National
misuse have raised concerns about weak monitoring and control       Audit Office;
systems.
                                                                    Resp: Implementing agency| Stage: Implementation| Due Date: On-going| Status: NYD
3. Project Risks
    3.1 Design                                                                                                  Rating:
                                                                                                                Moderate
Description: There is no change in the programme design,            Risk Management: Additional resource is committed to communication strategies encompassing
however, fewer subsidy vouchers will be distributed in 2012/13      input suppliers, regional and district officials and village communities.


                                                                               18
leading to disappointment among farm communities who see the
voucher as an entitlement.                                           Resp: Implementing agency| Stage: Implementation| Due Date: 12/31/2012 | Status: NYD
  3.2 Social & Environmental                                                                                Rating:
                                                                                                            Moderate
Description: There is a continuing potential for fertilizer runoff   An ESMF and IPMP were prepared for the original project. An INMP has also been prepared
leading to groundwater contamination.                                during project implementation. ToRs for an ESIA are under preparation for a future irrigation
                                                                     structure associated with a seed farm.
There is a continuing potential for elite capture of the subsidy
vouchers themselves.                                                 Risk Management : Recent measures of water contamination have been found no significant
                                                                     contamination. Another round of testing will be implemented.

                                                                     Resp: Implementing agency| Stage: Implementation| Due Date: on-going| Status: satisfactory
                                                                     progress

                                                                     Risk Management: The baseline impact assessment revealed limited evidence of elite capture.
                                                                     However, since fewer vouchers will be distributed in 2012/13, efforts to target relatively lower
                                                                     income households (who can afford the top-up) will be implemented.

                                                                     Resp: Implementing agency| Stage: Implementation| Due Date: On-going| Status: Satisfactory
                                                                     progress
    3.3 Program & Donor                                                                                   Rating: Low
Description: This project is not directly dependent on any other     Risk Management: The project will make a larger investment in input demonstration trials co-
projects or donors. Indirectly, a possible decline in funding        implemented by input suppliers and extension staff.
support for extension programmes in the last year of the
Agricultural Sector Development Programme could reduce the
provision of advice to farmers about best agronomic practice.        Resp: Implementing agency| Stage: Implementation| Due Date: 2012/13 season | Status: NYD
    3.4 Delivery Monitoring & Sustainability                                                             Rating:
                                                                                                         Moderate
Description: Procurement delays continue to threaten the             Risk Management: Procurement schedules are being revised and tracked more closely.
completion of project activities. In particular, delays in the
procurement of vouchers could lead to delayed distribution and       Resp: Implementing agency| Stage: Implementation| Due Date: On-going| Status: NYD
undermine the redemption.

The sustainability of adoption of improved seed and fertilizer is    Risk Management: The project includes a major new investment in coordinated demonstration
threatened by multiple factors including rising input prices, and    trials linking agro-dealers, extension agents and rural communities. The purpose of the trials is to
the possible withdrawal of agro-dealers from villages when the       strengthen relations between agro-dealers and local extension staff and improve agro-dealer the
programme ends.                                                      understanding of the demand for improved inputs. This will encourage input suppliers to continue
                                                                     to invest in promoting their products in the village market. In addition, input suppliers will be
                                                                     closely involved in discussions of the design of future exit strategies conducive to sustainable
                                                                     input use.

                                                                              19
                                                                   Resp: Implementing agency| Stage: Implementation| Due Date: On-going| Status: NYD

3.   Overall Risk
Implementation Risk Rating: Moderate
Comments: This credit provides additional IDA funding for the originally planned continuation of an input subsidy with no changes in procedures established and
successfully implemented during the last 4 years. The main implementation risk is the need for timely agreement on the availability of these funds in order to
determine how many farmers will receive input vouchers.




                                                                            20
                 Annex 3: Project Cost Table by Component and Sub-Component
                    United Republic of Tanzania: Accelerated Food Security Project

Project            Original IDA         Expenditure        Revised IDA    Variance        Comment
Component/Activity Budget               to June 30,        Budget (US$)   from original
                   (US$)                2012 (US$)         (incl, AF)     budget (US$)
Component 1. Improving Access to Agricultural Inputs
1.1 Scaling up                                                                            AF
                          139,100,000   139,245,356a/       164,100,000     25,000,000
NAIVS
1.2 Improving                                                                             Costs originally
                            5,200,000       2,169,871         2,700,000     (2,500,000) overestimated
farmers' awareness
Component 2. Strengthening the Input Supply Chain
2.1 Strengthening                                                                         Costs originally
agro dealers                6,000,000       1,555,829         3,100,000     (2,900,000)   overestimated
network
2.2 Strengthening                                                                         Costs originally
national seed               6,200,000       1,955,783         5,400,000       (800,000)   overestimated
systems
Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring and Impact Evaluation
3.1 Project                                                                               Added costs of
Management                                                                                design and pilot
                            2,000,000         780,101         7,100,000      5,100,000    testing of
                                                                                          electronic voucher
3..2 Project                                                                              Added costs of
Monitoring and              1,500,000         994,473         2,600,000      1,100,000    supplementary
Evaluation                                                                                impact studies

Total                     160,000,000     144,941,203       185,000,000     25,000,000
a/
     Includes disbursement for subsidy voucher payments completed on June 20, 2012




                                                      21
                                                     Annex 4: Country at a Glance



Tanzania at a glance                                                                                                                                               2/3/12

                                                                                    Sub-
Key Development Indicators                                                       Saharan           Low
                                                                     Tanzania      Africa      income            Age distribution, 2009
(2010)
                                                                                                                                       Male                        Female

Population, mid-year (millions)                                          44.8        840          846           75-79
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                           947      24,242        17,838          60-64
Population growth (%)                                                     3.0         2.5          2.2
Urban population (% of total population)                                  26          37           29           45-49

                                                                                                                30-34
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                         22.9          944         431
                                                                                                                15-19
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                        510         1,125       509
GNI per capita (PPP, international $)                                  1,360          2,051      1,220               0-4

                                                                                                                           10                5          0           5         10
GDP growth (%)                                                            7.0           1.7        4.6                                  percent of total population
GDP per capita growth (%)                                                 3.9          -0.7        2.4

(most recent estimate, 2004–2010)

Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, %)                           68            51          ..
                                                                                                                Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Poverty headcount ratio at $2.00 a day (PPP, %)                           88            73          ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                          55            53         57
                                                                                                                200
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                  51            81         76
                                                                                                                180
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                20            25         28           160
                                                                                                                140
Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)                              79            71         69          120
                                                                                                                100
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15 and older)                            67            54         55
                                                                                                                 80
Gross primary enrollment, male (% of age group)                           106           105        107           60
Gross primary enrollment, female (% of age group)                         107            95        100           40
                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                                                  0
Access to an improved water source (% of population)                      55            60         64
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                34            31         35                                 1990       1995       2000     2009


                                                                                                                            Tanzania                Sub-Saharan Africa


                                                                                                         a
Net Aid Flows                                            1980           1990       2000         2010

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                     676         1,163        1,063      2,934          Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2008):
  United States                                               28          39             25       284           10
  United Kingdom                                              73          27            153       217            8
  European Union Institutions                                 25          42             32       138            6
                                                                                                                 4
Aid (% of GNI)                                                 ..        28.6          10.5       13.7           2
Aid per capita (US$)                                          36          46            31         67            0
                                                                                                                -2
Long-Term Economic Trends                                                                                       -4

                                                                                                                                         95                         05
Consumer prices (annual % change)                            30.2        35.8         -82.2        7.2
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)                         ..       22.4           7.6        6.9                                GDP                   GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)                 8.2        195.1        800.4    1,388.2
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                            138          101           100        117
                                                                                                                1980–90 1990–2000       2000–10
                                                                                                                     (average annual growth %)
Population, mid-year (millions)                              18.7        25.5          34.0      44.8                           3.1                2.9                  2.8
GDP (US$ millions)                                             ..       4,259         10,186   23,263                            ..                3.0                  7.1
                                                                         (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                     ..       46.0          33.5       28.1                           ..                3.2                  4.3
Industry                                                        ..       17.7          19.2       25.5                           ..                3.1                  9.3
  Manufacturing                                                 ..        9.3           9.4        9.6                           ..                2.8                  8.7
Services                                                        ..       36.4          47.3       46.5                           ..                2.6                  7.8

Household final consumption expenditure                         ..       80.9          78.3       64.7                           ..                5.3                0.4
General gov't final consumption expenditure                     ..       17.8           11.7      18.2                           ..               -8.8               19.6
Gross capital formation                                         ..       26.1          16.8       28.9                           ..                -1.1              12.3

Exports of goods and services                                   ..       12.6          13.4       26.1                           ..                11.7              11.0
Imports of goods and services                                   ..       37.5          20.1       37.8                           ..                4.7               14.8
Gross savings                                                   ..        7.7          13.2       20.2


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2010 data are preliminary. Group data are for 2009. .. indicates data are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2009.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                 22
                                                                                                                                                                      Tanzania

Balance of Payments and Trade                             2000         2010
                                                                                           Governance indicators, 2000 and 2009
(US$ millions)
Total merchandise exports (fob)                                 710     3,309
Total merchandise imports (cif)                               1,495     8,482               Voice and accountability
Net trade in goods and services                               -757     -2,598
                                                                                                    Political stability

Current account balance                                       -437     -1,893
                                                                                                  Regulatory quality
 as a % of GDP                                                 -4.3       -8.1
                                                                                                         Rule of law
Workers' remittances and
 compensation of employees (receipts)                             8      23                     Control of corruption

Reserves, including gold                                       -197     -570                                              0        25           50           75          100

                                                                                                    2009                      Country's percentile rank (0-100)
Central Government Finance                                                                                                      higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                    2000

(% of GDP)
                                                                                          Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank
Current revenue (including grants)                              9.5      14.9
  Tax revenue                                                   8.5      13.7
Current expenditure                                             9.9      17.7
                                                                                        Technology and Infrastructure                                    2000           2009
Overall surplus/deficit                                        -4.8     -10.9
                                                                                        Paved roads (% of total)                                            8.6           7.4
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                           Fixed line and mobile phone
  Individual                                                    30       30               subscribers (per 100 people)                                            1            40
  Corporate                                                     30       30             High technology exports
                                                                                          (% of manufactured exports)                                         1.2          4.4
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                        Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                          7,142    8,664            Agricultural land (% of land area)                                   38           39
Total debt service                                              167      199            Forest area (% of land area)                                        42.1         39.8
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                      2,977    2,517            Terrestrial protected areas (% of land area)                          ..                ..

Total debt (% of GDP)                                          70.1     37.2            Freshwater resources per capita (cu. meters)                    2,336           2,035
Total debt service (% of exports)                              12.3      3.4            Freshwater withdrawal (billion cubic meters)                       5.2                  ..

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                        463       424            CO2 emissions per capita (mt)                                       0.08         0.15
Portfolio equity (net inflows)                                   0        0
                                                                                        GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                         (2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                2.1         2.6
  Composition of total external debt, 2009
                                                                                        Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)                        392          446
                     Short-term,       IBRD, 0
                       1,341

                                                 IDA, 2,598
                                                                                        World Bank Group portfolio                                       2000           2009

                                                                                        (US$ millions)
          Private, 1,134
                                                                                        IBRD
                                                                                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                     11           0
                                             IMF, 329                                    Disbursements                                                            0             0
                    Bilateral, 948        Other multi-
                                                                                         Principal repayments                                                     4             –
                                          lateral, 974                                   Interest payments                                                         1             0

  US$ millions                                                                          IDA
                                                                                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             2,593          2,598
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                      142            608
Private Sector Development                                2000         2010              Total debt service                                                  23             16

Time required to start a business (days)                          –      29             IFC (fiscal year)
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                    –     30.9             Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                            43               50
Time required to register property (days)                         –      73                of which IFC own account                                           43               50
                                                                                         Disbursements for IFC own account                                     8               16
Ranked as a major constraint to business                  2000         2010              Portfolio sales, prepayments and
 (% of managers surveyed who agreed)                                                       repayments for IFC own account                                         4             5
   Electricity                                                72.9            ..
   Access to/cost of financing                                 9.3            ..        MIGA
                                                                                         Gross exposure                                                      175                0
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)                          2.3       5.4            New guarantees                                                      172                0
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)                                   ..        ..


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2010 data are preliminary.                                                                           2/3/12
.. indicates data are not available. – indicates observation is not applicable.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                   23
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                  Tanzania


With selected targets to achieve b etween 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)                                                                               Tanzania


Goal 1: halve the rates for extreme poverty and malnutrition                                              1990             1995               2000              2009
 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, % of population)                                            72.6                  ..              88.5             67.9
 Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line (% of population)                                       38.6                  ..             35.7              33.6
 Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)                                                 7.4                 ..               7.3                    ..
 Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                        25.1            26.9                25.3              20.0


Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
 Primary school enrollment (net, %)                                                                        51                   ..                   53            95
 Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                         47                58                     55             102
 Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                                       5                5                      6             27
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                               ..                  ..                  78             78


Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)                                             97                  ..                   99               ..
 Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)                                 ..             ..                   29               ..
 Proportion of seats held by women in national parliament (%)                                                   ..           18                      16             30


Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
 Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                                                                         157              154                    143            81
 Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                               96               94                     89            51
 Measles immunization (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)                                             80               78                     78            90


Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)                                         ..                ..                       ..      454
 Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                                      53                47                     44                  ..
 Contraceptive prevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                          10                18                     25             26


Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and other major diseases
 Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 15-49)                                                             4.8              7.8                     7.3           5.6
 Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)                                                             178              271                    339          297
 Tuberculosis case detection rate (%, all forms)                                                             39               59                     67            77


Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                                       49               50                      53           55
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                                                 35               35                      34             34
 Forest area (% of land area)                                                                              46.8             44.5                    42.1         39.8
 Terrestrial protected areas (% of land area)                                                                 ..               ..                     ..              ..
 CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                                     0.1              0.1                     0.1          0.1
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                  2.2              2.1                     2.1          2.6


Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
 Telephone mainlines (per 100 people)                                                                       0.3              0.3                    0.5            0.4
 Mobile phone subscribers (per 100 people)                                                                  0.0              0.0                    0.3           39.9
 Internet users (per 100 people)                                                                            0.0             0.0                     0.1             1.5
 Personal computers (per 100 people)                                                                          ..            0.2                     0.3           0.9



   Education indicators (%)                                Measles immunization (% of 1-year                         ICT indicators (per 100 people)
                                                           olds)
  125                                                      100                                                       50

  100                                                                                                                40
                                                           75
   75
                                                                                                                     30
   50                                                      50
                                                                                                                     20
   25
                                                           25
    0                                                                                                                10

          2000                  2005              2009      0                                                         0

                                                                     1990     1995      2000     2009                       2000                     2005          2009
           Primary net enrollment ratio
                                                                                                                                   Fixed + mobile subscribers
           Ratio of girls to boys in primary & secondary           Tanzania          Sub-Saharan Africa
           education (..)                                                                                                          Internet users




Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. .. indicates data are not available.                                                         2/3/12

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                               24
Annex 5: Map




     25
