 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14728

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Tanzania
             Project ID: P114291                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Tanzania -                    Project Costs (US$M):                     299.0                321.2
                         Accelerated Food
                         Security Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      160.0                184.0
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  06/09/2009
                                                               Closing Date:              06/30/2012          06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Crops (90%); Public administration- Agriculture; fishing and forestry (6%); Agro-industry;
                           marketing; and trade (4%)
          Theme(s):        Global food crisis response (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Keith Robert A. Oblitas    Victoria Alexeeva       Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

"To contribute to higher food production and productivity in targeted areas by improving farmers’ access to critical
agricultural inputs" (Financing Agreement dated July 22, 2009, page 5; Emergency Program Paper, page x.)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 1. Improving access to agricultural inputs (Estimated costs as at Appraisal: $283.4 million; Additional Financing
US$25 million; Actual costs $313.2 million): (a) providing paper vouchers to eligible smallholder farmers in targeted
areas for purchase of improved seed and fertilizers at subsidized prices from certified agro-input dealers who would in
turn redeem the vouchers at the local branches of the voucher scheme partner Bank; and (b) carrying out an
awareness campaign for the voucher program, including training of Village Voucher Committees which would facilitate
implementation. Under the scheme, the value of the voucher was pre-set at printing to cover 50 percent of the
estimated cost of the input, with the beneficiary responsible for “topping up” any reduction in actual price compared
with the estimated price.

2. Strengthening the input supply chain (Estimated costs as at Appraisal: $12.2 million; Actual costs $5.6 million): (a)
expanding and training a network of agro-input dealers; and (b) strengthening the national seed systems by: (i)
updating the policy and regulatory framework to stimulate a private sector seed industry; (ii) stimulating
business-oriented, farmer-based seed production and marketing units across the country; (iii) providing irrigation and
other equipment to three agricultural research institutes for producing pre-basic seed, and to the Agriculture Seed
Industry for producing basic seed; and (iv) providing equipment to the Tanzania Official Seed Certification Institute to
improve its certification capability.
3. Project management and monitoring and impact evaluation (Estimated costs as at Appraisal: $3.5 million; Actual
costs $2.4 million): (a) Capacity building for the National Voucher Steering Committee and the Agricultural Inputs
Section of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives (MAFC) responsible for project management;
and (b) funding for monitoring and impact assessment.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
      The project was conceived and appraised as an emergency operation to mitigate the effects of the food price
crisis which had jolted food and fertilizer prices upwards and raised concerns about food imports in the future.
Financing was under OP/BP 8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies. A concept note was prepared in
                                                                                       th
December 2008, Appraisal was in April, 2009, and Board approval was on June 9 2009, six weeks after appraisal.
     The project closing date was extended three times resulting in an overall project implementation period (Board to
Closure) of five years (from Board Approval on June 9 2009 to the final closure date of June 30, 2014). The first
extension, of one year, was to enable completion of: redemption of outstanding subsidy vouchers; incomplete
contracts; a performance audit; and; preparation of a pilot electronic voucher system. The second extension (of six
months) was to bring timing of the initial credit in line with a provision of Additional Financing (refer below). The third
extension (also six months) was to complete irrigation infrastructure at two seed farms.
      During the first two years of the project, IDA financed 50 percent of the costs of the subsidies, with Government
financing the remaining 50 percent. The Government contributed US$137.2 million, as compared to the appraised
US$139 million. In response to long delays in the release of Government funds due to national budget constraints,
IDA’s share was raised to 83 percent. The extra funding was covered by internal reallocations of the Credit and $25
million of Additional Financing in October 2012.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
 The project was one of a package of three complementary operations that formed IDA's response to the Government
of Tanzania's request for urgent support for its Accelerated Food Security Program supported under the Bank's Global
Food Crisis Response Program. The project’s objectives were sharply focused on Tanzania’s urgent needs at the time
of appraisal. The principal part of the 2007/2008 Global Food Crisis was a soaring of international prices for major
food grains, which had also been accompanied by a spike in fertilizer prices. There were concerns in Tanzania not
only with the welfare impact of higher prices, but also with the country’s basic food security. Use of improved seed and
fertilizer were known to increase yields substantially, and could achieve higher productivity the first season applied.
They were also consistent with the current Bank Country Assistance Strategy (2012-2015) which calls for increased
agricultural productivity and commercialization. Improved seed and fertilizer would be a necessary element of such a
productivity growth strategy. Tanzania’s National Strategy for Growth and Poverty Reduction (2010) has food security
as a principal aim.
    A possible gap is that the project did not aim to also ramp up the intensity (reducing the number of farmers per
extension worker; more training and demonstrations) of agricultural extension – based on international experience,
improved agricultural practices could have further contributed to higher productivity, beyond the impact of the
agricultural inputs alone. However, this possibility aside, the Relevance of the project’s objectives was Substantial.

 b. Relevance of Design:
   The project’s design was focused on achieving the final objective of increasing yields and production of Tanzania’s
main cereals: maize and rice. The logical framework clearly articulates the means to that end through a subsidy
system for seed and fertilizer; strengthening the seed production system, and facilitating actions to stimulate
expansion of the private sector input supply chain for both seed and fertilizer. Project components reflect the design
framework. There was an inbuilt exit strategy in that, for each beneficiary the voucher would be phased out over three
years. A positive feature was the use of existing institutions for project implementation (adapted for the project) - the
relevant Government department in MAFC for management, the private sector for distribution, and local community
organizations brought in to monitor the program. However, there were several flaws. First, potential bottlenecks to
speedy implementation might have been identified and some form of contracting out or reinforcement with consultants
could have been devised. Notably, low capacity in procurement proved a critical constraint during project
implementation. Second, the project should have been limited to its emergency response intention, but the project
included a small amount of irrigation and other infrastructure which would take time to be established (and in the event
was not fully complete at project closure). Relevance of Design was Modest.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To contribute to higher food production and productivity in targeted areas by improving farmers’ access to critical
agricultural inputs . Substantial*.
* A split rating is not used for assessment of the project's efficacy as the modifications to the key outcome indicators were minor and
did not infer material difference, i.e., included "additional" under the original outcome indicators specifying the project's scope.

Outputs:

Improvements in access to agricultural inputs can be inferred from the following achievements, most of which were
close to appraisal targets: (i) About 2,000 agro-dealers were trained (80 percent of target), of which about 80 percent
remained active in input supply at project closure. (ii) About 7 million vouchers were distributed (97 percent of the
target of 7.2 million). (iii) 70,500 tons of seed and 791,000 tons of fertilizer were sold to farmers – 93 percent and 85
percent respectively of project targets; and (iv) production of maize and rice basic seed was 228,000 and 99,000 tons
respectively, as targeted for maize and 90 percent of target for rice. About 15 percent of beneficiaries were women;
below the 29 percent targeted at appraisal.

Outcomes

     2.3 million tons of “additional” production of maize (96 percent of appraisal targets) was produced.
     Additional production of rice was 83 million tons (95 percent of target).
     Maize yields increased from 0.33 tons per acre to 0.93 tons, slightly above the targeted 0.90 tons per acre.
     Paddy yields increased from 0.74 tons per acre to 1.11 tons, 85 percent of the targeted yield, but still an increase
      of 50 percent on base line yields.


5. Efficiency:

As concerns economic benefits, the project’s achievements in increasing crop yields and production, and the nature of
the benefit and cost flows of an input supply project (with hardly any time lag between input costs and crop production
benefits) provided a good base for economic viability. The project’s Economic Rate of Return calculated in the ICR
was 53 percent (at appraisal the ERR was estimated to be 37 percent). No explanation is provided in the ICR on
reasons for the difference).

Operational efficiency was weak. The implementation period was extended by two years from the original three years
mainly due to: ( i) highly inefficient procurement procedures and processes (resulting in late installation of equipment,
and even incomplete installation of the intended center pivot irrigation system for the Agriculture Seed Agency); and
(ii) late funding by Government of the National Microfinance Bank (NMB), resulting in delayed payments to
agro-dealers by the bank.

In summary, although economic efficiency was high, there were critical shortcomings with procurement processes and
funding. The project’s Efficiency was Modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                    Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                          Yes                                       37%                                     100%

      ICR estimate                       Yes                                       53%                                     100%
                                             * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
      The project responded to the spike in food and fertilizer prices in 2007/2008, which threatened the welfare of the
population and Tanzania’s food security, and also added pressure to Government’s fiscal balance. A short duration
operation to jolt agricultural productivity fitted the needs of the time, and enhanced access to agricultural inputs was a
way of achieving this. The project’s objectives were substantially relevant. The project’s design laid out in general a
pragmatic path to the objectives, although a way to bolster procurement capacity was not devised, and the project
included infrastructure that would not fit the time-frame of an emergency operation. Thus, relevance of Design was
modest. The project largely achieved its objectives: (i) maize and rice yields and production were close to targets; and
(ii) access to agricultural inputs greatly increased through the voucher program and expansion of the input dealer
network. Thus, Efficacy was substantial. Efficiency was modest, because, while the project had a good economic rate
of return, operational efficiency was poor; in particular, of procurement which plagued the project throughout
implementation, and the delays in provision of counterpart funding, both of which contributed to a two year extension
of an originally planned three year project. Thus, the project clearly made an impact, but the weak features of design
and operational efficiency, call for a Moderately Satisfactory Outcome overall.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
     The project’s most durable legacy is likely to be the network of agro-input retailers, most of whom remained in
business at project closure, and the seed industry which was strengthened under the project to be a functional
network of seed research, breeding and multiplication institutions. There will be a continuous demand for seed,
fertilizer and other inputs, hence an inherent need for seed production and input retailing. The seed sector may be
more vulnerable than fertilizer distribution as it relies on several interdependent institutional layers. More broadly, the
approach set up under the project to wean farmers from subsidy dependence was not consistently enforced.
Government is now favoring a credit subsidy program. And the project’s experience demonstrates its difficulty
providing timely funding. Risk to Development Outcome is rated Significant.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
      As an emergency operation, the project was prepared rapidly with only four months between concept review
and appraisal and six weeks between Appraisal and Board Approval. The project team did well in preparing the
project within this short time-frame. The appraisal report is strategic and analytical in its country and sector
background, and adequately covers institutional and implementation arrangements. Procurement processes (but
not arrangements – refer below) described in Annex A.3 of the PAD appear unexceptional in content and detail.
Stand-out features of project preparation were decided on a limited and sharply focused objective, appropriate for
an emergency operation; and use of existing institutions and sub-sectors (for instance, retailers, seed stations, a
Bank, the Government department responsible) in a generally well thought through implementation and processes
structure. By contrast, it was not practical (and caused many difficulties to the extent that some infrastructure was
never finished) to include infrastructure in an emergency operation where speed, simplicity and impact are of the
essence. There is also the question as to whether intensified agricultural extension would have added to the
project’s impact. And finally, the project’s procurement difficulties might have been less if special arrangements
(for instance, outsourcing most activities to a consulting firm) had been built in to strengthen procurement
capacity. But in other respects the project was well prepared in a short time frame, meriting an overall Moderately
Satisfactory rating for Quality at Entry.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
      The supervision team worked closely with Government, and included financial management and procurement
staff based in-country. From the ICR, general supervision activities (such as regular missions, procurement,
reporting to Bank management, preparing documents related to extension requests) appear to have been a
strength. Bank specialists also provided technical help and some knowledge transfer to Government. The team
could have done more in resolving the procurement problems. One might have been to advocate building, with
consultancy help, the procurement capacity of MAFC staff, and to some extent this was done. But given the
difficulties with procurement, a more radical solution – such as outsourcing most activities to a consulting firm as
mentioned above and in the ICR - might have been more effective. The Bank’s Supervision performance was
Moderately Satisfactory.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     Government was committed to the project, working closely with the Bank both during project preparation and
implementation. However, counterpart funding was not provided on a regular basis, holding up key project
activities such as voucher printing and redemption. The delays with financing were largely out of the purview of
MAFC, and at least in part were influenced by Tanzania’s severe budget constraints. But financing is part of
Government’s role, wherever the origin and flow of funds resides. Also, actions to resolve the procurement issues,
which were partly due to possibly unnecessary multiple clearances by senior government officials, could have
been streamlined, but actions were not taken. Government performance was Moderately Unsatisfactory.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
      MAFC worked closely with the Bank team, and facilitated coordination between key stakeholders. MAFC was
able to manage the core features of the project- the voucher program, revamping of the seed industry, and
facilitating growth in private sector input retailing – which, especially given the financing inconsistencies that it had
to contend with, was substantially achieved, leading to increases in cereal yields and production close to appraisal
targets. However, performance was weak in several areas, notably procurement and financial management (see
section 11b), but also as regards incomplete training of agro-dealers, delays with the infrastructure program,
limited M&E achievements, and incomplete impact assessments. In view of the achievements, yet a number of
shortcomings, the Performance of the Implementing Agency was Moderately Unsatisfactory.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
     The monitorable indicators were adequate both to assess improvements in farmers’ access to seed and fertilizer,
and to assess progress in productivity and production, thus covering the project’s objectives. Some targets though
were defined as annual rather than end- of- project. There was to be a baseline survey, a mid-term assessment, and
an impact assessment at project completion, but in the event, procurement for the end-of-project assessment was not
completed before project closure. The ICR suggests a way of handling a succession of surveys, especially in a short
duration project with an implementer with limited procurement capacity. This would have been to bundle all three
surveys under one contract. M&E was to be done by MAFC’s M&E Unit, operating and staffed within the existing
Government structure. An MIS system was also meant to be established. The PAD (page 69) refers to use of “control
areas” for determining with and without-project changes, but there is no evidence in the ICR that this was done.

 b. M&E Implementation:
    The outcome indicators were slightly modified during AF in 2012 as to include 'additional' and 'with subsidized
seed and fertilizer' to better reflect the project scope of activities. Implementation was weak. Both the baseline and
mid-term surveys were late, the mid-term survey being conducted a year and a half after the mid-term review. The
MIS was never established, and there were significant gaps in the range of data collected. Nevertheless, most of the
data relevant to the project’s monitorable indicators was collected.

 c. M&E Utilization:
    Despite the weaknesses of the M&E system, findings appear to have been a useful base for discussion. The
reports and other M&E data were discussed in detail in MAFCS, and data also informed an expenditure review of the
voucher scheme. The availability of most of the data to evaluate the monitorable indicators also suggests some utility.
But the ICR comments that the recommendations were not followed through and the sustainability of the M&E system
cannot be ascertained.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
 The project was classified as Environmental Category B and triggered three safeguard policies: Environmental
Assessment (OP4.01); Pest Management (OP4.09); and Projects on International Waterways (OP7.50). An
Environmental Management Plan was prepared for investments related to strengthening the national seed systems.
Also, an Integrated Pest Management Plan and an Integrated Nutrient Management Plan (for fertilizer) were prepared.
An environmental survey found no significant pesticide and fertilizer residues in both surface and ground water as
chemical input use was generally low. The ICR (page 8) reports that the overall safeguard compliance is considered
to be moderately satisfactory, due to the continued lack of knowledge and skills in safe handling of chemical inputs by
farmers.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
  Financial reports were generally on time, but there were several implementation problems: inadequate tracking of
budgets; late transfer of funds to the National Microfinance Bank; and inadequate follow-up on audit findings. There
were also two cases of misuse of funds, in the amounts of $20,954 of ineligible expenditures, and $19,000 charged on
goods that were not delivered. Both sums were reimbursed to the project. Procurement is reported in the ICR to have
followed the Bank’s (and Government’s) procurement policies. But delays could be extreme resulting in cancellation of
some activities. The two principle reasons were: lack of capacity to prepare procurement documentation and follow
through all steps to actual delivery; and administrative blocks such as infrequent meetings of the Ministerial Tender
Board.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
  The following main lessons have been adapted from the ICR:

(i)       An agricultural input supply program would likely get larger benefits if accompanied by intensified
agricultural extension . Crop yields increased appreciably, reaching appraisal targets. However, based on
international experience, with improved cultivation practices accompanying the use of inputs, yet larger yield gains
might have been possible.

(ii)     An emergency response project should focus on a rapidly implementable program of short term actions ,
avoiding longer-term investments. Inclusion in the project of irrigation and other investments turned the operation to
a hybrid between emergency response and investment, and lengthened the project implementation period.

(iii)     Institutional mainstreaming may still require targeted “shoring –up” support . Procurement capacity was a
particular weakness and might have been bolstered through out-sourcing most activities to a consulting firm, or
some other pragmatic solution.
14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

  The ICR provides a thoughtful and candid review of the project experience and associated issues. It has endeavored
to use facts as available to back up the discussion. For the larger issues, it has, appropriately, provided greater
discussion and background, and practical comments on the way forward. The write-up is well structured. Annexes 6
and 8 on, respectively, the Beneficiary Survey/Impact Assessment and the Borrower ICR provide informative
commentary on benefits, farmer views and sustainability and some of the material or data could usefully have been
used to strengthen the discussions of benefits, sustainability and capacity in the main text. A commentary on why the
ICR estimate of the project’s ERR was larger than the estimate at appraisal would have been useful. But overall, the
ICR is strong in most features, and Quality is Satisfactory.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
