Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
r
Report No. 7897
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1821-PH)
JUNE 30, 1989
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currenc, Unit         -  Peso *P)
US$:                  - P21.0 (comnletion)
US$1                     P7.4  (apn)raisal)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                        -  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)              -  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)               -  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                   -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)          m   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)                     -  10,000 square meters (sq m or
2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BLISS     -  Bagong Lipunan Improvement of Sites and Services
CIF       -  Capital Improvement Folio
COA       -  Commission on Audit
DBP       -  Development Bank of the Philippines
ESC       -  Environmental Sanitation Center
LOI       -  Letters of Instruction
MCB       -  Management Coordination Board
NHS       - Ministry of Human Settlements
MMINUTE - - Metro-Manila Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering Program
MMA       -  Metro Manila Area
MMBIDP    -  Metro-Manila Barangay Industries Development Program
MKC       - Metro Manila Commission
NMTA      - Metro Manila Transport Authority
MOB       - Ministry of Budget
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
MPH       - Ministry of Public Highways
MPW       - Ministry of Public Works
MWSS      - Metropolitan Water and Sewerage System
NACIDA    - National Cottage Industry Dev4Iopment Authority
NEDA      -  National Economic and Development Authority
NHA       -  National Housing Authority
NHMFC     -  National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
NMYC      -  National Manpower and Youth Council
PBSP      -  Philippine Business for Social Progress
PD        -  Presidential Decree
PROGRESS  -  Program for Removing Se,age from Streets
RAD       -  Research and Analysis Division
SIR       -  Slum Improvement and Resettlement Program
SSE       -  Small Scale Enterprise
TRC       -  Technology Resource Center
TUVD      -  Technology Utilization Ventures Division
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
UPISSI    - University of the Philippines Institute for Small Scale Industry
ZIP       -  Zonal Improvement Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washtngton. DC. 20433
U.S.A.
OMice d4 DOwectt(.ClhI
-,      Operatmm EvoakiatKi
June 30, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
STThJECT: Project Completion Report _n Philippines -
Third Urban Development Project (Loan 1821-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Philippines - Third Urban Developmrat Project (Loan
1821-PH)' prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1821-PH)
Table of Contents
Preface .................................................... i
Evaluation Summary ......................................... ii
I.     Part I
Project Identity ................................... 1
Background ......................................... 1
Project Objectives and Description ................. 1
Project Highlights ................................. 1
Lessons ............................................ 4
Remaining Issues ................................... 8
Attachment 1: Table of Key Indicies ................ 12
Attachment 2: Inflation ............................ 14
II.   Pa ft II  The Borrower's Project Completion Report ..... 15-74
III. Part III Summary of Statistical Data
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans .76
Table 2:  Project Timetable .76
Table 3:  Loan Disbursements .77
Table 4:      Project Implementation (Key Indices)  78
Table 5:      Project Costs and Financing .78
Table 6B:   Economic Benefits ...................... 78
Table 6D:   Studies ................................ 80
Table 7:    Compliance with Loan Covenants ......... 81
Table 8:    Use of Bank Resources .................. 82
ATTACHMENT - Comments from the Borrower .....              ............... 84
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHIL'PPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1821-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Urban
Development Project in Philippines, for wh!.ch Loan 1821-PH in the amount of
US$72 million was approved on March 23, 1980. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1987, three years behind schedule. During implementation,
US$1.0 million was cancelled in November 1985. The last disbursement was
made on July 11, 1988 and the undisbursed loan balance of US$3,895,100.12
was cancelled effective July 12, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division,
Country Department II of the Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Sulmmary,
Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). Borrower provided comments on
the PCR (Attacbment).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final super-
vision mission of the project in July 1988, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1821-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        The project  was the  third Bank  urban development operation in the
Philippines. It represented the continuation of Bank assistaAce to the urbaa
sector initiated in 1976 with the purpose of providing basic shelter
improvements to the urban poor, primarily through slum upgrading and sites and
services. The Bank loan of US$72 million to the Government of the Republic of
the Philippines was approved on March 23, 1980 and was closed on December 31,
1987, three years after the original closing date.
Obiectives
2.        The objective  of the  operation was  to continue  assistance to the
Philippine Government in developing affordable solutions to the problems of
poverty, shelter and environmental sanitation in the Manila Metropolitan Area
(Part II, para. 1.03).
Implementation Experience
3.        Project implementation  encountered  severe  economic  and political
turbulence resulting in three one year extensicas (Part I, para. 4). Total
project costs were estimated at appraisal to be US$120, and while the final
dollar equivalent was only marginally above this figure, project costs in
pesos rose from the P800 million expected at appraisal to P1,804.7 million at
closing. This increase was due to a combination of domestic inflation and the
significant devaluation of the peso relative to the dollar during the
implementation period. The near equivalence of dollar costs reflects the
programmatic nature of the operation, as the quantity of physical works was
expanded to maximize utilizatioui of the dollar value of the loan (Part I,
para. 5). Out of the original Bank loan, nevertheless, US$1.0 million was
cancelled in November 1985 and another US$3.9 million was cancelled at the
time of last disbursement in July 1988.
Results
4.        Despite implementation  delays,  project  physical  achievements for
slum upgrading and sites and services subprojects eventually reached targeted
levels and, in the case of several components, significantly exceeded them
(Part I, Attachment 1). The small business component was also largely
successful, while the level of up front subsidies implicit in the below cost
pricing of project-generated shelter solutions was significantly decreased
vis-a-vis the experience under the two previous projects (Part I, paras. 6-
11). On the negative side, however, serious problems with lot sales and



- iii -
mortgage and home improvement loan collections persisted (Part I, paras. 38-
40). Furthermore, the project proved to be too complex in design, having
eight  distinct  components  involving  five  different  agencies,  and overly
ambitious  in   its  technical   assistance  and  institutional  strengthening
objectives (Part I, paras. 12-19).
Sustainability
5.        While benefits deriving from  improved shelter  and access  to urban
services on the part of many low-income families as a result of the project
are likely to be sustatned, the poor cost recovery performance under this and
the two previous uroan projects calls into question the ability of the
National Housing Authority to replicate sites and services and, especially,
squatter upgrading efforts on a broad scale.
Findings and Lessons
6.        This project, as one of a series of very ambitious urban shelter and
service improvement operations financed by the Bank in the Philippines over
the past decade and a half was prepared at a time when the institutionally
demanding, multi-component approach to urban development was still in vogue
and before the Bank had become fully aware of the institutional and financial
-- especially cost recovery -- difficulties experienced by Urban I and II. As
a result many of the problems observed in the two earlier operations also
occurred in the present project. Urban III, nevertheless, made several notable
contributions, including the consolidation of the relatively cost effective
and socially less lisruptive slum upgrading/sites and services approach to the
provision of housing and basic services for the urban poor in metropolitan
Manila and, in the process, benefitted large numbers of low-income people and
attained effective involvement of the private sector.
7.        The   principal   lessons   of   this  institutionally  complex  and
financially disappointing urban operation are the need to make such projects
more manageable by following a subsectoral approach (Part 1, para. 14) and to
focus greater attention on the establishment and administration of effective
cost recovery mechanisms (Part I, para. 39). A related lesson is the need to
rationalize the regulatory and bureaucratic framework in which urban land
development and shelter provision presently takes place in the Philippines
(Part I, paras. 31-32).



PART I
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
>oject Same:         Third Urban Development Project
Loan Number:          1821-PH
RVP Unit:            Asia
Country:              Philippines
Sector:              Urban Development
Subsectors:          shelter, small business lending, infrastructure
municipal development
II. BACKGROlnND
1.    Sector Background.  Develoament Obiectives.  and Policy Context:   The
project was intended as a multi-faceted urban development project designed
to contii.ie rnew low cost solutions to shelter problems (upgrading through both
ZIP and MMINJTE, and  public  sector  serviced sites) and test a number of
innovative new ideas (private sector serviced sites, commercially viable micro-
enterprise lending schemes, internal MMC solid waste operations), as well as
significantly strengthen the newly created Metro Manila Commission (MMC) whose
job it was to coordinate development in the metronolitan area. See paras 1.01
-1.07 of Part II.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.    Project Objectives and Components:  The project objectives are spelled
out in para 1.03 of Part II.  The main project components were:    (a) ZIP
upgrading with tenure,   (b) MMINUTE upgrading without tenure,  (c) Public
Serviced sites by NHA, (d) private sector serviced sites utilizing construction
loans by PSSP, (e) small business loans by TRC's ULFP, (f) Solid Waste
Improvement by MMC, (g) Taxmapping by MMC and Local Governments, and (h) a
complex set of technical assistance and studies for the above agencies plus
several others. See para 2.01 of Part II.
IV, PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS. LESSONS AND ISSUES
3.    The attached PCR prepared by the Borrower (Part II) fully discusses
project results, and distills a number of useful lessons emerging from the
experience of Urban III.   It is generally appropriately focused on policy
issues and future directions. This section (Part I) will therefore highlight
a few of the more important or interesting features of the project, cover any
key points omitted, and note the Bank's perspective where it differs from the
that of the Borrower.   Comments have been received from the Borrower and
incorporated as appropriate in all three sections of this report.
Hip hlights
4.    #1:  Project  Restructuring  and  Physical  Expansion.              Project
implementation encountered severe economic and political turbulence, requiring
three  extensions  to  the  closing  date.    However,  physical  achievements
eventually reached targetted levels, and in the case of several components,
significantly exceeded them.  The Key Indices Table (Attachment 1) shows NHA's
ZIP upgrading program serviced about 26,000 plots, 53% more than the SAR target
of 17,000; 6,000 sites were developed in Pasig vs. 3,300 targeted (nearly



-2-
twice); the PSSP serviced over 4,000 lots vs. 2,800 targeted (a 43% increase);
and the Taxmapping pr,.'ect, which achieved a remarkable 15 month cost recovery
based  only  on  partial  completion,  was  added  to  the  project.    These
accomplishments were possible, of course, because of the dramatic depreciation
of the peso from 7.4 at appraisal to 21.0 at completion, and greater buying
power of the project's dollars.   The unprecedented inflation (Attachment 2)
which triggered what theoretically should have been approximately equivalent
devaluation, actually resulted in additional purchasing capacity of the
project's dollars.
5.    The use of dollar savings was endorsed by the Bank through a formal
restructuring of the project in 1985, which acknowledged the need for an
additional two years for completion and, in effect, shifted the project more
toward programmatic support of serviced sites, upgrading and small business
lending.   Thus the lengthened implementation has yielded additionality in
project benefits and should not be characterized strictly as a time overrun.
vlork was completed in nine rather than five years, an extension of 80%.  The
nine year actual implementation period is about average for Asia Region Urban
projects  (8 vears).    The  initial  four year  implementation  schedule was
therefore unrealistic for such a complex operation; it represented a target
figure.     The close achievement of dollar costs  ($120.4 vs.  $120.0 at
appraisal) also reflects the programmatic nature of the oneration more than any
great accuracy of either the initial estimates or implementation achievements,
as physical works were expanded to target and mop up all the available dollars
under the loan.
6.    #2- Success of Small Business Lending Scheme.    The Urban Livelihood
Financing Program (ULFP) component which was designed to test whether lending
operations to small scale informal sector entrepreneurs could be done on a
financially viable basis, appears to have succeeded.  The .onger term objective
was to ultimately bring commercial banks into this segment of microenterprise
lending operations. The Socialized Credit Scheme (SCS) made credit available
to groups rather than individuals, collateralized with small personal goods
with resale value such as TVs, refrigerators, bicycles, etc.. Fluctuation in
individual monthly incomes were covered by the group, since default by the
group resulted in termination of the credit line for all individuals.   In
addition to SCS,  the ULFP program experimented with equity positions and
lending to selected medium size businesses.  A total of $6.5 aillion of the
Bank's loan was invested in ULFP.
7.    Despite  a very  rocky  start,  and five  changes  in  leadership,  this
component appears to have achieved its financial objectives. In 1986 and 1987
the ULFP reported a real return (after taxes and inflation) (f between 1%-2%.
This is generally considered sufficient to attract private capital.  This is
partly due, of course, to the unusually low inflation rates of these two years
(0.8 and 3.8% respectively), and to the earnings being realized on ULFP's high
liquidity (due to short term lending). Early equity investments and a few
large, insufficiently secured loans turned sour and are presently being
liquidated, thus the overhang of past due arrearage and foreclosed assets is
high. However, net of these old arrears, collections are now an encouraging
97% of current amounts due. Together with ULFP's loan loss reserve (presently
6.8% of outstanding loan principal) this would be sufficient to sustain
profitability.



- 3 -
8.    Rapid inflation in early 1988 (from 3.8% to 9% in 3 months) required a
sharp upward adjustment in rates in mid year for ULFP to remain profitable.
Year-end results are not yet available. However, if the program's financial
success can be sustained, there is re&son to hope that the ULFP can and will be
replicated in larger scale by commercial banks. As ULFP grows, such a move
should be encouraged, since this operation is essentially a banking function
within TRC and is not presently subject to any kind of regulatory inspection or
control.
9.   #3: Lowered Subsidies (InMroved Pricing by NHA).  Cost recovery involves
three features: pricing, sales and collections. While the latter two remained
problematic in Urban III (see paras 18 and 22 for local government performance,
and para 35 for NHA performance), improvement occurred over Urban 1 and II in
pricing.   Direct charging of development costs comprises a key element in
helping ensure greater replicability and cost recovery, since any capital costs
not directly charged to recipients either (a) increases the subsidy burxen on
government, or (b) is recovered through indirect means such as MWSS tariffs
which have proven problematic and elusive in actually achieving full recovery.
10.   Annex 6 of Part II shows a distinct increase under UrbFn III in NHA's
direct allocation of development costs to beneficiaries.   Under previous
projects, sometimes ad-hoc pricing decisions placed a major burder of cost
sharing on subsidy (NHA, local and national governments) and on indirect
recovery through MWSS tariffs.  Because the MWSS' tariff structure is cross-
subsidized, full recovery from low income groups is not generally possible
without a restructuring of the tariff. Under Urban I only 37% of development
cost was directly charged to beneficiaries, with 35% charged to subsidy (NHA
17% and other line agencies 18%, and the balance charged to MWSS (28%). Under
Urban II direct ch.rges increased to 50%, with subsidies still bearing over a
third (37%) (NHA 3% and other line agencies 34%) and MWSS shouldering about
13%. Following continuing improvements in pricing policy, Urban III achieved
direct recovery of 74% of total development costs, with subsidy of only 10% or
less than a third of that under Urban II, and indirect charges through MWSS
still about 16%.   ZIP sites were best, with Phase I sites achieving 71% direct
recovery from beneficiaries, and Phase II fully 84%. Pasig sites and services
trailed significantly with only 64% directly recovered, but still well ahead of
the NHA's first major serviced site of Dagat Dagatan, which achieved only 37%.
11.   The best performance with regard to cost allocation,  however,  was
delivered by PSSP, under which fully 94% of costs were recovered through direct
charges to beneficiaries.   The balance 6% was subsidized.   Such a charging
structure implies that the use of private sector developers capable of
utilizing smaller infill pockets of land (which require little expensive trunk
infrastructure) can and will significantly reduce public sector expenditures
for shelter development.
Direct Charge           Subsidy              Indirect Charges
to B .nficiaries ---------------------------------- tbrough
NMA   LGUs  Nti Govt  Total       MWSS
Urban I (tnol Tondo)  37S        172   ---   182      35X          28X
Urban II             50S         ---  32   34Z        372          132
Urban III (NBA)      742         22   22   62         lO          16S
POOLg SI$         64X         ---   ---   112      11X          25X
ZIP Phase I       71X         12   62   62         132          162
ZIP Pbase II     842         5S   ---   3X         8S           8S
PSSP              942         ---   ---  62        62



-4.
Lessons
12.   Lesson #1: Project Complexity.    "overnment's PCR ciearly outlines the
problems which arose from attempting such a complex project with eight quite
distinct components involving five different agencies (plus the newly created
Management Coordination Board (MCB)).   All of the componen:s were complex
programs in themselves (four involving essentially banking operations).
Several   represented   quite   innovative   experiments   requiring   constant
reassessment of ongoing experience and adjustment of approach during
implementation. To manage this process, the MCB was established with its own
Technical Secretariat (TS) which gradually inflated to fully 120 people at its
peak, spending a total of $2.1 million.  None of the project components were
linked and each functioned essentially independently of one another. While the
MCB Board did provide a useful forum for interagency dialogue, expenditures on
the Technical Secretariat (which were not financed by the Bank) comprised an
unproductive use of scarce government funds.
13.   The establishment of the MCB/TS was essentially for the convenience of
the Bank, in managing what was otherwise an unmanageable project. Fully 32
reports required review each year (seven individual quarterly reports plus four
annual audit reports). The SAR estimated a requirement of 25 staffweeks (SW)
of field effort for the first two years, and 15 SW per year thereafter,
totalling 285 including office time through the end of 1984, four years later,
when completior was expected.   Actual SW inputs over the project life from
1980-1988 tota:'.Led only 161 or about half. Viewed another way, the SAR planned
for 57 SW per year for loan supervision, and subsequent budgetary realities
delivered 18,  or  less  than  a third of that  anticipated.    Under  ideal
circumstances, this would have been a difficult project.   The subsequent
collapse of the Philippine economy during the heart of the implementation
period from 1983-1986 (para 3.01 of Part II) made the task yet more
problematic.
14.   As noted in the PCR on Urban II, subsequent Bank operations in the urban
sector have been structured along narrower sub-sectoral lines, allowing greater
focus on sectoral policy and institutions.   The recently approved Housing
Sector Loan and Municipal Development I and II projects offer examples. Such
operations have not required government to establish artificial coordinating
structures with full time staff to manage project complexity, and should
hopefully prove more compatible with the tighter Bank supervision coefficients
of recent years.   The price of greater focus has been the elimination of
support for some of the activities (e.g. TRC's ULFP small business loan program
discussed above) which proved viable as an experiment and merit eventual
expansion.
15.   Lesson #2: Studies Overload.    Part III, Table 6D lists the 13 studies
undertaken as part of Urban III. As a general point, this was far too many
studies to be well supervised by the Bank and well absorbed by the Borrower.
Fully 90 staff years of TA was programmed at appraisal, 551 and 529 manmonths
of foreign and local advisory assistance.   All required the Bank's normal
rcview of TOR, procurement and contracting which proved time consuming. The
appraisal promised an exceptionally wide array of institutional strengthening,
particularly with regard to MMC, nearly all of which require complex behavioral



- 5 -
and systemic change within institutions which occurs only slowly and only
through intensive, consistent and committed effort by all concerned. With the
benefit of greater experience as well as hindsight, the project's institutional
TA objectives are now recognized as overly ambitious.
16.   A number of the studies have proven useful.  The Construction Industry
Study, Taxmapping study/TA, Solid Waste Master Plan Update, TEAM Traffic
Management,  and  project  preparations  for  the  Municipal  Development  I
(PREMIUMED) and Regional Cities Development Project (Urban IV, RCDP) both of
which resulted in Bank loans, all achieved identifiable results and are
generally considered useful.   The Urban V preparation,  involving another
complex multi-faceted urban project, was aborted and replaced as noted above,
with the separate housing sectot and municipal loan streams.
17.   Lesson #3: Overly Ambitious Institutional Strengthening Obiectives for
MMC. The remaining 6 studies targeted on strengthening MMC's capabilities in
municipal management, on which about $1.4 million was spent, ultimately
produced little lasting impact, due largely to the MMCs increasing politization
during the Marcos years and eventual dismantling under the new governrment.
These studies were all contracted in the first three years of the project, and
included (a) a Management Review to identify areas where MMC should build
capabilities, (b) Physical Planning to develop a physical framework plan, (c)
Financial Systems to improve fiscal management, (d) Capital Investment Folio to
establish a rational basis for project prioritization and investment, (e) Urban
Land Management to study land utilization and regulation, and (f) Physical
Survey (MMAPS) to establish a master reference system for development projects.
18.   The  effort  to  strengthen  MMC  was  well  intentioned  and  probably
appropriate at the time of appraisal, when the Commission had just been
established and mandated with a clearly critical coordination function among
the 17 existing local governments comprising Metro Manila.   The fundamental
problem lay in the nature of MMC. The Commission's fatal flaws were embedded
from inception in its legal framework as a Presidential Commission of 5
individuals, appointed by and accountable only to the President, with full
taxation powers. MMC structurally was unresponsive to and unrepresentative of
the city's large and fairly sophisticated populace, who had no voice in its
actions. Not surprisingly, it was resented and resisted from the outset by the
local governments, and their elected mayors.  When the change of government
occurred in early 1986, MMC was one of the first targets for reform. The new
constitution, approved in early 1987, formally dissolved the Metro Manila
Commission. The current government recognizes the need for metropolitan wide
coordination and management, and alternative structures based on more direct
representation of the population have been under consideration by Congress.
19.   In 1985, as conditions deteriorated,  the Bank withdrew from further
funding of M1C initiatives.  The proposed Organization and Management Study was
shelved, pending the outcome of internal organizational reviews of MMC.
However, in view of the serious metropolitan-wide issues still unresolved (e.g.
traffic congestion, solid waste management, environmental pollution), the
solution of which urgently require effective coordination of the many local
governnent's individual initiatives and energies, future assistance might again
be contemplated to MMC's eventual successor at some point in the future.



- 6 -
Meanwhile,  attention has been focused on more direct assistance to local
government units (LGUs).
20.   Lesson #4:  Weak Control of Proiect Costs.   Lack of control over total
commitments under technical assistance and studies was a major cause of
restructuring the project. By early 1984 it was clear the total contractual
obligations for studies of about $11 million significantly exceeded the $7.35
million allocated at appraisal. Since the Bank disbursed 100%, and TA funds
were to be provided as grants to agencies, discipline was lax in their use.
Bank "no objectionsw had beer given based essentially on procurement, TOR and
contractual signoffs, but withiout any internal monitoring of commitment or
expenditure control. Final expenditures for studies totalled $11.4 million, an
overrun on appraisal figures of over 50%. Following project restructuring, a
control system was set in place to ensure expenditures did not exceed those
agreed. To the credit of all agencies, these ceilings were thereafter strictly
observed. No agency exceeded its allotted loan amount, despite the lack within
the Bank of any way to enforce such a limit, since six different agencies were
drawing against a single disbursement category for Technical Assistance and
Training.    To have established separate categories for each agency and each
category would have been difficult and unwieldy for the Bank. Termination of
such institutional complexity in subsequent projects, as well as improved
internal monitoring and controls on the part of both the Bank and the Borrower
have resolved this problem.
21.   Lesson #5: Local Government (LGU) Particigation in ZIP Mortgages.  Local
government performance under the project was disappointing, as it was under
Urban II with respect to their proposed role under the shelter components.
The project envisioned that completed ZIP sites (both assets (mortgages) and
liabilities (peso loans from Govt and NHA )) would be turned over to local
governments upon completion for maintenance and cost recovery. NHA indicates
it opposed this arrangement at appraisal on the grounds that local government
units (LGUs) would not vigorously pursue cost recovery. As it turned out, the
Authority was right. Collection on the first two ZIP sites which were turned
over to the respective LGUs upon completion, is now reported at or below 5%
(compared with 46% for NHA sites).
22.   This parallelled experience under the Urban II SIR component, where
cities took over completed sites with a subsequent virtual collapse of mortgage
sales and collections.    Of the 10,000 completed upgrading .nd serviced site
units, as of 6/88 only 16% were even reported to be under collection in Cebu.
The figures for Cagayan and Davao are little better at 35% and 38%
respectively.   These low figures reflect the political realities of local
government pressures; collection even on property taxes is estimated at around
only 50%.
23.   As a result of this experience,  the Bank agreed in 1984 to abandon plans
to transfer mortgages to LGUs. Collection was left for the moment with NHA.
Though below ideal levels, the 77% sales record on ZIP Phase I sites (meaning
77% of completed units are under collection), and 46% collection efficiency is
well above the levels achieved by local governments under both Urban II and
III.



- 7 -
24.   Under the subsequent Housing Sector Loan it was agreed with Government
that mortgage servicing would be done preferably by a housing finance
institution such as NHMFC, or for existing mortgages (until they can be sold),
NHA. Though they may in future act as housing developers, local governments
are not mandated to function as mortgage servicing institutions.
25.   L.Qsson #6: More Direct Local Government Role under MHINUTE.  Even under
the MNINUTE component, local government's did not realize the intended cost
recovery through property reassessments which was to be the expected vehicle.
Funding was passed from the Bank and Government directly to DPWH/MMINUTE which
implemented the project. The subsequent planned transfers of assets to both
MWSS and MMC/LGUs did, in fact, occur toward the end of the project. However,
the associated debt remained with the national government.   Now that the
benefits have been delivered, and the assets transferred, it will be
exceedingly difficult to separately effect a post-facto transfer of the
liabilities to these local governments.   It was perhaps rather unrealistic,
even at appraisal to expect this could be easily accomplished after completion
of construction. Since the debt obligation was not on the books of the local
governments, none felt compelled to increase property assessments in the
affecteA  areas.    Attempts  were made by  GOP  itself  to  update/undertake
reassessment in 1985 and again in 1987, but were deferred under political
pressure related to elections. Another attempt is expected in 1989/90.
26.   The subsequent NMINUTE II (Municipal Development II) project, now being
appraised by the Bank, has corrected this project design problem by ensuring a
direct flow of the Bank loan through the Municipal Development Fund to Local
Governments,  who  will  be  the  borrowers.    LGUs  will  also  bear  direct
responsibility for project implementation, with technical guidance from the
MMINUTE staff. This will not, in itself, guarantee the subsequent increases 'n
property assessments needed to achieve indirect cost recovery, but together
with close monitoring by both government and the Bank, should enhance its
prospects.
27.   A  closely  related point  is that the MMINUTE program was  designed
specifically to complement, and not compete with, NHA's ZIP upgrading. The
distinctions between ti.e two programs are three: first, ZIP delivers tenure
through  title  which  MMINUTE  does  not  since  it  is  liiited  to  already
individually tenured areas; second, ZIP delivers a comprehensive package of
services while NMINUTE is intended to provide much more limited services to a
much larger number of people with lower subsequent per unit/dwelling
investment; and third (and most important), under ZIP, cost recovery is through
direct monthly charges, while MMINUTE appears 'free" to residents, with capital
recovery only indirectly through increased property tax assessments, which, as
noted above, never actually occurred.
28.   Tlhus to avoid undermining NHA's cost recovery efforts, it is important
that NMINUTE improvements be kept relatively small on a per dwelling basis, and
limited to tenured sites.   If implemented in untenured sites (e.g. public
rights of way) cost recovery could not take place since the property would not
be reflected on the tax rolls. If implemented in large single holdings, where
invasion has occurred, and which typically count among the 50% of properties
not paying property taxes anyway, the program is likely to undermine and
compete with NHA's upgrading program by providing the appearance and reality of
"free' services. (Owners who do not pay tax will not pass on this tax.) Such



cases represent somewhat of a grey area, and if they arise, should probably be
discussed with NHA before implementation on a case-by-case basis.
29.   Once NMINUTE investments have occurred,  residents  feel secure  that
government will not uproot or destroy these investments. Thus, the distinction
between formalized tenure (a papered title) and the sense of security which
results in a community by government recognition and investment is narrow, at
best. Asked to choose between P20,000 of charged services with a title and
monthly payments, and P20,000 of "free" services without the paper title,
residents might well choose the latter. Under the current highly politicized
conditions in the Philippines, those beeiag askged to sign mortgages by NHA under
the ZIP mortgage program might refuse, feeling unfairly treated. Since NHA is
achieving only a 50% rate on signature of mortgages in Bank-assisted upgraded
areas, a problem definitely exists though it is not clear that the MMINUTE
program is a primary, or even contributory cause. Close attention is therefore
needed in the design of follow-up investments to keep from undermining and
eroding NHA's already troubled cost recovery efforts.
30.   The principles  agreed under MMINUTE I of non-competition with ZIP
programs, and the two distinctions noted above of small per dwelling
investments, and restriction of investments to tenured sites have been
structured into the followup Project (Municipal Development II) recently
appraised by the Bank.   However, if local government investments ultimately
undermine cost recovery under mortgage upgrading operations because of weak
enforcement of indirect cost recovery by LGUs, further investment in one or the
other may have to be cut back or terminated.   In view of the urgent and
pressing demands for improved services, this would be unfortunate.
Remaining Issues
31.      Issue #1: Regulatory Bottlenecks.    Government's PCR (Part II para
8.11) outlines the serious problems encountered by several components in
obtaining subdivision approval and individual titling. Protracted delays of
over two  years have occurred in some cases.  Lack of individual titles, in
turn, has obstructed signature of mortgages in the ZIP program as well as both
the NHA and PSSP serviced site programs, seriously impeding cost recovery.
Once occupancy has been tolerated for an extended period without payment, cos-
recovery becomes a virtual impossibility under the politicized post-revolution
Philippine environment. Thus such delays carry high, though indirect, costs to
both the public and private sector. As problems with bureaucratic obstructions
have crystallized, fears have grown that the investment component of the
Housing Sector Loan (US$80 million) could encounter significant delays
attributable to this cause.
32.      Government's PCR calls for a national program to improve service
delivery and streamline bureaucratic procedures involved in subdivision of
titles,  r, gistration/annotation of deeds, government permits and licenses,
mortgage processing procedures and inspection procedures. Though some of these
concerns will be addressed in a preliminary way under the Housing Sector Loan,
it may be worthwhile to explore with Government more direct and more extensive
means of addressing these obstructions which are convoluted, time-consuming to
understand, well entrenched, and difficult to reform because of the endemic
petty graft which often underlics tham.



-9-
33.   Issue #2: Delayed Occupancy in Serviced Sites.   The PCR also clearly
notes the problems being encountered in occupancy of both the Cielito Homes
(PSSP) and Pasig (NHA) sites, having only respectively 28% and 11% of units
occupied (paras 5.26-5.32). A similar problem is being experienced in the
Kauswagan site in Cagayan de Oro, developed by NHA under Urban II where
occupancy is about one third.   Cielito suffered from innumerable startup
tribulations and was problematic from the beginnirg.   Its present problems
involve legal snarls under litigation, and are therefore more easily
understood.    Pasig,  however,  has  remained unoccupied for  two years  and
represents a serious and puzzling issue.
34.   The cause of the problem is under investigation by NHA.  Fully 81% of
lots are sold, and collections are reported to be an impressive 90% (net of
arrears) on these lots. Thus plotholders appear to be aware of the value of
their property and anxious to retain it. The PCR outlines a number of possible
explanations, including (a) allocation (via lottery) to moderate income
households who are unwilling or unable to complete dwellings by self-help (an
explanation which is strengthened by the use of Pasig as a test site for
mortgage sales to NHMFC, and thus the acceptance of a proportion of formally
employed applicants), (b) lack of titles to secure construction loans by these
moderate income households, (c) lack of building materials on site, and (d)
lack of standardized building plans, help with building permits, and technical
assistance in house construction.   An additional explanation may be that
lottery winners are speculating on thes. well located, and valuable properties.
NHA has not yet enforced sanctions against beneficiaries who have failed to
initiate development within six months, as st!pulated in the sale agreement.
35.   Widespread vacancy in this large site in which nearly $20 million has
been invested, conveys the impression of weak demand i:or self-help -erviced
sites.    The appearance of disinterest, however, markedly contradicts the
strong market resporse when the first 700 lots in Pasig were made available in
early 1985. Wichin six days, 20,000 applicants responded, of whom 17,000 were
financially qualified. Such strong demand, together with the relatively high
payment rate would further point to possible speculation by moderate income,
employed owners.
36.   A further facet of the problem is that while NHA is getting paid, MWSS is
not.   Recovery on water and sewer investments was to occur through tariff
payments. However, with occupancy rates of only 11%, MWSS is realizing very
little return on this expenditure, representing about 25% of total costs or $5
million. Maintenance of the system with low water flow will be problematic.
37.   It is likely that a variety of factors is at play in Pasig, rather than
any single cause.   In November NHA formulated an Action Plan based on the
findings of the survey noted in the PCR as being underway, to begin to enforce
sanctions, cancel sales of non-payers, develop standard building plans and
technical assistance, and help community groups engage contractors and labor to
initiate construction. Meetings have taken place with groups of plotholders to
either rescind the sale or begin construction. Hopefully close followup by NHA
management will yield results.   However,  this remains one of the primary
concerns upon project coLpIation, and will be the subject of followup under the
Housing Sector Loan.



- 10 -
38.   Issue 03:  NHA Cost Recovery (Sales and Collections).  Government's PCR
echos continuing and justified concerns regarding the financial viability and
replicability of the upgrading and serviced site program.   Cost recovery
involves the compounded effects of (a) pricing policy, (b) sales, and (c)
collection efficiency, since expenditures not allocated to beneficiaries cannot
be recovered, units not sold cannot be collected, and sums not collected are
lost to NHA.
39.   Based on sales and collection performance to date on Phase I only of the
ZIP program, overall cost recovery is only about 39% of total expenditures
(assuming 100% recovery by M?SS of water/sewer costs charged off to that
agency).   About 11% of total cost is allocated as grant funds for schools,
clinics, roads and writeoffs, and the balance 50% is lost to the compounded
effect of slow sales (23% not yet sold) and weak collections (46%). Of the two,
collections are the most pressing problem.   Poor collection performance is
either attributable to weak administration by NHA, to unwillingness by
recipients to pay for the services and tenure provided, or to politization of
payments.   Whatever its cause,  this low level of recovery raises serious
questions about the financial viability of squatter upgrading in the
Philippines over the longer term.   The Shelter Sector Loan assumed all but
about 15% of recoverable investment would be renaid. The ZIP program so far is
showing a loss of fully 56% of recoverable investment. Either lot pricing will
have to be significantly increased to add a sizable margin for such losses, or
major government subsidy will be required to sustain the program.
40.   Pasig serviced sites are somewhat more encouraging with 72% recovered
(assuming 100% recovery of MWSS costs), 11% grant funding, and 17% lost to the
effects of slow sales and collections. Of the 89% recoverable, 19% is still
being lost, however, primarily to delays in titling which make sale difficult.
On a site of this size, this represents a loss of nearly $4 million which would
otherwise be available for reinvestment.   Table 37.1 on the following page
summarizes compounded cost recovery in the NHA ZIP and Pasig sites.
Miscellaneous Observations/Recommendations
a. Special Account. The PCR (para 6.03) blames the lack of a Special Account
for the decline in disbursements which occurred from 1984 through 1986.
Elsewhere, however, it notes clearly the more probable cause which was
the economic and financial decline which occurred during those years and
the consequent contracting, budgeting, procurement, and payment problems
which resulted. These problems were followed by extensive institutional
uncertainties and changes following the change of government in early
1986 which further slowed contract awards and disbursement (see paras.
3.01 and 5.04 in particular).
b. Greater use of SOE procedures to reduce Procurement Reviews. The Special
Account proved very effective, however, and could only be improved by
ensuring in future that SOE procedures are utilized for small civil works
contracts. Under this project SOEs were used only for sub-loans.   All
civil works contracts had to be reviewed on either a pre- or post-award
basis, leading to an overload of review requirements on the part of Bank
staff for quite small civil works and survey contracts often amounting to
only a few thousand US dollars.



- 11 -
c. MKINUTE Emphasis on Roads/Drainage.   As  shown in Figure VI.2 of Part  II,
the MNINUTE component eventually developed substantially more roads and
drainage facilities than planned at appraisal (75% of total costs vs. 61%
at  appraisal,   translating  in  physical  terms  into  153  kms  vs.  64  kms
planned), at the expense of water supply and sanitation (11% vs. 29% of
planned  expenditures).    The  reasons  quoted  for  this  distinct  shift  of
emphasis involved difficulties in obtaining land and rights of way, and
are doubtless true. In addition, political pressures were often intense
for road/drainage improvements which had more immediate impact on
property values.
Table 37.1
NU COMPOUNDED COST RECOVERY
Pricing PolLcy
Total  --------------------------------------              Sales        Collection      TOTAL
Expenditure Allocated to    Allocated to    Subtidized                     Efficiency   RUHE)
D4eficiaries        MWSS
2IP PROGM 1001           77X             121             lX
-------------------------------------------------------------
Rcoveary
by NRA                   77%                                       77Xx77 - 59     46Xx59 - 27 27Z (35X)
(Phase i)       (Phase I)
Recovery
by MWSS                                   121                      assume 1001     assume 100S 121 (100X)
SUMMARY:    TOTAL RECOVERED              391
=------     TOTAL SUBSIDIZED             11X
TOTAL LOST TO SALESICOLL     501
TOTAL INVESTMENT         13OX
SMMVICED
SITES       1001         641             25X              llX
Recovery
by NUA                   64                                        81Xx64 - 52     90Sx52 - 47 471 (731)
Recovery
by MWSS                                  25                        assume 1001     assume 1002 252 (1002)
SUMMARY:    TOTAL RECOVERED               72Z
TOTAL SUBSIDIZED             llX
TOTAL LIST TO SALESICOLL     17i



- 12 -
Attachment 1
TABLE OF KEY INDICES
CoMPnt                SAR Target                              Actual                         I of SAR
Zonal            a.  Improvement of 13 sites ....          Improv nt of 31 sites                      +138X
Improvement      b.  Servlce to 160,000 people ........ Service to 350,000 ppl                        +118S
Program (ZIP)    a.  Service to 17,000 plots .........Servlce to 25,882 plots (elsewhere              +53X
shown as 26,075) (15,781 & 10,294)
d.  Unit Sale Price P12,261 .Average sale prlce P25.500 (Annex 7                    ----
of Part 'I)s P19,500 Phs Is and
P27,300 Phs II (Annex 6-Cost Alloc)
a.  Unit cost $1,768 average .....     Unit cost $1,690 average                     -41
($43.7 costl25,882 plots)
P24,500 average unit cost
(P635.5125,882)
f.  Affordability to 10th  ile ..      Average affordability to te  10th            100X
percentlle (Annex 7 of Par' II).
However, several sites exceed limits,
raising questions of suitabilLty for ZIP
(West Crame: only 35th to 55th Zile can
affords Sitio Matang: 23rd Xlles and
Albina Altura: 35th lile)
g.  Investment of $43.3 m ..           Investment of $43.7 m                        100X
h.  100X completion .1002 of original sites completed,
and 802 of extended sites. Weighted         87X
total: 87X as of 6188
i.  1002 sales .12,088 signed mortgages of the
15,781 Phase I completedt          Phs I... 771
0 signed of the 3,115 completed
under Phase II                     Phs II. .O
J.  1002 collections ................. 462 collections on units under
collection (range from 132 to 1001)         462
Metro Manila     a.  Service to 11 LGUs .Serrvice to 17 LGUs                                          +54X
Infrastructure, b.  Service to 300,000 persons .         Service to 867,000 people (direct)           +189X
Utilities, and                                           and 1,400,000 indirect per PCR of
Engineering                                              Government
(MIInUTz)        c.  Unlit Cost Lower than ZIP ........ Uuit cost P3,980 ($190) vs. P25,500          OK
(aprox P7,200 ($974)               for ZIP or 16X of ZIP (P345.1m/86,700
dwelling units e 10 ppl/unit)
d.  Tenured sites only ............... Tenured sites only                           OK
e.  Physical works:
-- 64 kms of road impvmts ........ 153 1m& of road lmpvnts                     +139X
-- 200 kms of drainage impvmt .... 226.4 kms total, comprising 39.2            +13X
major and 187.2 minor vorks
-- 86 units of community ......... abandoned (1 built) due to technical        ---
septic tanks              and social reasons
-- 60 public toilets 1/ .......... 41 publlc toilets                           681
-- 365 public water faucets ...... 203 public water faucets                    562
f.  Financial turnover of liabil- .. . .P1Om or 31 of total expenditures
ities to MWSS and MffC             turned over to MWSS as of this date          3X
g.  Cost recovery through indirect
mans of increased property .       Not achieved                                 ---
values
Private Site     a.  Development of 2,840 lots ........ Development of 4,063 lots                     +432
and Services     b.  Affordability to lower income.... Based on two completed sltes and               OK
(PSSP)                for at least 702 of units          projections for five sites:
31X of unlts affordable to 20th lile & under
402 of units affordable to 40th lile & under
701 of units affordable to 50th 2ile & under
c.  1002 completion.                    75X completion (3029 units)                 75S
d.  100  sales .572 sold (2,316 units)                                              57X
e.  1002 occupancy ................... 211 occupancy (846 units)                    212
f.  100X mortgage sales to NHMFC ..... 172 sold (706 units)                         172
g.  1OO2 recovery of construction .... Data not yet available                       MA
loan P & I
Public Sites     a.  development of 3,300 lots .         Development of 6,002 lots                    +82X
and Services     b.  Sale Price P9,700-P32,000
(NM)                 weighted average P 14,200 .         Sale Prlce average P25,600 (Annex 6)        +80S
Avg Sale Price in $1,920 .         Avg Sale Price $2,061 e 12.42 excb rt    + 7S
average for Public SS component
1-Dtafo------oumnsan-i-o---prt----T-tafiniae-6pulc-o-t
1/ Data fromt Working Documents and Villoria Report. MMINUS staff indLcate 16 public toilets



- 13 -
Attacbment 1 p.2
Component             SM Target                              Actual                         2 of SAR
c.  Affordability to lower income .... Sale prices range from P16,000 to
for at least 70X of units ........ P38,000 affordable to households from
the 18th Sil* to the 20th lile (i.e.       OK
affordoble to 802 of MM). Distribution
not available.
d.  10OX ceompletion  .     .0........... lOS physical completion except for       10lX
individual titles
e.  100l sales    .      .............. Of 6,002 lots, 4,850 sold (81Z)           x81
f.  1OOZ occupancy .    ................. Of 6,002 lots, 687 occupied              IIl
g.  1002 collections ...    ........... 90S collections (net of arrears)      901 net
data not provided inel arrears
TRC Urban        a.  Generation of 6,000 new jobs ..... TRC reports 28,471 jobs generated           +374Z
Livelihood           at a cost of $657 per job ........ at a cost of $250 per job, but the          381
Flnancing                                               assumptions and basis of this
Program                                                 calculation is unclear and probably
(ULIP)JTRC                                              different from the SAR
b.  1002 collectionsicost rec ........i nitially large arrears and fore-
closed assets now being liquidated,
collections now 972 of amount due       972 net
net of arrears; 461 including the       462 arr
large initial arrears
a.  Total beneficiaries not .......... 30,541 total borrowers                      ---
Identified
d.  Return on equity not identified ..Following startup period, ULIP               ---
but targeted to be positive ..... achieved a real return after taxes and
inflation in 1986 of 22 and 1987 of 12
Solid Waste      a.  Drain cleaning and support ....... Abandoned
Improvement          for waste recycllng of NNC
Component        b.  Plot to test whether MHC ........ Pilot carried out with about 5,000 HB
(SWIP)               internal operations were more    but efficiency of MRC operations were
efficient Involving 5,000 HE      never properl- eoste  and tested before
expansion
c.  Extension phase to service ....... Extension to service 110,000 RH; no data
120,000 RH in lowest income        to indicate exactly which areas are
areas and markets                  being serviced with this equipment
d.  Acqulsition of 25 trucks ......... Acquired 16 trucks and 140 refuse           641
handc-rts                          containero, followed immediately by
Japanese grant donation of an addLtional
116 trucks for NMC operation
TaxMapping       a.  Identlfleation of additional ..... 65,000 additional properties identlfied,
by NMC               properties not Included in         552 assessed for added value of P67 m
(CORPTEP)            tax roles (no specific targets)  to tax roles; and expected collection of
about 502 efficiency for a yield in the
first year of about P33.5 m.
b.  Rapid recovery of costs .......... P 43 m total cost expected to be
recovered in about 15 montba. Actual
expenditures to date of P32 m shonld be
recovered wLthin the flrst year
c.  Completion of computerization .... Not achieved, still underway
before June 1988 and remain-
ing valuations on 451 of
identified properties
Technical        a.  Significant strengthening of ..... Not achieved. See Part I discussion.
Assistance &          the metropolitan planning
Studies              capacity of MMC
General          a.  Implementation ln 4 years ........ IplementatIl  in 7.5 years from             +88S
from 6180-6184                    6180-12187   .th full cempletion of
l lagging component ln 3190



- 14 -
Attachment 2
INFLATION
'I                 _. 
Project Implementation
o"     it"        ton)  at 43)t"     im au  a
~~~~~ cm (e)                     +        op "} O 



- 15 -
PART II
INTEGRATED PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT
URBAN III
JUNE 1989



- 16 -
Philippines
Project Completion Report
Third Urban Development Project
(Loan 1821-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    Conditions Leading to the Project ...............................  18
II. The Project .19
III. Major Results .20
IV. Project Costs .22
V.    Project Implementation
A. Overview .26
B. ZIP .28
C. MINUTE .29
D. Livelihood ................ ...............................  30
E. Serviced Sites ............................................  31
F. SWIP ....................... ...............................  34
G. Tax Mapping ................................. .............  35
H. Summary .............................................                                                       35
VI.   Financial and Economic Performance
A. Overview ....... ...........................................  35
B. NHA ............................................                                                            36
C. MMINUTE .............................................                                                       38
D. PSSP .............................................                                                          40
E. TLRC ............... ...................................... 41
F. MHC ............................................                                                            41
G. Summary ............................................                                                        42
H. Economic Reevaluation ........................                                                              42
VII. Institutional Performance
A. Overview .43
B. NRA .43
C. MINUTE/DPWH .44
D. PSSP .46
E. TRC .46
F. MKC ............................................. 47
G. Consultants .47
H. Bank Staff .48
VIII. Lessons and Prospects .48



- 17 -
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS
Figure IV.1   Total Project Costs .................................... 23
Figure IV.2   Loan Drawdown by Agency ................................ 25
Figure V.1    Implementation Schedule ................................ 27
Figure V.2    Disbursements .......................................... 29
Figure V.3    PSSP Program Schedule .................................. Missing
Figure VI.1    ZIP and Pasig Accounts Generated ....................... 37
Figure VI.2   MMINUTE Comparison of Appraisal and Current Cost ....... 39
Figure VI.3   Affordability of PSSP .................................. 40
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1    NHA Summary Status of Implementation (Physical) ........... 54-55
ANNEX 1-A  NHA Detailed Status of Implementation by Site on
Expanded Zip Sites still under construction ............... 56-61
ANNEX 2    Civil Works Completion .......................... ......... 62-64
ANNEX 3    Collection Performance on NHA ZIP and Serviced Sites ...... 65-66
ANNEX 4    ULFP Disbursement According to Geographic Area ............ 67
ANNEX 5    ULFP Financial Performance ............. .................. 68
ANNEX 6    NHA Cost Allocation on ZIP and Serviced Sites ............. 69-70
ANNEX 7    NHA Affordability of Residential Lots (ZIP and SS) ........ 71-74



- 18 -
URBAN III PCR
I. CQDITIONS LEING- TO TE   E PROJECT
1.01 The First tJrban Development Project (Urban I, Loan No. 1272 T-1282-1-PH)
in the Philippines was approved in May 1976 and concentrated mainly upon
the improvement of the Tondo Foreshore slum area and first phase
development of the adjacent 400 ha. Dagat-Dagatan sites and services
project in Manila.
1.02 The Second Urban Development Project (Urban II, Loan No. 1647-PH) was
approved in April 1979. Urban II assisted establishment of the national
Slum  Improvement  and    Resettlement  (SIR)  program  through  local
governments in the key regional centers of Davao City, Cagayan de Oro,
and Cebu City as well as completion of the Dagat-Dagatan project in
Manila. Project Completion Reports (PCRs) concerning both of these
projects are on file with the Bank.
1.03  The Third Urban Development Project  (Urban III,  Loan No.  1821-PH),
approved in June 02, 19CO the subject of this report, continued
assistance  to  the  Philippine  government  in  developing  affordable
solutions to problems of poverty, shelter, and environmental sanitation
in the Metro Manila Area (MMA).  Specifically, the project's objectives
as stated in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, page 14) were to:
a. provide assistance to the first three year phase of two complementary
Metro-wide slum improvement programs designed to upgrade all depressed
areas in the MMA;
b. provide new serviced land for settlement by low income families in
suitable locations at the urban fringe;
c. promote employment and expand productivity of the urban poor through
integrated programs involving marketing, technical assistance, credit,
land and services to existing and new small enterprises; and
d. strengthen the abilities of the Metro Manila Commission (MMC) and
local governments to plan, develop and finance public works and
services.
1.04  It was estimated in 1977 that 35% of the MMA population or 2.1 million
people were living below the poverty line of P1,877 per person per year.
The great majority of this population resides in hundreds of slum and
squatter communities throughout the 4 cities and 13 municipalities which
make up Metro Manila.
1.05 While the Urban I and II projects focused on upgrading of a few very
large slum areas such as Tondo, the Urban III project sought to provide
basic services and livelihood opportunities on a wider basis throughout
the MNA. Under the first two projects provision of new serviced sites
was undertaken solely by government; under Urban III private sector
participation was envisioned.



- 19 -
1.06  In addition, a major goal of Urban I.I was to develop the governance
capabilities of the Metro Manila Commission. Established in November
1975, MMC was headed by a Governor (t0en Mrs. Marcos) and Vice-Governor
with Commissioners for planning, finance and operations.  MMC received
20% of local revenues from 17 local governments within its purview and
undertook central reorganization of basic public services  including
police and fire protection, garbage disposal, traffic management, and
public hospitals.
1.07  By 1980, compilation of the Capital Investment Folio (CIF) for the MMA
had been completed with the then Ministry of Public Works (now DPWH) as
the lead agency.  In consultation with MMC, the Ministry of Budget and
other sectoral agencies, the CIF rationalized all major investments in
the MMA for the three year period of 1980-1983. Urban II supported the
first 3 year investment plan and the CIF was expected to become an
integral part of MMC's  planning and budgeting process through which
funding for a broad range of essential services could be channelled in a
balanced program.
II.   THE PROJECT
2.01  Following from the first two urban projects and incorporating priorities
established in the CIF, Urban III comprised five interrelated project
components and a multipurpose technical assistance input (SAR, pp. 15-
16):
a. Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP) : (S43.3m)
Provision through the National Housing Authority (NHA) of tenure,
basic services, and home improvement loans in 13 sites to benefit
about 160,000 low income people over a 3 year period.
b. Metro Manila Infrastructure. Utilities, and Engineering Program
(MMINUTE) * (S29.2)
Improvement by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) of
basic services in slum areas including drainage, sanitation, water
supply and streets in low income communities suffering from bad
environmental conditions.   Improvements were to be restricted to
existing public rights-of-way and would not include provision of
tenure or movement of existing plots or buildings. As such, it could
proceed more quickly than ZIP and reach more people, but it would
provide lower benefits per household than ZIP.   It is expected to
benefit about 300,000 low income people.
c. Sites and Services : (S23.8)
Provision by NHA and private developers of about 6,140 new serviced
plots together with home improvement loans and commercial lots on 79
hectares in sites at the fringe of the MMA.



- 20 -
d. Livelihood : (S11.4m)
A comprehensive effort of the then Technology Resource Center (TRC) of
MHS to increase employment and productivity of low income residents in
or close to ZIP and VNINUTE sites with assistance in marketing,
management, buildings, equipment, small amounts of working capital,
land and services, and manpower training.
e. Solid Wastes Management (SWIP) : (S5.0m)
Provision through the Environmental Sanitation Center (ESC) of MMC of
equipment for drain cleaning and door-to-door collection of household
wate in congested low income areas, support for MMC's waste recycling
program, and improvement of waste collection from public markets. The
SWIP component was expected to reach about 120,000 families or about
48% of the total MMA households which lacked waste collection
services.
f. Technical Assistance (TA) : (S7.3m)
Assistance to: (i) MMC and local governments to improve organizational
structures, administrative and financial systems, and coordination in
investment planning; (ii) DPWH, NEDA, and the then Ministry of Human
Settlements to extend the CIF planning effort to selected regional
cities and to conduct a review of the construction industry; (iii)
DPWH to continue implementation of the NMA traffic management scheme
(TEAM); and (iv)  DPWH, NEDA, and MHS for feasibility studies and
preliminary engineering for the Regional Cities Development Project
(RCDP/Urban IV).
2.02 Total project cost was estimated at $120 million at A, aisal in
February, 1980 (see Figure IV.1).   The Bank loan of $72 million to
government was for a term of 20 years including a 5-year grace period at
an interest rate of 8.25% and a commitment charge of 3/4 of 1%.
2.03  Onlending terms and the original GOP counterpart financing plan are shown
in Figure _. The Urban III loan was signed on June 2, 1980.
III. MAJOR RESULTS
3.01 Urban III was undertaken during a unique period of Philippine history.
This complicated and innovative project was substantially affected by
a dismaying array of factors including deterioration of worldwide and
local economic conditions, eventual People's Power Revolution, acute
budgetary and building materials shortages, and the dismantling and/or
reorganization of government agencies involved in the project. In short,
perhaps the most remarkable result of the project is that it was
completed at all. Urban III succeeded under very difficult circumstances
in making some dramatic improvements in the living conditions of low



- 21 -
income 1K  residents and this accomplishment  is a tribute  to the
determined efforts of involved government implementors.
A. Physical Ioarovements
3.02 The NIIINUTE component far exceeded SAR projections of benefits due
largely to the depreciation of the peso which similarly 'benefitted"
other components. DPWH estimates that about 1.4 million persons, almost
19% of the MM  population, are served by the more than 153 kms. of
improved roads, 203 barangay standpipes, 41 barangay sanitation
facilities and other water and sewerage related projects constructed by
IQlINUTE. In addition, P31.1 m worth of maintenance equipment and related
physical plant was acquired and/or constructed under this component.
3.03  The ZIP component was also expanded from 13 sites identified at Appraisal
to 31 sites at completion. The ZIP component benefits more than 57,000
households including renters and sharers, or in excess of 350,000
individuals.
3.04  The  SWIP  component  eventually  benefitted  about  110,000  families
throughout the OMlA through the acquisition of 16 garbage trucks and 140
refuse containers, and construction of a maintenance depot.  Once the
SWIP system was established and its operational capacity validated, the
Government of Japan donated-kn additional 116 refuse collection vehicles
to tAKC greatly expanding collection capabilities.
B. Increase in Housing Stock
3.05  NHA's sites and services projects expanded by 88% over SAR projections to
include full development of 6,002 lots at Pasig and 198 lots at Cupang.
At least 50,000 individuals are expected to eventually occupy these new
lots.
3.06  The Private Sites and Services Project Office (PSSPO), now a unit of the
National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC) of the Philippines, is
supervising construction of 4,063 new serviced lots, some with core
housing, a 43% increase over Appraisal estimates. Taken together, the
10,263 new serviced lots developed by PSSPO and NHA under Urban III will
provide secure, environmentally sound, affordable homesites for at least
85,000 individuals.
C. Emplqyment and Assistance To Small Businesses
3.07  Through its Urban Livelihood Financing Program (ULFP), the Technology and
Livelihood Resource Center (TLRC, formerly, TRC) has cumulatively
disbursed P16'.8m to 2,790 micro, small, and medium-scale enterprises
benefitting 30,541 individuals in and around ZIP sites in the IMAM. Of
the total benefitted, TLRC estimates that the ULFP generated 28,471 jobs
at a cost of about $250 per new job or only 38% of the $657 SAR estimate.
With over P110 million in equity, the ULFP is fairly characterized as the
first generally successful livelihood program to be implemented under
any of the Urban loans to the Philippines.
1ii           *'t neeeiM as 't. Lo uha'rtgev~~tC1e  kJ+i4es Lees'. dnvoiegt o  C
. ~ ~~~~~~~ fcI)ArJA..e                           o&Pt Conces6.oiae  41nur,ce



- 22 -
D. Institutional Strengthening
3.08  A total of $13.56 m was spent under the project for a variety of studies,
forward planning for Urban IV, technical assistance, operations of the
MCB, and hard and software to improve MMC's management capabilities.
3.09  The Comprehensive Real Property Tax Enhancement Program (CORTEP) was
implemented by MKC's finance office and 11 of the 17 MMA local government
units.   About 65,000 additioral real property units (RPUs) have been
"discoveredw in these localities and about 55% have been assessed
resulting in a projected real estate tax revenue increase of at least P67
m annually. Computerization of assessor's and treasurer's offices in the
involved local governments is still underway.
3.10  A variety  of other  studies  were  also  executed under  the project
including:   a)  MMC management review (1980); b)  preliminary physical
planning for the CIF (1981);  c)  the second CIF study (1982-84);  d)
financial systems study of MKC (1982); e) Urban land management study
of the MMA (1984); and f) the Metro Manila Physical Planning Surveys
(MMAPS) which established a computer-aided mapping process for the MMA.
IV. PROJECT COSTS
4.01 Figure IV.1 shows project costs totalling P1.8 billion as of the loan
closing date on June 30, 1988. Figure IV.2 shows dollar drawdowns per
agency under the loan. The loan was totally restructured in 1985, and
the PSSP and MKINUTE components revised further in August 1986.   The
continuing depreciation of thc) peso throughout the project cycle makes
any relevant comparison of final peso costs with previous projections
virtually impossible.
4.02  The total dollar equivalent project cost in Sept. 1985 was estimated at
$113.7 m, while the final estimated dollar equivalent is *eAo.t p or a 62,
difference of only *$ , m. Variance in total peso cost from Sept. 1985
when the project was formally restructured, to July 1988, on the other
hand, is about P245 million or a 16x difference
4.03  Dollar drawdowns under the loan (Figure IV.2) reached 95% of the $71m
revised  allocation.    Only NEDA  drawdowns  for  technical  assistance
(RCDP/Urban IV preparation) exceeded the revised allocation due to
recalculation of the dollar equivalent after loan restructuring. Despite
the fact that the MKINUTE, ZIP, and sites and services components were
all greatly expanded in 1985, none of the agencies involved was able to
fully utilize their dollar allocations, though MMINUTE reached over 99%.
The balance of $3.89m was cancelled effective July 15, 1988.



- 23 -
PlOJICTS COSTS
5311 111 (Loll 1621-?!)
'                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~FIqIJAC  iV.!
Coet /a (ialadlils              September           levilsoas :1961
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  ................................ ..... ................ ............................... ..... ........ .... ...... ....... ............ .
all comtim eciaa)            TO       tal   leatrct  Aug. 1186
Componeut                          35*1~~~~a; I -   al         Is$1      1                 IU aS$                     p I
_ ..............................................................._._ ........ _whf ..
SOulL !KPROYIIUt P3O6 Mu   (Il)                   43.2t        320.0        35.66   331.90                   :       43.748       635.450
......... ............... ............ ...................... ....................... ............................................  ................. .. ..................
Laud.                                          14.66         110.0       13.14   111.50                    :       18.970       249.593
lfrastrnetere                                  15.64         111.0       14.35   192.50                            19.100       324.064
Service ConaectiomiCore Qnlts                   6.76          65.0        0.61      8.60                   :lmcluded is infrastructure
Buildine  materials loans                        1.22          1.0        0.43      5.30                   :        0.559         t.t31
Counity facilities                               1.62         12.0        0.36    10.30                    :Imcluded  n infrstnrueture
Teckiceal Assistance                             0.95          1.0        1.95    20.50                    :        1.664        12.634
Destgn aid Supervision                          6.00           0.0        3.16    35.00                    :        3.177        38.504
1PIO&Af                                          0.00          0.0        0.00      0.00                            0.371         7.805
NITI   EAPILA IIP91STIUCTOlI
IMITIIItS  IGIEIIJIIG (131307f)                   29.23        216.0       21.34   341.80            341.80          20.410       345.100
......... ............... .. ... ............. ..................... ............................... ................................................. .. ..... ......................
Clil Vorks                                     25.32         167.0       14.66   247.10            253.10          14.0W0       250.300
Topographical surveys                            0.S5          5.0        0.33      6.60             0.00           0.000         0.000
Deslit/Supervision (TA)                          0.66          6.0        1.63    11.00             11.00       .   1.6w         11.600
laintenance equlpmeat                            2.48         16.0        1.70    20.60             20.60 :         1.940        24.500
(Iduinistratlon)                                0.00           0.0        1.63    21.60             21.60 :         1.430        29.300
(Olor equipment/isce.)                         0.00           0.0        1.39    22.90             22.90 :         1.390        23.400
..-.-.---   ---.------------.--.---   ---.---..-..--......--...-..--....-..........-.-..-...-.-.-....--------.-....-.-.-..   ......
SITES AID SKIVICh                                 23.76        176.0       32.69   498.60                    :       29.799       433.264
hblic (HA)                                        15.95        116.0       21.79   3O1.10O                           19.989       248.291
Land (Copsa"  *sod  PaoIo)                      2.56          19.0        4.17     47.90                   :        4.217        46.661
Site preparation, infrastruesure,
service connection/core units                 8.78          65.0       12.85   193.60                    :      13.980        176.842
Butlding materlals loans                        2.98          22.0        1.35    24.90                    !I:cluded in infrastructure
Conuifty facilities                              1.35         10.0        1.11    20.60                    :Included in infrastructure
Technical lssistance                            0.28           2.0        0.80      6.20                            0.795         6.768
Design and Supervision                          0.00           0.0        0.91    13.00                             0.991        15.826
...  ...................................................... .. . ... .......... ..................... ....... .......... . ........... ......
Private (PSSP)                                     7.81         56.0       10.90   190.40            189.7            9.510 %    1".9qo
.. .. .. . ................... .. .. ........ . .. ... .. ....... .......... .. ... ...... ........ ........................
1.  Construction Loans                             7.81         58.0        10.90   190.40            96.92
(L&nd)                                        0.00           0.0        1.50    23.10             14.93          2.010         32.200
Off-site Infrastructure and
comuanity facilities                        1.86          14.0        0.81    14.00              8.59          0.890         18.200
Building laterial Ioans                       2.97          22.0        1.14    21.20              3.33           0.050         1.500
Constraction lost to developer (351)          2.10          20.0        2.21    38.90             11.69           2.830        54.300
Design/Swpervision/T                          0.26           2.0        0.58      9.50             6.19           1.040        20.280
(Developer overbeads/sales costs)             0.06           0.0        1.10    31.50              6.33          1.030         21.100
(Core auits - PSSP)                           0.00           0.0        1.60    29.60             24.13          0.720         14;050
(Coopleted anits - BOC)                       0.00           0.0        0.61    11.30              11.2          0.540         11.200
(1551 Idminis:ration) (uS)                    0.00           0 0        0.67    11.30              3.73          0.700         12.140
B.  PSSB Takeouts                                   -                                                  35.9
r   Shelter Loas Preparatio/boo cC                -             -            -          -            10.89         ICLUED    NCwNDJ
V I1A Takeouts                                      -            -             -               -       46.12           -
j1 N"D  YO ai  5tuv 66PmmwL.Y



- 24 -
?10J1CTh tOS?S
M3113 III (LolN  1821-PR)
Fiqe5- Na. Pmca.
&                          I                     C
Origh1l ?otal                  1l1S              PSP/AlKIT:
Coat /I (aludild               Septkbr             leyeous                   1988
all coatiuenieuts)          Total u hestret        Aug. 136
Coapolent                                     USSR          p            U 5$ a    p I                 I        M  I           P I
............................................. .........  ..................
SOLID vIISJ  UiU6tAfll (SlIP)                    5.12          37.0        2.44    40.10                           2.478       4I.330
...... .......... ......... ................................ ............. .................. .............. ---................. .... ....... ...... ............. ..... .......... . I---- ---------
Land                                           0. fs          5.0       0.00      0.10                           0.000         0.00O
Pilot stemuiot prosras                        0695            7.0        0.42     '.10                           0.420         3.147
tekicles and iteipast                          2.83         21.0         1.13    11.50                           1.524        29.470
TUtrataisa/etudies                             0.56           4.0        0.03     1.C0                           0.090         1.856
itslhI                                        0.28          2.0       0.00      0.00                                 Included
hsdls/m ervis ld o.21                                      2.0        0.11     1.60                                 Included
(Isiteuaace depot)                             0.00           0.0        0.58    10.10                           0.224        3. %O
(Iduiistratios) (121)                          0.00           0.0        0.22     3.10                           0.220         4.511
_............................................................. .... ..... . ................................. ... ..... .... .... .... ..............
sImlilhOOD                                       11.37         84.0       10.48   168.10                   :       0.I         179.104
-------------;---------. .. . ................... . ........ .................... . .... ...... . ...........   -
lbi-luhdstrial park                             2.64         21.0        0.00      0.00                          0.000         0.000
luvestut                                        4.34         32.0        5.l5    140.00                          6.850       156.006
I etOitv lavestaunts                            3.52         26.0   ---- licluded ----                       .  (0.813)       (9.214)
* Loam  To IadlUidual lterprises             'IU            11      ---- licluded ----                          (5.4S 5)    (100 cOO)
t SWl/eleuldiug hll loa      s)                0.12          6.0   ---- included  ---:                         (2.562)      (46.792)
Stmdiea/trallilu/1A                             4.19         31.0        0.36      6.30                          0.380         6.722
Studies/trainlng                              3.18         28.0        0.00     0.00                                  Iicluded
D.sie/Iuporvisliou/I                          0.41          3.0        0.00     0.00                                  Included
(Ituliemt)                                      0.00          0.0        0.06     1.00                           0.060         1.204
(Idullistration)                                0.00          0.0        1.13    20.80                           0.908        15.872
.. ... .. ..... .... ..... .......... ...................................................
TICIIICIL ISSISTUICI/lAIII16                      7.35         55.0       11.04   119.30                          11.430       133.741
o1f cooustruotion study 4  1IIU W               1.03          8.0        2.48    19,00                           2.480        19. 900
IEC flsunce uad mamuasget                       1.49         11.0        3.31    49;.0                           3.510        62.050
Iiaucia. studies                              0.00          0.0        1.49    15.00                          (E.390)      (18.430)
(Tax uappln)                                  0.00          0.0        1.80    33.70                          (2.120)      (43.621)
7111 trnffic manageint                          0.22          2.0        0.39      3.10                          0.390         3.100
MDI grbs 11 preparation (ICDP)                  4.55         34.0        4.12    36.20                           4.350        38.436
leR  studies added                              0.00          0.0        0.1      10.50                          0.700        10.260
Orbas I preparatioa                           0.00          0.0        0.41     4.40                          (0.410)       (4.400)
EPPS (frog 1IlUTE)                            0.00          0.0        0.33     6.10                          (0.290)       (5.860)
EIAIAOmI    COOIDIIANIOI BloiD (BCD)          unkown       unknown      unknown  onkown                    :        2.130        31.000
IOTA I t..                        120.00        188.0      113.65  1560.00 MO.I90                             1,504,691
. .......  . .... ... ...... ................................................... ... .... ... .... ......... ................. ..... ........ . .....o
I original cost                                    1001         100l         951 1.76                             Ioot         :2037"
S total revised cost                               105l                     100l                                  104%          11G2.
-.............   ................ ; ................................................................................................



- 25 -
FI. JY. 2
URBAN III tLOANO.- 1821- PR)
sIrnm OF -LOJLAN ADRW 1. AnENCY.
AS OF JULY 31, 198
ORIGINAL.        REYRSEG           ltOT,L             2 of"                OF
AGENCY     ALLOCATION      ALLOrATION"        DRAINM            A ATION             ALOCTION
WMIA         31.260         31.670            9.9w -31                               2.167
IilC          4.740.          5.f0             4.920- B1:                             0.950
PoSp          4.M             4.*-             4.430       .. *11                     0.52
DPMI         19.690         .17.680            1V,43              9                  0.137
KEDA          4.55           4.120             4.35              1061              (  @.2337
TIRC          6.970           h.970            6.466              931          .      0.04
STOAL        72.000         71.000            67.103              95K                 3.897
.ci ve)r*Ao   chie, ro PeVofioon i6   Ctodecuj    epe&ewrop-s
On <3) sFL             aCa (ve c    C         ereek c               w  7' .e
ol    4&                              #Aa  (9*Br1ei-I t6w6



- 26 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overview
5.01 The Urban I and II projects, PCRs for which are on file with the Bank,
were basically undertaken by a single GOP implementing agency, the
National Housing Authority (NHA).   By contrast, Urban III explicitly
sought to widen the range of benefits provided to the urban poor through
coordinated efforts of a variety of government agencies. Provision of
shelter with tenure was to be complemented by improvement of basic
infrastructure and services as well as generation of livelihood
opportunities under the overall HMC umbrella.
5.02 Due to the peso's depreciation throughout the project implementation
period (from 7.5:1 at Appraisal to 21:1 at closing), almost all
"production' targets established at Appraisal were greatly exceeded as
previously noted. It is also important , however, to examine progress
made toward the integrated urban development model which formed the
conceptual heart of Urban III.   Once validated in the MMA,  it was
believed  that  this  model  could  be  applied,   with  appropriate
modifications, in other major Philippine urban centers.  In fact,  the
Urban IV/Regional Cities Development Project (RCDP, Loan 2257-PH) is
currently attempting to implement a similar package of physical
improvements,   shelter,   and   improvements   in   local   government
administration and revenue collection in four major regional centers in
the Visayas and Mindanao.
5.03 Figure V.1 shows actual implementation versus Appraisal projections with
key environmental factors which effected not only Urban III but the
entire  country.    As  in  the  first  two  urban  projects,  the  SAR
implementation schedule was optimistic particularly considering that
MNINUTE, the private sites and services component, and the livelihood
component were all brand new initiatives, the latter two of which were to
be undertaken by fledgling government organizations. Optimistic or not,
the dramatic economic and political events which unfolded brought
implementation of almost all government projects to a virtual standstill
by 1984. As the peso depreciated inflation skyrocketed cresting at an
annual rate in excess of 50% in 1984, the original closing date of the
loan.
5.04 Government regulations (mainly PD 1594) had no provisions to deal with
such unprecedented inflation and contracts for works throughout the
country were halted or abandoned. The entire project was restructured by
September of 1985 with the PSSP and MHINUTE components undergoing further
revisions 11 months later (see fig. V.1).  Closing dates for the loan
were extended three times to December 31, 1987. Disbursements were
finally completed in July, 1988, following the standard 6 month grace
period.   By that time, as shown in fig. V.2, 95% of the revised loan
amount had been disbursed; the balance was cancelled effective July 15,
1988.



- 27 -
Loan 1121 - PR'
IWLEHENATIU KEIKEU                                     Table  V.1
-                        : ~~~~~~~~19t@    1979    m:   1 981 'g "1:   1#2  '        :        l e,815  1s"    1"   '1               "      "
'                a :   ~year  1 vear 2   year 3: yr 4: yar       u year   u year 7    year 6
*        *    -     7*s*  a**   ja,-    --_-.-_-_
prepration    appraisal      effectivity                     :
PUPRATION
$A   A t                                                                      C
:  juxly:  may  :fb  hoe        :         :rulimal:fMrst   : seon:   final:                   di   re-
CUNPNENTS             :        :         :clsi:g  e tessiu estensiom  extension  *r
:ate          i clouele    loos: c ing    cer   te
I NIWTE                      :         :         -                         'ate                   : date   date'
I               * l
3 SITES IS *  ICES  '        ,                           a        a ,  ,                      8 *  *
a Public/         I                                         I 
. '  '  .  _        _   _   _ _ _ _                                 _          *#-~~~~~~~~~jeEC nrzmA
b Prinate/PSSP    :        ::                                      ,     :         :        :        :        :  
4 LIVELI ::::    
hi:                     :        :         :        :        :        :        :         :        :        :
3 SKID am           :        :         :-                                           
a                 :AbEifI  :         :                          :        :         :-1
6 TECHIIIC^L a   :
f irst budget                                          ,r '                                #^FA           dO4
WMrivaeL               rnlou npected :o   fist budget rnlcau nrec
E   LVE EACTINDO                        o :ocI nlKtlen
nirLWAION                       :                       o  f trot pno flu t fro* P 7.34 9 .. 
o  national election ,    ..  ....... 
o  bar ngay ul ctim
:        :inuauuaauuaauaia Philippuin  coaic crisisj
o  u cond pf   t fat P It
:                                  :                           :o Aquino assusint third pn   float P 14
: X    wkitAg fttL & 9  estblished 1
_        ~    ~~ building utbrials sbortagc       |
L   I  Ib  u    *cUon   I
It    o  fliftb pso flo t P 20!
:                 :        : IIo urban III loan  rnhping
I        I        I        I        I        I0  nal clKtienp            pnp r
,... frheu                                       :    : a nolutio   1m govtrn   t
L E 11 E I D i              CAj ief   46a#w  Wit                                                    o :s--      uspension
N3EM  le et  :oF1)                                                                 of i b r-itmg
o0 plebiscite
Appratul ntinnto                                                                   nn cons.itution
o   runate,co,ngrn      I
-ktul                          '                                                             dKtUe
EVENTDAFFECTI: :                                        : oaelcin  :      :        a        a         a0IN 
*0  I                                I
IWLEEUThTIIIU  a  a  *  a  firstpeuufloatfraeP755-lKt9



- 28 -
5.05  The extraordinary events of the early and mid-1980s in the Philippines
make a conventional analysis of Urban III's implementation difficult.
Since  the  entire  project  was  restructured  in  1985,  few  if  any
quantifiable comparisons to the SAR are useful. Hence, the analysis in
this section will be largely of a qualitative nature,  focusing on
implamentation mechanics and experiences with broader relevance.
B. Z I P
5.06  In contrast to start-up delays suffered in Urban I and II, the ZIP
component of Urban III began very well.   At Appraisal,  7 sites had
already been acquired by NHA with physical works underway on 4 of these.
Very quickly, however, a variety of problems conspired to delay ZIP.
Readers of previous PCRs will find the following litany familiar.
5.07  A number of ZIP sites were extremely difficult with population densities
up to 2,000 per hectare.    Surveys were  impeded by structures  and
uncooperative community members.  Despite NHA's huge project in Tondo,
many slum communities in the MMA were suspicious of the government's
projects especially where reblocking was involved.
5.08  NHA's supply of experienced staff was quickly exhausted.  In 1980 all of
the first three Bank-assisted urban projects in the Philippines were
underway, and preparation of Urban IV had also begun.   In most cases,
local governments could not or did not supply supplemental staff to the
District Offices.
5.09  Communications between the District and field offices and the ZIP program
office at NHA were not good. Simple logistical problems, including lack
of Lelephones and service vehicles, combined with the highly centralized
NHA management system to   produce widespread delays  in design and
construction.
5.10  As in previous projects, releases of government counterpart funds were
delayed by the Ministry of Budget in direct contravention of loan
covenants.  MHS established in the late '70s the BLISS housing program
which competed with and bled off funds intended for NHA. Attempts by MHS
to severely curtail NHA's corporate powers diverted the attention of
senior management as did problems in Tondo and Dagat-Dagatai..
5.11  Familiar problems 'n interagency coordination particularly with DPWH and
the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage System (MWSS) persisted.   The MCB
eventually became a fairly effective forum for attaining required
interagency cooperation but the early years of the project were plagued
by disagreements on standards, responsibilities and priorities.
5.12  Familiar  delays  in land acquisition  through  judicial  expropriation
persisted. Enactment by Presidential fiat of an "Urban Land Reform Law"
which enabled identification of Areas for Priority Development (APDs)
and, supposedly, fixed just compensation actually accomplished little.
Judicial proceedings continued to move at a snail's pace forcing NRA in
many cases to negotiate with owners at prices much higher than originally



-29-
F,,.E V.-  2
URBAN  III DISBURSEMENTS (ANNUAL)
14 
15
10 .
Year      'ge 1t8  1981   1982   19B3   lfn84   s 98S   19865  1987   1988
Pei Cent   4.-4%   10.3-%  12.7%. 1552-X  8E18%  14.0X   7.2X   8.3Y. 22.IY.
Cumu l ative  1 .4Y. 11 .7%  24 .4%  39 . 6-  40. 4%  62. 4X  69* 6X  77 .9-/% {0X  
*    * 0%



- 30 -
assumed. As land costs rose, standards of development dropped causing
widespread redesign and further delays.
*       5.13  Eighteen additional sites were added to the ZIP compunent in 1985 when
the loan was restructured.   Host of these sites were  still under
construction at loan closing but will be finished by the end of 1988
*              using local funds (see Annex 1 and 1-A).
5.14 Eventually, all of these problems were resolved and despite extraordinary
external events, the ZIP component made a major impact in the MMA.
C. MMINUTE
5.15 The original SAR implementation schedule for the MMINUTE component called
for design and completion of all projects in 3 years starting in 1980,
undoubtedly the most optimistic of all Appraisal projections.   The
MMINUTE concept of introducing basic infrastructure along existing
rights-of-way without attempting to regularize tenure was deceptively
simple.   In fact, this component was immediately faced with a whole
variety of land access and community relations problems not dissimilar to
those encountered in ZIP.
5.16  Actual implementation of MMINUTE projects began only in 1981.   Major
technical constraints which delayed design and construction were:
a. Lack of reference maps for underground utilities in project sites.
b. Lack of as-built plans for existing drainage structures.
c. Heavily  silted  main  drainage  outfallr   causing  deferment  or
cancellation of some projects.
d. Right-of-way (ROW) problems: some proposed and existing drainage
outfalls pass through private properties where owners oftentimes
refused to give clearances. Some agreed during design preparation but
refused later on during project implementation.
e. Slow internal approval of plans and estimates and award of contracts
due to centralization within DPWH.
f. Lack of interagency coordination and/or duplication of effort.   In
several projects, for instance, it was discovered that MWSS was also
preparing to provide water systems identified by MMINUTE.
g. Infeasible project components, particularly communal septic tanks
(CSTs). At Appraisal 86 CSTs were programmed but only 1 was actually
built by MMINUTE due to lack of water and individual toilets among
beneficiaries, lack of sites, refusal of beneficiaries to repay costs,
etc.
5.17 The MMINUTE staff showed admirable flexibility in adapting to the
numerous changes required once the project was underway. In addition to



- 31 -
overcoming numerous technical obstacles, the MMINUTE Project Management
Office (PMO) developed a remarkable capacity for community relations
work, an activity not normally associated with the infrastructure
programs of DPWH.   As currently organized the PMO is a complete unit
capable  of  planning,  designing,  preparing  contracts,  supervising
construction and handling community relations works as well as
administration and finance. Towards the last year of implementation, the
newly elected mayors in Metro Manila felt the impact of MMINUTE projects
in their localities prompting them to request additional MMINUTE services
primaiily directed towards "pockets of urban poverty in their respective
areas but with greater participation.   Likewise,  quite a number of
outlying areas within the fringes of Metro Manila requested for similar
MMINUTE services.  With this in view, MMINUTE has already prepared a
second phase program called MKINUTE II-FRINGE which shall cover Metro
Manila and other outlying areas within a 50 km. range from Manila. The
second phase would, however, be more decentralized in approach giving
fuller participation of Local Governments in planning, financing and
implementation. The substantial capacity of the MMINUTE-PMO is clearly
being preserved and utilized in the project preparations for the second
phase of the program.
D. Livelihood
5.18  Urban I and II both  included livelihood compor-ents.  A variety of
institutional arrangements were attempted with government agencies and
bureaus as well as with private banks, but all failed. NHA was left to
create livelihood programs and institutional capabilities on its own.
While notably successful in some respects, particularly employment
generation, NHA's livelihood program never achieved financial viability
with cost recovery rates generally below 40%.
5.19  Urban III recognized that livelihood and employment generation programs
require distinct management and technical expertise. Hence. the Urban III
livelihood program to complement the ZIP and MMINUTE components was
undertaken by the Technology and Livelihood Resource Center (TLRC),
formerly attached to MHS and now under the supervision of the Office of
the President, Malacanang.
5.20  In 1980, TLRC organized the Urban Livelihood Financing Program (ULFP)
Office to administer the Urban III livelihood component.  A variety of
sub-projects were developed in support of ZIP and MMINUTE activities,
including:
a. three production centers;
b. assistance to 15 existing credit unions in ZIP sites
c. technical and financial assistance to 450 micro-enterprises in
coordination with Philippine Business for Social Progress (PBSP), an
NGO; and,



- 32 -
d. a sub-contracting "brokerage' program through which PBS' matches large
firms with micro-enterprises in project sites including technical
assistance and financing.
5.21 In 1982, the ULFP introduced the Socialized Credit Scheme (SCS) which
provides group loans to project area residents. The SCS emphasizes the
Filipino value of pakikisama (literally, togetherness or camaraderie) by
'requiring group liability for loans as well as promoting the enhanced
potential for success deriving from cooperation within groups. The SCS
also provides training for group borrowers focusing on leadership,
organization,  and basic business administration.   SCS loan accounts
multiplied at an annual average rate of 125% from 1982 to 1985 and
constitute the majority of the 2790 accounts generated under the ULFP.
5.22 In 1986 new management in TLRC undertook streamlining of operations to
reduce operational/functional overlaps experienced in previous years.
Acquisition of vehicles and computerization in recent years have
increased TLRC's monitoring and assistance capabilities and reduced
processing time for loans. By 1987 the relatively small SCS loans were
being processed in, on average, one month while larger loans took two
months.
5.23 Although the UIFP was a fairly small component of Urban III, as
previously noted it is the first financially viable livelihood program
implemented in Bank-assisted urban projects and, for that matter, by GOP
in general.  It was implicitly assumed that the ULFP, by creating jobs
and income, would improve cost recovery in ZIP project aLeas. This
assumption remains unproven and might be a useful subject for specific
evaluative research.   It is now clear, however,  that with  focused
management and adequate logistics successful urban livelihood programs
can be implemented in the Philippines.
E. Sites and Services/New Units
5.24 The Public Component - at Appraisal it was assumed that NHA would
construct about 3,300 lots in the first phase of the Pasig sites and
services project, now known as Karangalan Village, under Urban III. As
a result of the peso's depreciation and restructuring of the loan, full
development of the site was undertaken producing 6,002 lots. An
additional 198 lots are also being developed at Cupang, bringing the
total to 6,200.
5.25 Karangalan Village was substantially completed in 1985 and 4,645 lots
were awarded through public raffling among prequalified applicants from
the MHA. The project constitutes NHA's first major new serviced sites
project in the MHA not devoted mainly to relocation, although two smaller
projects were previously completed in Davao (Urban II) and Cagayan de Oro
(Urban II and IV). Given the enormous apparent demand for new serviced
sites, it was expected that the sites would be rapidly occupied by new
owners constructing their homes through self help means.



- 33 -
5.26  Such has not exactly been the case.  By mid-1988 only 687 (15%) of the
4,464 disposed lots were occupied at Karangalan almost 3 years after the
initial raffling of lots in 1985. A similar situation obtains in Cagayan
where disposition of lots also began in 1985 but occupancy to date is
about one third. The Davao serviced sites project which was raffled in
Dec. 1984, by contrast, is almost fully occupied although about 20% of
the occupants are illegal.
5.27  One key constraint to occupation of Karangalar. Village lots is the
absence of individual titles. NHA has fully acquired title to all but
about 5 ha. of the 73.61 ha. site. Of the area owned by NHA, however, up
to 80C has not been individually subdivided. Major impediments are the
slow processing of the Bureau of Lands (BOL) for subdivision survey
;              approval and Register of Deeds for registration of titles.   NHA is
attempting to expedite processing in both cases and has now expanded
coverage of survey contracts to include RD action (e.g. issuance of
titles for takeout purposes).
5.28  Without  titles,  the  individual  owners  cannot  qualify  for mortgage
financing from NHMFC or elsewhere to construct their houses. However,
lack of titles is not a sufficient explanation since titles are also not
available in the almost fully occupied Davao New Matina project owing to
a continuing disagreement between NHA and the City Government regarding
acquisition costs of the site.  At the Kauswagan site in Cagayan, on the
other hand, titles have been available since the early '80s and occupancy
is still low.
5.29  NHA is undertaking  a detailed survey of Karangalar. Village awardees to
determine reasons for low occupancy rates. While survey results are not
yet available, two factors distinguish the Davao site from Karangalan and
Kauswagan.
5.30  First, building permits for awardees in the Davao project were processed
on a mass basis using 5 standard designs. The City government arranged
with both the City Building Official and the Register of Deeds to reduce
fees to the minimum and all paperwork was completed in house.
5.31  Second, a centrally located commercial lot in the Davao project was sold
in 1985 to Gawasnong Pagbalay, Inc. (GPI), a low cost building materials
supplier. With a ready supply of building materials on site, awardees
were spared the difficulty and expense of transporting supplies to the
site from their previous houses.  This is probably a major problem in
Karangalan Village where awardees are drawn from all over the MNA.
Provision of materials on site as well as simple house plans and mass
building permits would allow self-help builders to simply bring their
tools on weekends, purchase the materials they can afford and set to work
as was the case in Davao.
5.32 Pending further detailed study it is impossible to draw accurate
conclusions concerning this problem. However, if self-help construction
is not attractive to or impractical for awardees in serviced sites



- 34 -
projects, then the basic concept of this approach will require
reevaluation.
5.33  The Private Component - the private sites and services component of Urban
*III was not fully detailed at Appraisal. A 'unit to deal with sites and
servicesm (SAR, p. 31) was to be created within the Metropolitan Planning
Office of MHS. The untried concept of enlisting private developers to
produce low cost serviced sites was identified as one of the project's
major risks (SAR, p. 49).
5.34  At base, the Private Sites and Services Project (PSSP) component of Urban
III was a test run for the program approach now embodied in the Shelter
Sector Loan.   Clearly, government housing production alone could not
simultaneously satisfy backlog demand and meet new needs.   Based on
examples established in Urban I and II, the PSSP component sought to
mobilize private developers through a package containing the following
features:
a. Low Cost Development Financing - financing of at least 35% of
development cost at interest rates of 9% for the first 25% and 12% for
the residual amount, later altered to a flat 12%.
b. Mortgage Financing - purchase, through Pag-ibig and NHMFC, of
mortgages to be repaid by beneficiaries over 25 year terms.
c. Infrastructure Support - provision by PSSP as grants of off-site
infrastructure and community facilities.
5.35  The PSSI component did not start operatlons until July 1981, a full year
later than the SAR's very optimistic estimate. Private developers were
skeptical and the first PSSP project, Cielito Homes, was approved and
started only in May 1983. A second project was approved in November 1983
with construction starting in March 1984. Both projects immediately ran
afoul of the drastic environmental events previously noted. However, the
de la Costa I project became more successful, given the limited nature of
government involvement; while Cielito Homes became more complicated due
to its complex institutional arrangements;
5.36  As costs increased, standards were reduced causing a particular problem
in the Cielito Homes project which was planned to include "core' houses
and some which were virtually finished. PSSP eventually had to assume
almost total control of this project and the 'core" housing was
significantly scaled back.
5.37  Following the revolution and the abolition of MHS, PSSP was absorbed by
NHMFC. A third change in senior management was followed, in 1987, by
approval of 5 additional projects, including two in Cebu. The five new
projects are not programmed for completion until 1990. Loan financing
will cover about 35% of total development cost, which will be rolled over
as units are sold to enable full completion.



- 35 -
5.38  Annex 2 summarizes the status of unit production, completion,  sales,
takeouts and occupancy for the PSSP component. Cielito Homes and De la
Costa I, the 2 original projects are 93% and 100% complete respectively.
Units in De la Costa I have all been sold and taken out by NHMIFC and
others. Sales at Cielito are, for a variety of reasons, lagging and of
the 731 units sold only 22% (164) have been taken out by NHMFC.  All
other projects are in various stages of construction.
5.39  In addition, only 28% of the units completed and sold at Cielito are
occupied.  Unlike the Karangalan Village situation, this low occupancy
rate is due to a dispute between the developer and the landowner that is
delaying the documentation of the sale and mortgage documents and not to
the beneficiaries inability or unwillingness to complete core units on
their own. A settlement, however, is being finalized to solve this
problem and documentation and take-outs are projected to proceed rapidly
resulting to a higher occupancy rate. At De la Costa I, on the other
hand, 92% of the core units are now occupied by their owners. This
project was developed by Freedom to Build, Inc., an organization which
began as a low cost building materials supplier similar to the group
operating in the New Matina sites and services project in Davao. The high
occupancy rate at De la Costa I seems to support the argument that self-
help construction/completion of units in low cost subdivisions can be
greatly expedited by the presence on site of materials suppliers who also
provide technical assistance.
5.40  In  sum,  the  PSSP  Office  and  staff  must  be  commended  for  their
perseverance in operationalizing this experimental component of Urban
III. Given the very loose preparation of this component at Appraisal and
the extreme environmental events in recent Philippine history, the
experiment could easily have failed. Notwithstanding, the PSSP experience
could be classified a success, if only for the valuable lessons learned
from its implementation. These experiences and lessons derived from them
are indicative of the specific directions that should be taken in future
urban lending programs of this kind.
F. Solid Waste Inmrovement Program (SWIP)
5.41  The SWIP component originally included a garbage recycling project and a
drain cleaning system for the MMA. The recycling project was found to be
impractical and the drain cleaning item extraneous to SWIP's main focus,
and both were dropped.
5.42  Due to a variety of staffing and management problems and a lack of
familiarity with international bidding and procurement procedures,
acquisition of the SWIP garbage collection equipment was delayed. Full
scale operations were achieved only in 1987 when, in the second half of
the year, over 100,000 cubic meters were collected by 10 compactor trucks
and 6 arm roll trucks. Direct cost of collection by MMC averaged about
P20/cu.m. exclusive of maintenance costs which must be quantified before
any accurate comparison can be made to the P34/cu. m. currently charged
by private hauling contractors.



- 36 -
5.43 In sum, the SWIP component did eventually achieve its main goal of
acquiring garbage disposal equipment. Efficiency of operations remains
to be evaluated as does MMC's role in solid waste management throughout
the MMA.
G. Tax Mapping
5.44 The Comprehensive Real Property Tax Enhancement Program (CORPTEP) was
formalized by Memo of Agreement between MMC and the Department of Finance
on December 15, 1986. This component was a late addition to Urban III
made possible by availability of funds under the loan. CORPTEP sought to
computerize tax mapping and real property valuation systems in 11 cities
and municipalities in the MMA involved in the ZIP and MMINUTE components.
Increases in real estate tax revenues resulting from CORPTEP are intended
to assist these municipalities in, among others, meeting their loan
repayment obligations under Urban III.
5.45 CORPTEP supplemented the ongoing Real Property Tax Assessment (RPTA)
program of the Office of Local Government Finance at DOF. The RPTA, with
funding from Urban IV and other sources, has been improving tax mapping,
assessments, and collections in various LGUs since the late 1970s. The
RPTA has been slow to materialize to the dismay of many LGUs who are very
anxious to increase local revenues.   CORPTEP, implemented in a little
over 2 years at a cost of about P43m, is expected to generate P67m in
increased annual real estate tax collections assuming only a 50%
efficiency rate. This component of Urban III is without parallel in any
other past or present urban project in terms of immediate generation of
revenues at the local government level. Total costs will be recovered in
less than one year even with only 5C% collection efficiency. Hence, even
with the continuing uncertainty regarding MMC's role with local
governments, it is clear that a much wider implementation of the CORPTEP
approach in cities and municipalities throughout the country should be
accorded a very high priority.
H. Summary
5.45  Annex 2 summarizes completion of civil and other works at the time of
loan closing in June 1988. All components were expected to be complete
by the end of 1988 with the exception of the additional PSSP projects.
Overall weighted project completion as of June 1988 was 92%.
VI.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A. Overview
4.01 The Urban III SAR contains a variety of ill-founded assumptions regarding
the project.  Primary among these was the assumption that ZIP projects
were to be constructed by NHA and turned over to local governments for
maintenance, collections, and repayment of subsidiary loans.   Despite
strong objections from NHA at Appraisal that this arrangement wc.ld never
work and that local governments would reject their respective obligations



- 37 -
(as they eventually did), Bank staff at appraisal insisted on maintaining
this unrealistic arrangement. 1/
6.02  The initial system for availing of loan funds was also inadequate.  NHA,
DPWH, MMC, TLRC, MHS, PSSP, and NEDA were all expected to independently
submit applications for reimbursement to the Bank.   A major logjam
rapidly ensued. With the creation of a Working Fund and Special Account
Program (SAP) in December 1983 applications and disbursements were
centralized through NHA and a modicum of orderliness achieved.
6.03  As previously noted, (see 4.10 and Urban II PCR) there occurred delayed
disbursements of GOP counterpart funds for Urban III from the outset. As
in Urban II, this was a conscious policy of the government budget agency
as it struggled to meet proliferating domestic funding requirements in
the face of rapidly declining revenues. Foreign-assisted projects were
given a lower priority for releases, regardless of loan covenants, in
order precisely to force "front-ending' arrangements like the Working
Fund which was eventually established.   Given similar experience in
previous Bank assisted projects the structuring of the original Urban III
loan mechanism showed a distinct lack of foresight on the part of the
Bank.
6.04  Hence, it was not until early 1984 that the loan disbursement mechanism
was functioning efficiently. By then events had overtaken the project
and the loan disbursement rate did not begin to recover until 1985.
6.05  It was assumed at appraisal that 78% of project capital costs would be
recovered through direct beneficiary charges and service tariffs.  The
following sections will examine financial performance of specific
agencies involved in the project.
B. NHA
6.06  The cost recovery problems experienced by NHA in Urban I and II have
contir.ued in Urban III. Performance in terms of disposing completed lots
has improved. Of 156,T1   eom.plertjlots in the original ZIP sites, 12,011
('7X) had been sold by June 30, 1988.   At Karangalan Village SIY. of
Cov,uplcrev lots had been sold by the same date. Figure VI.1 shows the
status of accounts generated for the original ZIP sites and Karangalan.
6.07  Collection performance, particularly in the ZIP sites, has not shown
similar improvement. As shown in Annex 3, only 46% of current period
potential was collected for the quarter ending June 1988. At Karangalan,
an encouraging 90% of potential for that period was collected but
significant arrearages remain.
6.08  As noted earlier,  it was originally planned that local governments
throughout the MMA would accept responsibility for collections in ZIP
sites in their jurisdictions. In fact, only CAA Compound (Phase I) and
1/ This idea was eventually abandoned in 1984 by mutual agreement.



- 38 -
STATUS OF ACCOUNS CENERATED
Figure VI,1
TOTAL,NUBR.R      :   FULLY PAID         :     A       C T I    E   :   I N A C T I V E
PROJECT                  :0 F   A C C OU N T S:   A C C O U N T S   : a C C O U N T S-            A C C O U N T S
02    :   01    :   Q2    :    91    :    02    ;   01    :   02    :    Q1    :
:   :   :      :           :           :         ~      ~    ~     ~     ~~~~~~:::  :25
A.  OR16INAL ZIP SITES (15:991)          :    12866      13376 :      1224:       1103:    11000 :    10798 :        642 :      1475 :
Residential                          :    12098 :    12602 :      1132 :      1014 :    10365 :    10156 :       591 :      1432 :
Slue Upgrading (Lots)             :    12089frVZ)12602 :        1132 :     1014 :    10365 :    10156:         591 :      1432:
1.  JUAN LUNA                   :      618 :       619:         44:        34:        557 :      574 :        17:         10:
2.  LEVERIZA                    :       324 :      323:         15:        13:        245.:      245 :        64:         65:
3.  BA60N6 BARRIO               :     4516 :      4940:        506:       468:       4010:      4020 :   ,   0:          452:
4.  TAhROS                      :       619:'      576:         20:        16:        599 :      560:          0:          0:
5;  TANON6                      :        0:          0:          0:         0:          0          0           0           0
6.  HULO ESTATE                 :      1081 :     1076 :       144 :      119 :       905 :      910 :        32:         47:
7.  SAN MARTIN                  :       558:       5598         22:        21:   *  536:         537:            :         0 :
9.  LANDLESS BARAN6KA           :      430         430 :        21:        17:        399 :      413 :        10 :         0 :
9.  CAPRI ESTATE                :       931:       912:         20:        15:        911:       897:          0:          0:
10.  WEST CRANE                  :      278:          8 21:      33:        27 :       245:       251:          0:          0:
11.  CAA COMPOUND                          0 0:     635:          0:        11:          0:          0:         O:        624:
12.  NARiCABAN                   :     1958 :      1946 :       269        240 a      1682 :     1473 :         7 :      233
13.  TRANO/F. VICTOR             :      695 :       230 :        37 :       32:        199 :       198 :      460:          0
14.  ANAKDAYAN                   :       8  :         C:          1:         1 :        78:        78:          1:          1:
Sull Buriness Loan                   :      148 :      144:         55:         52:        91:         85:        12:          7:
DISTRICT I                      :        50 :       46:          9:         8:         37:        38           4:          0:
DISTRICT 11                              46 :       46          21:        21:         19:        20:          6:          5 :
DISTRICTIII                             33 :       33:         16:        16:         17:         17:           :         0 :
DISTRICTIV                      :        19 :       19:          9:         7:        '8:          10:         2:          2 :
Housing Material Loan      '              630 :      630:         37:  '   37:          554:        557:        39:         36:
Bagong Barrio                   :      257:        257:            :        0 :       249:       249:          8:          9:
Naricaban                       :       373:       373:         37:        37:        305:       308:         31:         28:
B. PASI  S/S (KARANBALAN)  (;,Coa)   :        4850(01I.) 4267 :        70 :        45:       412 :      3648 :      659 :       574
Residential                         :     4618 :     4253 :        70:        45:       4075 :      3634 :      473 :       574 :
Sites/Services (Lots)             :    4618 :       4253 :        70 :       45:       4075 :     3634 :       573 :       574 :
Social Lots                     :     4350 :      3937 :        68:        45:       3947 :     3519 :       335 :      373
Econoeic Lots                   :      268:        316:          2:         0:        128 :      115:        138:        01:
Comercial/lndustrial         '    :       232 :       14 :         0 :         0:        46 :        14:       186 :         0:
I2~~~:::::    
======_==::=::====I=======:===========:====:========:====:=:=====



- 39 -
Tanong sites with 350 and 407 lots respectively had been turned over to
local government.   NHA  is left in the very untenable position of
attempting to collect from about 40,000 (including Tondo and Dagat-
dagatan) beneficiaries scattered all over the MMA. The recently approved
Sector Loan to NHMFC makes provision for take-out of NHA new mortgages,
but little progress in this direction has been made to date.
6.09  This already difficult situation has been worsened by goverment's recent
announcement of 6%, 25 year mortgages on principal amounts up to P60,000
under NHMFC's Unified Home Lending Program (UHLP).  Beneficiaries in both
Urban II and III projects are being charged 12% interest on their
mortgages.    Predictably,  these  beneficiaries  are  appealing  for  a
reduction of their interest rates and collections have suffered.
6.10  As noted in Sec. 5.26 of this report, slow processing and registration of
titles remain as impediments to sales and collections especially at
Karangalan.   In upgrading projects it appears that there is an almost
inevitable time lag of several years before beneficiaries start to
appreciate the value of owning the titles to their properties. In several
of the Urban II/SIR projects, significant numbers of beneficiaries have
very recently begun paying their obligations on an accelerated or cash
basis.   As time passes without evictions, wages rise as do property
values and beneficiaries find acquisition of a clear title to be in their
best financial interest.
6.11  Affordability does not appear to be a major impediment to collection in
ZIP sites. The average 55 sq. m. lot sells for abouc P10,000 requiring
a rvonthly payment of P105.   Assuming 15% of income  is devoted to
amortization payments,  the average P10,000 ZIP lot is theoretically
affordable to families with monthly income of P707 (P8,425 annually),
well within the first decile of the MMA income distribution (see Table
VI.3 for income distribution).
6.12  In sum, collection rates in NHA's ZIP and other slum improvement projects
continue to be very low.  Imposition of sanctions occurs very rarely and
local governments offer little or no assistance.  As noted in previous
reports, payments of obligations to government in general are very low
throughout the country. Even if NHA's ZIP mortgages are eventually taken
out by NHMFC there is little evidet.ce to indicate that collection
efficiency will improve until the beneficiaries themselves determine that
it is in their best interest to pay.
C. MMINUTE
6.13  The costs of (a) road and drainage improvements and (b) water systems
constructed under the MMINUTE component (Table VI.2) were assumed at Ap-
praisal to be recovered through increased property tax assessments and
service tariffs, respectively. Almost all of the more than 200 barangay
standpipes and water wells constructed by MMINUTE have been turned over
to MWSS which is collecting tariffs, although specific data on actual
cost recovery is not available.



- 40 -
COWARIUON OF APPRAISAL AND CURRENT PROJECT COST
TOTAL PROJECT COST
IN MILLION PESOS )
TABLEI-2
I   M M  I N U T E
------------------------------______
ITEMS OF WORK        I  APPRAISAL   t   OURRENT
s  ESTIMATE    * Z ESTIMATE      X VARIANCE
-----------------------------_                            _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
ON SITE INFRASTRUCTURE     s               a               z
* WATER SUFPLY           *         24.230 z        16.495S 6-7.735
* SANITATION              a        30.337 *        14. 171. 57,   -16.166
* DRAINAGE                         5 S0.225 8277.    99.975       .39.750
* STREET                  a        64.006 aHZ    129.639 8    l    65.632
* TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY                4.070 *21       0.000          -4.070
SUB-TOTAL                       1 s72.8 B.,    250.279.s         77.411
OTHER ITEMS                *
* DESIGN/SUPERVISION      s        18.602 * INCL   29.333 * CL   10.731
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS              .191.470.   b    279.612 i 6%O    88.142
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT      s        18.310 s        24.491 * I7      6.181
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE       s         6.530 t aNcL   17.613 * ICL   11.083
' .IVII.IO~ s1em .sI,s
OTHER REQUIREMENtS *                 0.000 s -      23.410  7%       23.410
SUB-TOTAL               a        24.840 s        65.5i4 c        40.674
GRAND TOTAL      .      :       216.310 1 1007  345.126 ajOO%   128.816
------------------------------------------------------__ ------------------
* PO.309 a for cost of 3 units Water Storage Tank chargeable against
sanitation/MKC cost responsibility or financial liability.



- 41 -
6.14  The substantial increase in real estate values along the more than 153
kms. of roads improved by MMINUTE have not been captured by the local
governments due to lack of implementation of updated property tax
assessments in these areas. However, with the tax mapping project for the
Metro Manila it is expected that a substantial portion of the land value
increases in these areas can be captured within the next 5 years.
6.15  The impact of such a transition period has been taken into account in the
economic reevaluation exercises for MMINUTE projects where a gradual
build-up of land value increases is assumed over a five year period.
6.16  One MMINUTE component,  the acquisition of maintenance equipment for
rental to LGUs through MMC, was expected to recover costs. At present,
70% of the P24.491m worth of equipment acquired is held by LGUs in the
NMA without payment of rental fees (except Quezon City). MMC initiated
positive measures to reactivate the management and operations of the
IMDMS but as of this writing, the same administrative/operations problems
recur.
C. PSSP
6.17  Table   VI.3   shows   loan   amounts   required   to   purchase   units
constructed/planned under the PSSP component. Over 70% of the total
planned units will be affordLble to households -ith median income or less
in the MMA distribution, including estimates for sites now under
construction.
Table VI.3
Private Sites and Services Project
Affordability Table
June 1988
MMA
Decile   Annual HH      ULP     Loan  Completed  Planned   % of    Cumulative
Income   Multiplier  Amt.    Units      Units    Total          %
1st     13,266       2.17    28,787    326        523       13%         13%
2nd     17,948       2.17    38,947    357        734       18%         31%
3rd     22,463       2.17    48,744    144        274        7%         38%
4th     27,489       2.17    59,651      34       169        4%         42%
5th     33,191       2.17    72,024    358      1,222       30%         72%
6th     40,334       2.17    87,524    265        529       13%         85%
7th     49,430       2.17   107,263      31       381        9%         94%
8th     63,665       2.17   138,153    265        231        6%         100%
9th     93,975       2.17   203,925       2       ---       ---          ---
10th    above        2.17     above    ---        ---       ---         ---
Total:                                           1,782    4,063          100%
6.18 As shown in Annex 2 of this report, only 706 mortgages (17%) of the total
planned units had been taken out by end of June 1988. Since only 1 of



- 42 -
the 5 PSSP projects will be completed before early 1990, and the rest by
March 1990, it may be safe to assume that very little displacement, if at
all, may arise in the realization of the projected production of over 70%
of the total planned units which shall be affordable to households with
median  income  or  less  in the MMA distribution.    This  is further
strengthened by the fact that the proponents of these projects have pre-
sold their units to target beneficiaries, and have, in effect, committed
the selling price of the units in question.  For the project (de la Costa
II) to be completed by 1990, evaluation could be continued under the
auspices of the Shelter Sector Loan.
E. TLRC/Livelihood
6.19  Through the second quarter of 1988 TLRC had received for the  ULFP a
total of P143.5m in national government releases against which was
charged P96.2m in Urban III loan proceeds.
6.20  As of March 31, 1988 ULFP   assets totalled P112.8m with P53.4m in
outstanding loans. A summary of ULFP loan disbursements by geographic
area appears as Annex 4 and Annex 5 presents the ULFP statement of
operations from 1981 to mid-1988.
6.21  The IJLFP's collection performance is very encouraging.  As of July  1988
cumulative collections stood at 90%, and 97% of the potential (i.e. the
amount due) for the immediately preceding period. Accumulated arrearages
are problematic but disposition of foreclosed assets totalling Pllm is in
progress.
6.22 Efforts to increase the program's portfolio are constrained by lack of
qualified staff at current government salary levels. The ULFP continues
to be extremely liquid with income from interest earned on financial
investments exceeding income earned from loan interest payments in 1987.
6.23 In sum and as previously noted, the ULFP is the first financially viable
urban livelihood program to be implemented in the Philippines. Clearly,
the most important question facing the ULFP is how to achieve arn orderly
expansion of its operations outside of the MMA.
F. MMC
6.24 As this PCR was being written, the Philippine Congress was in the process
of abolishing the MMC prior to creation of the Constitutionally mandated
Metro Manila Authority following plebiscites to be held in the Metro area
at an unspecified date.   In view of the organizational uncertainty
surrounding the Metro Manila Commission the cities and municipalities
have refused to remit their 15% revenue allotments to MMC. Some local
government units have even undertaken individual garbage collection.
6.25 Hence, there is little to evaluate in terms of MMC's financial
performance. Local governments have virtually absconded with maintenance
equipment turned over to MMC by MMINUTE. SWIP equipment is operating at
MMC's cost. It is not known how the cost of CORPTEP equipment will be



- 43 -
recovered. Until the new Metro Manila Authority is established the status
of all financial obligations incurred by MHC under Urban III will remain
unclear.
0. Summaary
6.26 In sum, the financial performance of Urban III components has been very
uneven for a variety of reasons.   Under current conditions, only the
MMINUTE, Public Sites and Services, Livelihood, and CORPTEP components
appear to be clearly replicable.   The national slum upgrading program
will undoubtedly continue but financial viability does not appear likely
in the near term. The PSSP component, while still incomplete as of the
writing of this PCR, shows a positive indication of attaining its
financial objectives. To ascertain this, monitoring could continue under
the auspices of the Shelter Sector Loan. The role of local government in
development in the MMA and the entire country remains unclear and must be
a major policy concern in future urban and regional development programs.
H. Economic Reevaluation
6.27 The severe devaluation of the peso (from 7.5 at appraisal to 21.0 at
project completion) and total restructuring of the loan, the incomplete
status of many components, the absence of ERR assumptions and
methodologies at appraisal have combined to make economic reevaluation of
the project very difficult.
6.28  Only MMINUTE has completed reevaluation of all projects.   A separate
volume prepared by the PMO is on file with the Bank.
The results of an economic reevaluation study of MMINJTE projects
conducted during the first week of July, 1988 showed that all in all, the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculations indicated that the MMINUTE I
program components largely surpassed the originally projected ERR of 15%.
The cases which failed to meet the original ERR criterion can be
considered as either necessary "political costs' or as "start-up" costs
from which valuable lessons can be derived and used for strengthening the
second phase of the program. A volume prepared by the PHO is on file
with the Bank.
6.29 TLRC is unable to determine the method utilized to prepare rate of return
calculations in the SAR.   However, as noted earlier (sec. 3.07) the
actual cost of about $250 per job generated is only 38% of the SAR
estimate. Hence, it is presumed that the actual ERR of the ULFP would
greatly exceed Appraisal estimates.
6.30 NHA has been unable to calculate ERR for completed ZIP sites but sees no
significant differences from the 19%-26% rates calculated for completed
sites in Urban II.
6.31  PSSPO has  also been unable to complete  calculations.    MMC has no
calculations for SWIP; since CORPTEP is expected to pay for itself in



- 44 -
less than one year, the calculation of a rate of return for this
component is assumed to be unnecessary.
VII.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Overview
7.01  The rather disparate assemblage of institutions involved in Urban III
required a level of interagency cooperation which had not been achieved
in either Urban I or II. The diversity of the implementing institutions
was reflected not only functionally but in terms of their maturity as
well. Of the 5 main participants (DPWH, NHA, MHS/PSSP, TLRC, MMC), only
the Dept. of Public Works and Highways had even been in existence before
1975.  MHS/PSSP, TLRC, and MMC were all creations of the late 1970s and
had virtually no track records in project design or implementation.
While NHA was already a veteran of two Bank-assisted loans it was still,
in 1980, very much an institution in the making.
7.02  Hence from the outset Urban III was heavily dependent upon the degree to
which participant institutions could build their own capabilities while
simultaneously implementing complex investment programs. MHS and MMC, in
particular, were 'intruders" into accepted national political and
bureaucratic structures; their existence was based on specific political
realities of the time. NHA and TLRC, on the other hand, wete undertaking
tasks in which no other existing institutions had any interest and for
which there was no support system within the existing bureaucracy.
7.03  To varying degrees each of the main Urban III components depended upon
the cooperation of outside agencies.   The following reviews by agency
will  briefly  highlight  both  internal  and  external  aspects  of
institutional performance.
B. NHA
7.04  As noted earlier, the Bank-imposed scheme for participation of local
governments in ZIP was a failure from the outset. Few local governments
were interested in the upgrading projects, and none were interested in
assuming the attendant financial liabilities for projects within their
jurisdictions.   The failure of local government participation in ZIP
mirrors the experience of Urban II and the Shelter Component of Urban IV.
This subject is fully discussed in the Urban II PCR.
7.05  On the other hand, NHA's institutional linkage with, in particular, DPWH
and MWSS greatly improved in Urban III. Specifications for works to be
constructed by NHA were agreed in advance and subsequent turnover of
completed items was greatly expedited. By agreement, HWSS prefers
completion of all water and sewerage works, including these in the new
ZIP sites.
7.06 The Metro Manila Projects Department (MMPD) within NHA is well developed
and has clearly demonstrated its production capacity. Recent turnover of



-45-
senior management has not detracted from MMPD's performance as its pool
of experienced technical staff is deep.
7.07  As noted earlier, NHA's capability to dispose of completed units in a
timely fashion has also shown great improvement.  Still, this critical
activity is frequently at the mercy of the Bureau of Lands and local
Registers of Deeds over whom NHA has no control. Real overtime work is
required of employees at BOL and Registers of Deeds offices given the
antiquated, completely manual systems in use. This very real bottleaeck
in the process of conveying properties to new owners exists throughout
the country and might well be the subject of a separate CORPTEP-like
project to include introduction of automated systems.
7.08  NHA's collection capability has not improved as dramatically.  With very
limited legal staff, thousands of accounts spread all over the country,
and staggering judicial backlogs for imposition of sanctions such as
eviction,  is almost nil.   Cases of "illegal detainer",  as eviction
proceedings are called in legal parlance, typically require no less than
18 months in court once docketed. Actual implementation of the eviction
notice through the city or provincial sheriff will require another 6
months and entail payment of sheriff's expenses which can be
considerable.   Typically, 10-15 court appearances would be required by
the attorney representing NHA in the prosecution of each case. Another
10-15 days of administrative work would be required to file each case,
prepare motions and subpoenas, and prepare the plaintiff's memorandum.
The 24 month period realistically required to accomplish each eviction
case can be considerably lengthened given community opposition and/or
political interference.
7.09  Thus, under existing Philippine laws prosecution by NHA of more than a
few symbolic cases of eviction is impractical.   While NHA's financial
management and accounting systems have greatly improved in recent years
including widespread  computerization,  there    still  exists  no  real
capacity  to compel payments.    Sale of mortgages  to NHMFC will be
beneficial to NHA but will be unlikely to improve beneficiary repayment
rates.    NHA's  commitment  and  ability  to  collect  has  increased
considerably but the fact is that payments particularly trom upgrading
projezts like ZIP, begin to improve only when beneficiaries find
acquisition of title to be in their best interest.
7.10  In sum,  NHA's performance  as a developer has continued to improve
steadily.  Aside from a few NGOs, NHA is the only organization in the
entire country producing truly low cost improved and new homesites. On
the other hand, after more than 10 years of intensifying efforts, NHA
still cannot collect effectively from beneficiaries who do not want to
pay.
C. MMINUTE
7.11  The  MMINUTE  Project  Management  Office(PMO),   as  noted  earlier,
demonstrated excellent flexibility, technical expertise and awareness of
community concerns in implementing projects under Urban III. As a PMO



-- 46 -
within DPWH, however, IIMINUTE has no permanent status but DPWH recognized
the necessity for its continuing existence by approving the conduct of
project preparation activities by the MMINUTE PMO. As of June 1988, DPWH
allocated P692.260 m for the year 1988-1993 and P748.994 m for the year
1994 and beyond for the continuation and expansion of the MMINUTE
Program.   The said amounts are incorporated in the Medium Term Public
Investment Program of the DPWH and embodied under the Executive Order 182
dated June 3, 1987 "RATIONALIZING PUBLIC WORKS MEASURES, APPROPRIATING
FUNDS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES".   MMINUTE's role as a
provider of services within local government jurisdictions is more
clearly defined in its second phase where the transfer of technology
acquired by its present staff from the Consultants will put MMINUTE in a
position to act as a "TRAINOR/ADVISOR" to local government units in terms
of similar MMINUTE implementation.
7.12  The second phase MMINUTE program known as MMINUTE II-FRINGE, has been
prepared and submitted to the NEDA-Investment Coordinating Council (NEDA-
ICC) for evaluation and clearance and is scheduled for Appraisal in early
1989.   For MMINUTE II-FRINGE,  a decentralized approach is proposed
wherein the local government units up to the barangay level would be
heavily involved in all aspects of the work: planning, financing and
implementation.   Thus, MMINUTE's role would revolve mainly around the
required technical assistance and training components of the program and
no longer as direct implementing agency as in Phase I.
7.13  Concurrently, the PREMIUM project (loan No. 2435) is introducing basic
infrastructure   a   la  MMINUTE   in  a  number   of  urban   centers
(cities/municipalities outside of the MMA. ALthough managed by separate
PM4Os within DPWH, taken together these projects constitute a major
initiative by national government to provide basic infrastructure
assistance to local governments through foreign loan packages, with cost
recovery and loan amortization as responsibilities of local governments.
Cost recovery measures are, however, limited to direct service tariffs
and increased property valuations which in the final analysis are
national responsibilities.   Besides adjustments in property valuations
are made every 3 years and collections are proportionately apportioned by
the National Government to local governments. It is hoped that with the
introduction  of  computerized  tax  mapping  activities,   collection
efficiency cz.a be imDroved.
7.14  In summary, as government moves to institutionalize MMINUTE and related
projects within DPWH, a complementary clarification/redefinition of the
role and responsibilities of the local governments in this type of urban
and regional development project is being worked out to realize greater
LGU involvement. With the government's recent policy of decentralization
and a more stable political tenure of local executives, it is hoped that
local government administration can be improved and further strengthened
through participation in MMINUTE like activities, among others, where
they will have a direct hand in planning, financing and implementation.
PREMIUMED and the proposed MMINUTE-FRINGE Program shall only serve a
"processing windows" to soft term financial assistance for LGUs to



47
finance priority development projects which cannot be accommodated from
LGUs regular budget and other local sources of funds.
D. PSSP
7.15 Like MMINUTE, PSSP remains a project office within a larger institution.
While PSSPO was originally envisioned to be coterminous with Urban III,
NHMFC now intends to retain the office as its construction financing loan
window for the UHLP.
7.16  Although somewhat foggily conceived at Appraisal ESSPO was generally
intended to operate as a loan window and take-out facilitator for private
sector developers. As events transpired, the office was forced to assume
increasing direct management and design responsibilities, particularly
for the Cielito project.
7.17 As discussed earlier, only the De la Costa I project containing 542 units
has been completed and fully taken out. This is primarily due to the
limited nature of government involvement in this project which was
adopted as a result of the difficulties arising from the complex
institutional arrangements in the Cielito Homes Project.   The 5 new
projects should provide a better gauge of performance by the PSSP give-L
the more flexible development financing terms adopted by the government
for the said projects.
7.18 Based on current results, of PSSP's dealing with private developers and
the recent HUDCC-Sponsored 2nd National Shelter Convention, enthusiasm by
the private sector has rapidly increased. A deeper sense of commitment
has resulted from the knowledge that the government is giving its all out
support for the production of social housing stock by continuing the
provision of loan packages not only for buyers mortgages but for
developers in need of interim development financing as well. Even before
the closing of Urban III in June 1988, the PSSP Project Development Group
has been deluged with applications for private developer's accredation
and project proposals for funding covering not only the Metro Manila
Area, but also the regions.
7.19 While the ability of the private developers to produce low cost housing
suited to the needs of the low income population in the Philippines
remains unproven at this stage, much of the constraints that makes its
attainment impossible have already been eliminated. Both government and
the private sector have pledged a deeper and more sincere commitment in
the program of social housing.   Clearly, the approval of the Shelter
Sector Loan is the most positive proof of the efforts of the government
towards the solution of the housing problem.
. TLRC
7.20 TLRC's implementation of the ULFP component was characterized by
considerable ingenuity particularly in terms of designing loan programs
based on established community value systems. In assisting borrowers to



- 48 -
improve their lives through apolitical, businesblike means the ULFP has
demonstrated that propagation of microeconomic enterprises can be
undertaken in a financially viable manner.
7.21  TLRC's  status  as  a  relatively  unknown  and  apparently  apolitical
government institution is an advantage. Previous government livelihood
programs such as KKK, Biyayang Dagat, etc., were all widely perceived as
"dole-outs" by borrowers ang government implementors alike. The low key
approach adopted by TLRC in implementing the ULFP has featured intensive
monitoring and training of borrowers. Key incentives are built into the
system; repayment of initial loans is rewarded by larger subsequent
loans. Red tape has been minimized and processing time for viable loans
is extremely fast by typical government standards.
7.22  The ULFP component has broken new ground in government-assisted small
business assistance programs even with problems of staff turnover,
management changes, and little or no assistance from other agencies. The
keys to the ULFP's success were intensive field work, dedicated staff
equipped with proper logistical support, and avoidance of political
influences.
7.23  The basic question now confronting TLRC is, as noted earlier, how to
expand the ULFP outside of the MMA while maintaining the key elements to
its success so far.   The institution's plans in this regard were not
clear as this report was being written.
F. MMC
7.24  MMC's dual role in the project was complicated:   coordinator, on one
hand, of local governments and KCB and implementor, on the other, of the
SWIP, CORPTEP, and TA components.
7.25  In 1980, MMC was simultaneously establishing its internal organization
and its external political linkages.   Provision of both significant
support and responsibility to this nascent institution was a major
calculated risk of the Urban III project.    From the planning and
management perspective, the MKC clearly requires an overarching authority
to coordinate provision of basic services. However, the local government
authorities involved have resisted what they see as MMC's usurpation of
their powers.
7.26  As noted earlier, the MKC is now in transition.  Elected local officials
from the Metro area cities and municipalities have not rejected the
principle of a Metro-wide authority, but any future institution must be
based on a political consensus which is now being sought.
G. Consultants
7.27 Tne agencies involved in Urban III expressed qualified satisfaction with
performance  of consultants.    NHA noted that expatriate TA  is too
expensive and that more emphasis should have been placed on formal



- 49 -
training and transfer  of technology.   MMINUTE considers  technology
transfer from consultants to have been successful at the PMO but less so
in the District Offices due to overcentralization. It hopes however, to
capture success in affecting direct technology transfer to the LGUs in
its second phase-program because the LGUs will now be the direct
implementing agencies.   PSSP notes that consultants did not achieve
desired accelerations.
K. Bank Staff
7.28 All involved agencies agree that the Bank's original appraisal of the
project was loose and, particularly with regard to ':ocal government
participation, not in tune with realistic expectations.   However, all
agencies expressed their satisfaction with Mission performance during the
difficult loan restructuring period and thereafter. As noted in Urban I
and II, changes in Mission personnel over time were accompanied by shifts
in emphasis which inevitably caused some confusi.on.   Continuity of
Mission membership remains the key element in improving the Bank's
performance.   Increased provision of short term technical assistance
through Missions would also be helpful in future projects.
VIII LESSONS AND PROSPECTS
8.01 As was the case in Urban I and II, a wide variety of lessons were learned
in Urban III. All participants showed tremendous ingenuity in overcoming
the economic and political crises which threatened to overwhelm the
project.
8.02 Hopefully, the lessons learned in crisis management will not need to be
reapplied in the near future. Therefore, this concluding chapter will
concentrate on lessons learned which have clear prospective applications.
8.03 A. Financial Performance (Loan Disbursement Mechanism)
Regardless of established policies, loan disbursement mechanisms must be
structured on the basis of realistic evaluations of local resources. It
is not realistic to expect that an abstract loan covenant will take
precedence .ver the very real budgetary pressures and constraints which
face government over time.  The establishment of the "Special Account
Program' (SAP) has indeed contributed to a more efficient system of
reimbursement and disbursement of loan proceeds.
8.04 Institutional Performance
Training/Timing of Works. Urban III, like its predecessors, placed very
hea'vy burdens on young organizations several of which were   "purpose-
built" specifically for the project.   New institutions need to build
their internal capability as well as create external linkages to existing
organizations. Training components should be built into loans and should
be implemented prior to civil works components particularly in cases of
new institutions. Prior to Appraisal proposed interagency linkages must
be "reality teste4"; that is, paper arrangements should be subjected to



- 50 -
frank and detailed analysis by proposed participants to determine
viability.    In  short,  institutions  should not be  overloaded with
simultaneous organizational and operational responsibilities.
Budgetary Power for MCB. The effectivity of a coordinating body like MCB
can be improved if it possesses sufficient leverage on the resources
which may be mobilized for the projects.    The element of project
performance appraisal tied up to fund releases which is present in the
Municipal Development Project is lacking in the Management Coordinating
Board (MCB) of Urban III.
PSSP Lessons for Future Operations.  While it is specially worthwhile to
note that the PSSP was able to achieve all of its program objectives, the
PSSP experience could be classified a big success, if only for the
valuable lessons learned from its implementation. The experiences and
lessons derived from them are indicative of the specific directions that
should be taken in future urban lending programs of this kind.
It is specially worthwhile to not that the PSSP was able to achieve its
most  important program objectives,  that of invoking private  sector
participation, institutionalizing the system of harnessing and utilizing
the skills and resources of the private sector thereby minimizing public
sector expenditures and the production of economically realistic shelter
for the low income urban population. Despite this success, institutional
performance could have been more effective with the adoption of simple
arrangements that will support efficient planning and implementation.
The objective of the maximum privatization should be exercised at all
times, keeping government's role well-defined and at a minimum.
MMINUTE (Monitoring following Completion). The experience of MMINUTE-PMO
organization consisting of clear and definite functional units for
project development and project implementation effects a better end
result  for desired outputs.    Community development efforts  of PMO
likewise document maximum impact to project beneficiaries.
This can be further strengthened with a regular but strong monitoring
unit to check economic life and benefits of completed projects and give
recommendations on how to resolve problems on site.
8.05 Local Governments/NGO's/Community Participation
As noted, local governments played a limited role in Urban III. Without
becoming repetitious, all of the participating institutions in Urban III
(save PSSP) have strongly stated the need for a unified policy to govern
LGU participation in development.    Infrastructure agencies must be
relieved of the burden of attempting to tailor programs to constantly
changing local government priorities.  The Department of Local Government
(DLG)  is currently studying this problem.   Future projects of the
MKINUTE/PREMIUMED/RCDP variety must be based on much clearer delineation
of local government responsibilities.



- 51 -
Under the MINUTE program, although there was close coordination between
the PMO and the local mayors, the full involvement of the LGUs can be
improved and effectively harnessed by giving them direct responsibilities
in planning, financing and implementing the MMINUTE projects including
maintenance and monitoring functions. Hence, under the MMINUTE Phase II,
the lesson derived is for the LGUs to act as the direct implementing
units for MMINUTE projects.
A strong and active community participation is an essential ingredient
for the success of a housing development project.   In most successful
ventures the presence of non-government organizations who spearhead the
creation of homeowner's associations and introduce community oriented
activities   and   undertakings   ensures   individual   awareness   and
responsibility consciousness among the project beneficiaries.
The MMINUTE 'Bottom -up approach" giving more emphasis at the community
level needs to be pursued and serve as a model to ensure project success
and  lasting  impact.    Basic  assumption here  that when  a community
association is established with clear and concrete responsibilities, they
can be depended upon to manage, operate and maintain government projects,
as in the MKINUTE barangay sanitation and water supply facilities.
Community liaison as well as linkage must be maintained as early as
planning, during implementation up to operations and maintenance. Active
community campaign on the benefits and obligations to the projects must
be  enhanced.    Training programs  on  community  and huma,  resources
development should also be addressed at the community level.
Non-government organizations (NGOs) involvement are clear indications of
good and effective public relations.   Coordination with existing NGOs
within the communities are necessary as checks and balance to public
accountability as a whole.
8.06  Cost Recovery (Upgrading)
While NHA has steadily improved its production and disposal capacities as
well as its financial management capabilities, cost recovery rates in all
of the Urban I-IV upgrading sites remain problematic. Revised pricing
policies, takeouts by NHMFC, and dedicated community relations work
cannot change the reality that upgrading project beneficiaries cannot be
effectively compelled to pay.  There continues to be a clear need for
national government to encourage payment of obligat.ons through a
positive campaign including education on the real value of owning a clear
title to property. The experience to date has been that beneficiaries do
pay when they appreciate the increasing value of their property. The
whole concept of the benefits of property ownership including incentives
for rapid repayment must be emphasized from the outset in upgrading
projects.   NHKFC should take immediate steps to implement a positive
national campaign of this type if it expects to achieve the objectives of
the Shelter Sector Loan. In sum, sanctions have not worked in tte past
and will not in the foreseeable future.



- 52 -
8.07 Home Materials and Technical Assistance (Serviced Sites)
New serviced sites and core housing projects should provide readily
accessible building materials and technical assistance for processing of
building permits and actual construction.   Such services can and are
being provided by existing private organizations.  Future projects which
require self-help inputs from beneficiaries should include such on-site
services on a routine basis. The Building Material Loan Component did not
turn out too well.   It was maintained tnat cost of moving of houses
should not be treated as loans thereby inconveniencing doubly affected
families.    Rather  such  costs  should be  treated  as project  costs
receivable from all beneficiaries.
8.08 Mobilization of Public/Private Resources
Urban lending assistance should encourage the mobilization of both public
and private resources in order to sustain the implementation of urban
housing projects. An appropriate division of responsibilities between
the public and private sectors should be instituted so that each sector
eventually does the activities for which it is best suited.
8.09 Program Affordability and Cost Recovery
Urban lending assistance should underscore the need for self-sustaining
programs.    Toward  this  end,  the production  of housing  should be
undertaken with the maximum flexibility in technical standards, taking
into account the beneficiaries ability to pay and certain absolute
minimum standards that should be adopted to avoid future maintenance
problems.   Urban lending assistance should furthermore emphasize cost
recovery as this will primarily relieve the shelter sector on relying
heavily  on  government  subsidies  and  allocations.    Giving  private
developers physical guidelines and standards restricts their ability to
come up with more appropriate plans and specifications. The only bottom
line that is important is their delivery of the units affordable to the
target beneficiaries.   The private developers should be allowed to
realize a certain amount of profit to ensure the replicability of the
project.   Projects relying solely on government subsidies and not on
feasibility may not be worthy of replication considering the present
economic condition in the country.
Urban lending assistance should support the creation or strengthening of
existing housing finance institutions in view of significantly mobilizing
the resources of the private sector. This may also effectively reduce
reliance of the shelter sector on unsustainable public sector subsidies
or resources.
8.10 Education Information System.
Training and Technical Assistance
An area wide education information system must be strengthened side by
side with an effective and efficient monitoring unit sensitive to the



-53 -
pulse of community needs and priorities to ensure dissemination and
acceptability of government development projects.
Lending assistance for urban projects should encourage the adoption of
simple institutional arrangements that will support efficient planning
and  implementation.    Convoluted  institutional  arrangements  foster
inefficiencies and unwarranted delays that threaten the project's
viability. The PSSP Cielito Homes experience is one example of a complex
institutional arrangement that has gone sour.   The PSSP model is for
maximum privatization of keeping government's role well-defined and at a
minimum.
Urban lending assistance should allow for training and education
components to equip the institutions participating in project planning
and  implementation  with  the  requisite  skills.          Organizational
restructuring, policy formulation and changes, and manpower development
programs should be encouraged to ensure thac the required institutional
support is in place when deemed necessary.   Maximum opportunities for
human resources development within the organization should be as
important  as  project  implementation.       An  outstanding  operating
performance is indicative of an excellent professional work force.
8.11  Land Acauisition and Titling Facilitation
The Bureau of Land and Registrar of Deeds continue to be bottlenecks in
the expeditious conveyance of real properties in the Philippines. This
problem affects NHA and private developers as well. A national program
to improve the service delivery capabilities of these offices is clearly
required.
Finally, urban lending assistance should also move towards the
simplification and streamlining of bureaucratic government procedures
involved in the following:
8.11.1   Subdivision of titles - Bureau of Lands
8.11.2   Registration/Annotation of Sale and Mortgage - Registrar of
Deeds
8.11.3   Government Permits and Licenses - HLRB
8.11.4   Processing of Loan Applications - Originating Institutions
8.11.5   Processing of Mortgage Take-outs - NHMFC
8.11.6   COA Inspection and Pre-Audit Procedures - COA
The government should adopt an "express land" concept where procedures
and requirements are short listed, simplified and systematized for faster
and more efficient processing.



- 54 -
Streamlining of government procedures and 'red tape' particularly in
titling and registration (annotation of sales and mortgage) is important
in eliminating a persistent bottleneck in housing development projects.
Most government projects are now adopting an "express lane" system
wherein procedures and requirements are shortened, simplified and
systematized for faster and more efficient processing.



V~~~~~~~~ I
|~~~~~~~           -    nf              V * . fl *    r. fl    -
- ~~~~4  ~~~.           -          I~~Ez.SI
~~~~  -   --~~~~~r-     
;;s;;h      !   . .        #1 's   3                     ei                    .
..... . ,.    _        _   -- -  - - - - - - -t
I                          .1~~~~~~~~~~  
|Bi   X   W    g    # ntstMtialog.  azag  3G        
-iVii t _ p* V _r
|8~~   i'   we 8i         S      .-.-2... ihS_
Xlth-X-----h_-- -h----------------------- S _y
ZZ8iw~~~~O                               P :-  asSaX^wB!Ss    . w 
8S2       3   j  "                                               I           - :fl      i_f gnf  "2            
~~aba~ ~ ~                             y  a  a  XO O      m      
- - - - - - --    .  .                              i. 
XZNKVI                       5s~ ~~                                    5
--------------------  r------ -___   _..   
.... ~ ~                         ... -    *. 
a *1           35 lYY"  " . E    B  
-~ ~ .-.       -4.-   ",                     l l
--  ----  -        pt --   S C   l I.e.--   111t1l'-  '    -  - -
3'.~~  Il              i       XMF   -.i
-                      -     _ t-                               - 
I~~~~-.- xu                                              -



MIP      t XN   OMMSAY
A   AND #90"c Sd7gt "RYCC&r
tun P IMTS2 utm   fhI
a * is am 191
C    0     S.  t                                                              I S     t    E    E        tIL    I .
EWIET/0121*CTU  I  :NTUCTE cU  I t t    S            1mK   I 6,    Ct0 I                                                      I            lit  -                             I
tNSKt<>RWTS              I                              2tUCt Cm   : YSA19E1tI   iCmcIi: rtuD Ct0 :m         T:0 C 1101 O  r      f           I                               : I   2   -  A A A I I I
t    :              IE"DFUlUltU~~~~~~~An RN E      riO" N t  :4  -EEM                        ML                        thU!ttt  t
t        :otstm.  . -t   -     t: t       t         :mTBo IIFTI I          BU 1     xE S1F         *.EtNTIF2F:IOFN II tI:2:T:::                                               :
2 WhiM.:nviu  :  P   :  I   t  f.  :  t   :   in II                 223315 12 220133FI  llt 11          t I SIt. :tlIIT2J2*:StUt3Jt:S  ttt:J5:F:2t:22:st:01                   :
IS. Coll!                I  .6       9.n73729.7M   100.0al 9.73   100.0012          I        1         21                22                       222222222
1I.. VS   1AN            L.      .  9.n7tA- 9.0 2100.0     9.84 I100.0012          2         I         I         :       :       :       t       Il2lii ti 112 2 tillt                                 I
1?. C M                 t :   12.2U2    12.623 I 12.32  I 1OO.0   2U.370 2 91.4712  I  0.002 2  0.453 1   1.100 21.3   1.015                                 .h...l.s.  ur I                 S ....st I
__ __S  t.  ----~ . 2_ I--  -4-             I     -I        t       2-ltI-ItI     I-t -I21.22I 2      1 stbemlibttui      t1
I ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~         ~ ~      ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~ ~~ ~~                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ II  I  I   I    I    I    I    I   t  I ,,   ,l,        ,  I I I F I* I ro
....    .  j....     :     .   .             L...|.  2.      2                                                                                t I 2  2  t 2  I 222112221:   2:1 
13.US2CMM               I37JU  t37.134 37.1542 100.002 237.053: 99e.61                 0.03t 1   0.126     0.12          2 0.2321 0.233          .   ....... ...              I :bumia          sortistW  I
_   __            J... _     1 .             2 :             2 t              2:        2         2 t  t  :  t                             2t  I  11tIIII      1,2It4!  Iatutngctlu,I    :
I        2       2       I       |       :       t        t I                 t 2               t       t 2            | | t I t | 1: 1:: 2:: 2  2: 122wII I1 1o    I
.. .. . _. ......J               .. :  :_.. _t.....  L. 2    .-    . .             .....          ... -2 .  .2.   I2I.  I I. -.2   I   I   2 t* 1 121121I  I I2II11 124.2  
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ .        .4        I       I         .                II I  III    It1
SlIESt16M       uf   1.3=    31.0 M213u12 192          2 4. 4.1   2 J  2            02 0  2         24    2ii   140   d-f 2                    122111lt222
am I MR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



*-                                                -                       I6
3 2~~~~~~~~~~ 
-  a                                                 a..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
~~~~j                                     Z~~~~~3  9   2   a
. a -  -                   ---                         
--  JICO   -    0                                                                  I~~-- --     - - -      - - -    -   
--  -                     ~~~~~- -                i                 
0   00  0  I   .~~~00   0   0   0     -  ----- a         
u~~~  ~~~-  ts    *~~~~~~~   6~                           -       - -        I- - -i- -
L'-S



c     0     s    T                                                                                  t  I   f    I  V   L   f    I
CORWICURTWOR                    CMMMCT CMT   ACCMISMBT  AMMPLINM    mm                                                     COST TO CONPLETE                              I 1187                                     E a A I 9 s
EW OF VRUA 1111 ASVANCE  I                                                                                        im      11111Z. roix
PAMT ; WEITIONt"156  ADD-L IUKM;
Wm   I mm   I Wm                   m    :UCKAW t MAL  FM  "Accomr.:
DRISINK  :UVISED;   P                                                          jW411 Ill .1011FIDI  rim                  I MIT.
- ftnt IC - F"tiw           t  2-472    l 3.243 1 3.263   1011.0011 t.741 t MM:  0.209                            1.514       O.W    1 0.136: 2.250    2.041:             1::11.3                                      fill   Vallit
t        I                           ::111:77 M                ,           table
:13.184:12.2833 MM! MU                  71.161,   O.M    I   0.061  1   3.697         O.W   t 0.3a  I 4.142 t 4.7il 1 32.11Z: I Mg  ...... I . I . .09"
t-     -t--                                                                                .1 -I I 1: ;-I I Tr: I'l 11: I I t I I I I
4. Tnvo Singaicag                                                     I        I
brm
-- " ical - 6.1. liprial-I 0.8617  I 4.0m  t 4.0m  I 100.0t.. 0.0m  1- I".0n:                                                                   t        I                  t t I t t    I   t I   t It t Itt
- Lot - loptrial            -t 0.132       O.In     O.In    300.001: #.In  IIOO.mj                I                                           I        10                 I $- I I I    I   I I   : ;1. I tI
--Lotfitlin-                                   -          ...I-       I      . I        I           I           I          t   0.0761           1 4.0761 0.0761             I I.: I I I I I I ti   I I r"    t
lnfrairKtwe                                                       I                 I
--#"kw         __.. -        1             2.3621 2.3621 100.0al 2.W   I l1b.m..
0.123      OXA : OJU  : 140.M: O.IU  : I00.WZ:                                                                                                                         III I:Imfn. ark complood.
-total                             2.80  I 1.10  I in-         2.8U.1 I  m.                           t           1   0.016 1
S. old Sta. Nna-                                                                                                                                                              t :1 its I ill I   II I II                                   00
ftsical - rArpitim         t 0.071        0.071    0.071 I 100.0011 0.071 Itoo.m..                                                                              t          I I   I I   I       I     I I II
Aid'i M"-- - CWPJ t8m   -1 - 0-04   1 0.064-2 6.064 I 100.01; 0.064 1 too.=-.                                                                                  I           : 11t:j: I          I     1. I 1:
Let - Carpitan             I 0.466   1 0.3x  I 0.3n  I 100.001: m*I %.Mt                         I           I   0.018                          4.011: 0.414:            I   I   .:I I .:Ill tII1. II
-W   litlioq --            -1- - -       I  -     I  __    1.     -.1                                                     I    Ons I              km   I .m   I
taftntrecten                                                                                                                                                                                                   W.1 owk calwh  of
mm        N0               I 13493   I L3.394-1 11.481   13.Ml -IO.M   1 U.3611  0.00  I                    1   2-416  1   0.200    1.2251 2.921: 2.421"                 1 1 1 1     prr=qmrrqmm  .,I I no mm.
- hm   11 - F=               113.962   1 13.99  1 12.m   1 U.Ml Ism     I 100.001.
-410. 1 1 - FLVC               1 0.441 - 1- 0.341 1- -1.347 1 100.0011 0.347 1 100.001.                                                                                                                      t I I
- V.S. # 2 - FLU             1 0.49    1 0.345 t 0.343 : 106.0fts- 0.345 1 100.M:                  I                                                                         3 I I i 1. PMROMM   1 1 I I I t I I
$A&419[d Offict -gotbar 1 0.438   1 0.566 1 0.566 -.'jqsmj 0.3"  1                                                                                                                           P"   I I : I I :
V.I. P. Fmo - lamr            0.047      4.067 ! 0.067: 100.0011 0.067 1 IOO.ml
-NW    - -  -                   0.3n       I-V   I 1.30  I 100-00t: Im     I 100.001t                             O.IL2  I           I        t 0.1121 0.112:
Total               i imst       3e.674   v.4it I sa.m. mim  I nant  cm                              1   7.626  1   0.40       I.W    1 3.U4 1  2.04              9
I
6. alkin  Altura/                                                                                                                                                                        I I   I       IIII I
10sloomil toma          I
br"v-
-"ical
hm    I - laws               Uri   1 0.032 1 0.032   106.0011, UN  I 10.1ftl
ftm    2 - laws              0.m        0.443 1 0.045 1 I".m: 0.043   Im.ml                     I           I                                                                         It             I I II
- Lot Swvoy                                                                                                                                                                         it: I I I I   t II        II
Fbm    I - laws              0.10'      0.107 1  0.107   1110.6011 4,0110   84.1111             I  0.0"         O.Oti                       I 0.017    0.424            t      I I III           t   II   II
Lot TH1141                                                         I        I        I                                  1   4.043 1          1 $."I 1 4.443                     I It   I I I I      tFNF"   I
lofrsitrKtwo                                             t         I        t        I           I                                           I        I         I        I        I
F%#"   t - F"tod                         Z."? t U47 1. IN."U   I.M             1  ".4ftl  s.W   It          I   1.00   I   S.W         I I.M    1 'I.07 I  I.J47 : ItjUs' I I      I                          INS-1 Mt iKIOM



. ~        ~~~~                 .~ _                                                            I     
e             pa       E        a aa    a           ,.#           aa         '.J            I    *    ..  X t3!i  
E~~    ~  ~        -   -                               w                           -     --------
rw                                                  -                     ir
-              --          -         -i -i - - - - - -
g- ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ 3~
~~  --                   - -     - -    - - -      - -     - -     - -     - - -     - -     - -     -       
_~~~~~5 ,                                                                                                      -s .      ',iIl
 t $:                    i ~~~a                                                       jk1- .pt
o    P ~ | l'      'l    .                  ! g   l.-                              sq
"  ~~  ~ i r i _ ;   .&.  i                                                                                      I             ii
~~- ---------                               - ----- --------T-
-    -                                                                                      a - - - - -  - -  -
....~~~~~~~~~~~~ -. .. -.... .. -  --  -  -   .. - -                                                
F 9- 
_____ .      _     - -- - - - -     -          - - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -^   - - - - -
xam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                
_ __    _    ._    _ _    _    __ __    _    __ __    _       _ _ __    _    __    _e    _  ._ __ 
_._ _ _ _ _ .  _    _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _i 
_____.  _    _    ______,____    _    _______    _    ________    _X!!_                                     .
.______...._________                                                            __-~~~-'6
_    __._    __  ____  ........._    ___-------v- f.. ...... I *
- ~~~                          ~            ~            ~I9 .                                               -- 
.~~               ~ -. 6I-



[  |   ~ St-{.  ||   - -2                     c-                    i         -  
 ' S ~~~~~~~~~~~-                                   -g=.   ' jS   8       
----*''-----------7 -- ------------                               -----
-  -   -           o_ -   -              .- -   -   -   -  -   __-- - ---   -- - - - -    - - - - -
44    44  a.   a   44  I  -**                                           I.;~
-a          -         E l!
r-4   - --- --  -  ------ - ._ .
g b.Bg."Zi!bia    . 4  ;4    3,  e,     -        4  |4  -a        |    4    8a!
i   .  4  4S    a.           a   a                                       aa aiS e is!  5 g S   g
i-                                 |                                            n t ?l'I X 18i  
44.             i;.         -"        5. iX e                                         X 0
~~   -   -   I --                                             I-LIir
Ss       gg re! jj
r           o         o       r             o                   .    .                 -
--------- ----- ---- -----..l-~---
*     44  44    a.                    a.          w        aa          ,.a    .
--- -- - ----  -                                   ---- --- -
--       _ - - - --- -_                                            - - - -                I
1"a~~~~~~~~~~
o  I                                                                            '_
-.                        -   . - - -.                            a .- - - - - --
;g      *  .'                                09 ,iI-
a           a         a X        a          a@   a               * a     1
p                               a                  p- _                       1 
__ _ _   _   _   _     __    --                                                    Va_
___ _*__    ______ .  .  ...              _         .   .   ____.     .  .            -.         _       3^
_4  _4  _           _      4  _44  _          ..  a   a                 .. _V___  
_____~~4  _.  __                       _    __ _ .  _____ _a,..  ____ 44  _a .''   
sPs! S                  t  *.                       E_S 9_K E.                         b 
..-- .--*.;|^                                                                    ',. 
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~0 '4    U a8
,   s-       .--- 09, ..,



STAIS OF Iwwulaiim IPUVIrAI
I                                         C    0    5        T                                                                I 1        a I II    I   I I
I                                                                                                         -    1 ~~~~~~~~~~~___-2 
I                       TAMT      I      011U      2I Kim-:             I                                                    1            2      193st        I
CMlIwlIcu2Kt                    W CMTu    u: I   AWIUUhe3T I      u~ISmI: "tor    I                          COST   1.6  COIPLIUE                     I  III?                         2  a C S A3 I   I 
1           1 EM1 Os OM  111uAIR=w   3                                                                 :            i M  IL2K. fiU
1-----:                       -I---------l- 95MMW  : u1b01012-lE I 301  IBM)IDI                              I LIM. 2 1 
I2                   2  2  1                          A2 In 2315        I  1I2*             11n56CA-220MAL IFM 2C U -111212112
*ntioim. invru   :   r     '  t2  p            I   I     in 2 III             InIuIuWmnIr   TIN  I          : urT. :bfn2:::2:~::wuIs.u3
lsorttrKtlI r          I                                                                                                                                                              I               005  oo2~i2:::::i:~
-Ca,ua            2~~~~ 2.0    t2.1472 1I.M99  011333   1.5021  1n.6411         I         t. 0.366  I   Ms6 .132.512  L    I.73   L.m  1  41!IIIII                                                    1qwvm   tul  wsii
uIW  1 1      . I  .**  I.         1       2          2. .2               2     . ..I.       2       2.      2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Il t12.2_ I-   I II II 2 I2 II2 Iit 1u1 "i6uts uf 2
Tlotal            2 2.110  2 2.2621  2.90 I 14.17121 1.61962  74.9102           1         t2    S  I.1  10.2101 I 0.0121  LAI t  0.1112  42.10      42I  I II I.     IOhaiu il cut.
Lot SoYg                I          I               1       2                          2          2i                   I                                   22::2122
Ka (iksmcu             I L001    I0.0.0.0632100.00?20.0912109.0?2                   2                             1        1       2       2       .2222:2112
*1.btTItIlog . 2   1  2   2       f        1       2         2          I         2  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.1001  I20.100261.2002I 1         I    I  IfI21t I   M-M2W'2Mi1 m h  m2iKI   2
l4frtrKstW#t           I                                                                                           .2          2    2       2       2221221112 afra wtsAli'p-
-            -. 2I~~~620  *F49~11- 521    I 4.11  100.0012  4.921 2100o.0012   I        I             0100   0.107   *j4907.  0.407.1         2.I   ra~pLao.
MV                     20.3M0    0.30.3.3OM2100.0022  0.303 100.00?2                 2         2         2         2        2       :      .           2:2212221
2.  5IL 2       2        I2oLf  '1 -  'I 20.M               1                           02 1   I  I2.  1   2.  2*                           . . . . . . .21 .
-1lIZ Treat Vohis --       2         2    -          2       I        2       I                                                                               :2:2 I:2I:1222:III
"Leff'-Pij.a            I... `W    1-0.2111I .21221100.0011  0.2122I100.0012          I  0.0102I          I         2io                                 II0.12   2:222I22I22IIIII2I12
Lot TitIliso             I       I       I       I        I               I          I             0.100                    2  .1002 I0.10 I2         I12.222I    122222III  tm.l 
Pk. 3  - ltadia     t0.25t1  L0.20ILI199I00.L01   0.199I100.001.                  2  0.0122 I.                   .                16.6121         121I I I2I2IIII1I2I1II
* -   Islrastrsct ?"M Tut  LO3'5    2 4.349 231M24 2 13=.3   3.044   69.991.         2  0.304  I  4.045  1          t 0.245 2 4.290   4.594 2.                               pi I t 342 I  ks lucItie.
fBlIIai , Pk.2.2              2 2    I                 2       2        II  I                         2I2I                                            I II222IIIte22221              tra. hstjgtwd I
Llno.aCmst.       2 0.453   1 0.42 1 0.41122100.001120.458 100.00M2             I                        0.5001I       I0.50010.500:1            1 I2   2I2I        22III   I II Von.
2I~~~~           20~1 .417 0.324 20.U242100.001 0.11111100.0012                I         1                                                     I 2I 2r:212 I2I12I 21.       I2 I.2
*   1ot~~~~~2     2~ SAN2  25.4252t4.310131.0912:4.3102711.7411                    2  L.333    4.1452    L 0.00   0.24521 4.3902L  I.23            2I......eu              u     .2
2?.2.JTiItgUAlsof.p.      2                         2        2       2 2  1 I                                         2 I  I I  I22 21 I12 I 
lerurtlv         I         I       2                I       I                                                                                    221121222 
Area I sTriadu         21       2   1            2i    i   1 Of  2.6   I  2*L       I                                                                              I.3I       II22I122212 11: 
kA  2 -TAwn          221.01    22.472I22oh721100.0022  2.172I2100.0012            A    I     I                   I                I2        2.1 I1:.22:22I112IIIII
Art n- cdford        2,21.647   I I.M  I21.37222I0.0M12 M1I2210 M.01               1                              I                                . 2. .   . ~. 22.I.22.
*n1i'4 -Tried        I3.LIM    I4.0232  4.02311011.0011 4.023100.0L11              I         I          I         I       I        I       :                        s' :I:  IIIIII
korwiy - PIda          I20.3L52               m   10.22022 10.0110.252 1110.106111   2               1    I         2       I       I                           I'I     1522222I212                           2 I
low             I. ~~0.459   1   IM 0.130 0 1 0100.0011:0. 1320 I100.00121    I          I         I.-       2        I       I       2I I2I I1I21IIIIIII
T,tAl            I1.9    211.435I21I.4152I20..001212.4735I100.002              1  0.101            .2   0.004 I       20.09910.400I2                             IIII2    F "II
It. arrio Casp".                                                              .         2         2         2          2                                  22222?21



I                                                                                                                         I                                 I                        I~~~~~II  
I                .        TAM        I     WIIU.      I 25111- I      I                                  I                                        I.  1  1 1933        2
CORMIC1I~IIACIN          I   CITWTCUST  I NCCUVUENI    ICCIWUUIII mm                      I           I             COST   to   COMP-LETE                         ill9. 1 2                      1  I E I a a   3  I
2---2-----------2~~ PAYREJIF I ITEJITIM "I4O2M    I 13L   1E3MCj0                       I LWL  I  I
2           .1        2                 I    M    IN         I A :ain   I     m    IESCAU-:tWLIUT    FM U C11PWI.22         !ItII    t I It1223I22 1                             I 
2 OUimiU.IKIU  I  P    I  I    I  P               1       m tISII   2     too30  sit 22E3111nE0   TiUt  I   .   I Er;.  UnIJ2S3235FI13:1012322
Comst.hr'So"   Carpitmoz:.20.03O   I 0.0302_0.030 100969FL-0.91S1 I50-0011!                I   0.002  1  0.015  2          2        . 20.015 1 0.4172          II22112L222
Lottltilaq               I          I        I        I                I        I          I          I          2   0.042 1         l*0.04220'.0421                                    2 2 2 2 I22I2I~ 1" 
hoc. hnI       Car)i!M   I  f-0Y1   AL-.091jI.jAU  1.   ZI I                                                                                                  -L   I I2I2I1.92t2I.  1  .i.0.t I2                       .-21    
lmastr,trtues            2                           1        2        2        1                                                                     2        21       12222212 
-mtatildews      I j. f  A95   A,41  j.3.51 .. 01.S, .2.fl1 2. 12.712   0.2315 2.             2  2.561  2.  2400 J. 0.230 2 5.211 I S.S41                 t           - 2-2::.haI?I  met, jaclUimi
I         2        2        2        2I       2        I        .1 I        2          I          2        1        1        I1      .1 12211I2111          1321 1 dii    t   r11213g a0ca1 6 St 2
T otal               I 4.077        .3    334   44.5512  2.9422  53.1112   0.JU   I  0.002  2  2.59?  2   2.5421. 0.23021 5.1192f  51012                   221122   R........ wste acost. of                          I
19. CaORm Estate L2                  *                 -         I        1                       .     2         *l:J                                           I  2.2 2.2  11.11212222  I122 1
Ut Titling                 I~~ 2             I        2                2                     2I 2                           II I2  2                          ll   ts 2 1.2 I 211 I  .t 
L?lI0vftj'~ T-J;T~~IhrO12rr0~.121TO.bTI 6o00i  0.7fi2-  5961 .1007  2  0.051  I                                 I        I 0.051I I.= 2            222   21121         2211 ll        i 
Thf rastrdctwr, - Jayov     2.31   1 2.734 I 2.734 I 1,00.00111  1.6111 I  WM.01           t  0.13581f  0.15322  . 0.0512  0.077 2 0.1223   0.20 I 3.Wm122I11  ----                   ...        '                        
Total             1 2.415   2 2.361 12.11U1 100.00111  1.9572I 1.401                I  0.142St  0.904 it   0.1152I 0.01772  0.192 1  O.191.03212.III..... umini"  WlsIm i"2-    r
20. TnaM  UMn  (LKloclY    2          2        2        1        2       I        2          I          I                              1       .                   1222122212
Lot litia                  2          I        I        I        I       I        I          I          I          2   0.1072 I        I0.107 20.1$7 11   22121   221 IIII22pi"                                             I
-Lot Sru   - S.3. Pirnd     I 4.23     I 20JK  I O.20I ti.001  G2031  100.001I .1                        I          I          I        I        I2                 IIIt  II I I 2 1I22     I2 1. II
Py.nyTJI. trea21a   0.13   I20.122 I0.12 I 100.001120.122 1100.00113                 I          I2         21                          .2       IIIII I III I2I2I_ I2II I   II
-'riffs-itratlire - TAW6        149    11l3'         .392100-21.422- '6    l'f   iiJb   i, 31.71    0.1ay u_  0.142 22   0.217 It   .0.500 I.020t 0.520 I 0.520tI 2  22      1222       2qT "   I2ihu1a1.   ta ts IcI,s
IP21I 20.20    20.04521 *042 .0.0451 0. 0 4510.01                                            a    .               1..       .2     .1   2                       I III   I  IL.;121.2II I        hII    stS9i,1of31i22-l
Total             I 2.079 12Ltd222.0121100.0011   1.72520.2312  ....                    0.1422St  0.2172 01 .0472  0.02021 0.47I 0.0                    III  72             22 2 .  ..  .   shliar.1
t         I                 2       'I        2 .12.                        I          I          I        2        2        2         1     211        2222I2
?rstal - (hrvwy           2 5.217   24.94.931i I         9.49314.l5j1j22.4111               2          I          I          I        2        1       2        12212221I 
loti - (Isfrustj'ubrsl        93.00..1111.9611910.993.69. 891217.m2278.4412                   I 2                   II2                    3                          I2I2 ISI 2   IIIII I11 22 2 2 I
Tzoisl -lows InletS       2 .2.700   2 2.733 1 2.711:1 I100.3012  2.315: P4.M!2             2                                I         I    .         .2        22222122 I  J I2121212212I
TotiI-(1611P2             2 3.57    2 4.193 1  4,&n S2100.*00lI.4.49  11401.0012            I         .I         I.                           I   .  2            1I 2  2222I22  I2I221II2I
1  2  I  2.. ~~~~~~~~~~~2  .2  2    2          2          2          1               .2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  2222I1212I22I2I I2I22I1I 2
TOTAL  -EVA3IOSII          2117.042   U133.31111120.721 I  90.6.1:101.3122 I30.M31    5.075  I  1.N8k  2 28.244  I   9.3491.2.5072140.100 131.4   12  U1.95i 22III2I2I II I              2I2II    2    .3                   2



- 63 -
PHILiPPINES
Uhird Urban Development Project (1821-PH)
CIVIL WORKS CO?IPLETION                                          flNNEX 2
:                      :                 :           ~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNK 1988 
:            E~nElMATED                 P: OJEC   cosT   ---O-------------------------
TOTIAL COStg                        (P 1)             LOI OF        S ACTUSL VS.
(P  )                         Jolt 1988   :COPLETID WORS:
(P N)        PROJECT COST
Sat let.           l  reshaped
:IO11L IUPROVKEIT PBO6BaN                                320.0 :                   392 :         635.450 iJ        555.389                  1I87S
A lcquisition (SitleJ '169 has.)         :110.0                               119           249.593            209.153                 841:
Imirastructure                                          182.0                  202           324.083            296.085                 91S:
Community facilities                                    12.0 :                    10             2.831 :           2.831                100S:
Building Materials Loans                                 9.0                       5      Included          Included
Technical lssitance                                      7 .0                  20.5             12.634            12.634                100S:
Design and Supervision                                   0.0                      35           38.504             34.686                 90S:
lousigt laterials Assistance Progras                     0.0                       0             7.805             5.611                 72S:
- Total Plots                                17,000                 16,150            28,414             25,822                 91S:
- lo. Completed
:8110T1K                                                  216.0        :            342 :        "S51               345.100 :              100S:
idain/misc. eq.                                          0.0                      S1 : 1. q2.5                          O 10            103S:
later Supply                                            27.0                      17           16.S               16.500                 91:
Sanitation                                              34.0                      15           Me1.               14.200                 952:
Drainage                                                56.0                      97           9 9O               90.000                 93S:
Streets                                                 70.0              :        ?111       1  9.6             129.600 :              1112
taintenance Equipmeut                                   18.0                      21 :                            24.500                1172:-
technical lssistance/surveys                            11.0                      24           Ill.6              17.600                 732:
PC1LIC SITIS lAD SB1VICES                                 11.0 :                    308 :         248.297           237.610 :                952:
Land (Pasig and Valesauela)
- Acquisition (80.6  as.)                               19.0                      4:            46.861            43.793                 93S:
-Access                                                  0.0                       0          -
IfrastructQre                                          65.0                    193           176.842            175.074                 992:
Comu nity facilities (74 units)                         10.0 :                    21      Included          Included
Building Materials Loans                                22.0                      25      Included          Included
Techaical lssistance , ay d                              0.0                      0              8.168             8.768                1002:
Design And Supervision                                   2.0                      21            15.826             9.975                 63S:
. .                                                                                                                                             :
Total Plots                                  3,300                  4,500             6,200              6,012                 972:
,----------------------------------  .... .. .. . .... ,........ ...... ......................
I F Fd/a*,,s.1 AeAi.L6caT7    Di' PIHDs FRoV  ,YsM 5ERwe.v   5iFms
rO  AIP AeOf**Tw,7 80aJ nV W *V 951",1  7W Aidi #O& viQC V AfN2%tJd* S d1.



-64 -                                        ANNEX2
Philipplme
Third Urban Developsent Project (1821-PR)
CIVIL WORIS COUPLITIOP
.................................. ............................ .... ...... .. ..  ....... .......... ..... ........ ..
cJsrm4#rEO                    PIOJICT COST   --- --------------------------
TOTAL COST                        (P 5)         VILUE Of        S ACTUAL VS.
(P 1)                        JUt  188   :COEPLIEID WORIS:          1U,o
(P U)        PIOJICT COSt
:                                : ~~~~~~~~~- - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - ------   -- - - - - - -  -- - -- - -- -
SIU lot.    :    A  reehaped
ITATE SITS  AID SERVICES                                 58.0        190 :      190        114t.9              138.63               7M5
:A.  Costructiol Loas::
Off-site Civil Works/Co. fiac                       14.0                   7            1 .2.             13.230
Loans to Developers (Lad Dei.)                      20.0        ag                     54. 3               54.300
*    Core  Units (HIS) (Cielito olly)                     0.0        30: :                   14.0               14.050
- lildlug laterill Loans                            22.0        at          3            1.5                0.000:
*    Techkial Assistanuce                                2.0         IO         6           *0.3               20.280
-    Overhead/Sales                                       0.0:        31                     ;t 1A. i         I/1-
Copleted Units                                           0.0         tl         II           I .2              11.200
Aldsmistration                                       0.0         II:        4:          12.1              IO.00
*    Land (Proportion Developed)                          0.0 :       23:        is:        32.2                lS 510
:3.  PSSP Takeouts                                        0.0         0          SC
:C.  Shelter Lou Prep                                     0.0        0O:         I:
:a.  oi0  Takeout.                                        0.0         0  :      46:                            -
PLOtS   Plauned                :         2,140:  4,201 :  481: 1                                   4.063 : loo;
- Total go. Consphwred                                                                             'S. UO      74UX;
- larketed                                         :;3  1                                                       ViX
:          - Occupied                                          :         :                            : '          U 6        *IZ
-Units Taken Out                                   :                                                  70C:  17;:
:SOLID HASTE IUPEOVEHEIT PI01:                         37.0:            :      40:        43.33:           ft 33   .: IX
la; d                                                  5.0            :        0: 0 .                       0                   C
pilot lEtension Progra                                 7.0:                    4:          3.4   :              7
tVehcles and IEuipment                                21.0                    20 :        29.47 :         11.47 7
.:  T1./tralaini                                          4.0                     2:           1.S5             I. so
:  lateance Depot                                         0.                     10          3.7W6:            3.76C
Ambinistratios                                         0.0                     4          4.51:             4.61:
:AIVILIEOOD                                              84.0 :                 168 :        119.804          IB6.5MB              104%
li-Industrial Part.                                   21.0 :                   0            0.000:                0:
Ivest ts                                  :           32.0 :                 140          156.0tS           166.824
Studies, Traning, TA.                                 31.0 :                   6            6.792             2.317
lqlipmeat                                              0.0:                    1            1.204             1.533:
AdministratioB (icil, design fee)                     Q0.0                    21           15.874 /KrB
Cu. Ageut Disuired (F)
.. . . .. . . .   7 -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -:-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



ANNEX 2
-65 -                                            Page 3
Third Urba u 9elopeu0t Preject (1121-Pt)
Cl!', WOE[S C01PL5tlOP
:               :                                        :                  :          ~~~~~~~~ ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~JUNE  l191:
: PROJECt COST  :--      -----------------------------
:  :TOTAL COST                          :      IP )             AlEo Of    ! I AC fk Is
.(P)                         JBN  9loll   :COIPI1D VOMS:
:(  1)     : PIOJICT COST
-- - - -- - - - ---.- -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -            - - -- - - -.    .. . .. . .
Sit let.           Is reshaped
:tIIUICAL ASSISTAUCI                          :           55.0 :            :      119       /31 .0            /21          :          i      :
RH  Coustr. lid. Studu/P3IEI T                           5.0                    to: 20:    20.0              20               OoY
E:IC fl"tce . Aiagesueat                                11.0                    l16:       18.0       :      18          :    IOO:
TIU [Traflic)          '                                2.0                      3          8  .0             3              / OOX
MIIDI Urha  I  Prep. (ICDP)                           31 .0             :      36         3 .0 e           38               /00Y
tle  Studies Added                                      0.0                    144:
- urbu I Preparation                                  0.0                      4          4.0             4           :
- MIMS (froa UIh           TE) /a                           0.0                      6           .0      :                  :   I00t
:   Sla u ppl g                                       0.0:            :       l4:       4" .0    :    32              :     744r
;&7ifivAisagwpr eoa  ,oA  .                                                       0 530                     34.   :
TO 7W .86.0                                          1,560   I.90D.9  A,61. 6                             92;



MNA AIP ANO SURVCtED SiTES
Ca.LCTION PENFOYMCE
For the aarter Ending Jwue 1988
W PM POECT KNIWUTRD
Form  aer 05
fn: SO-Q-05                                                                                                                                      ANNEX  .3
: ANDUNT    D U E    :MMDITW0LECT9  MINS IMTER                                                 :tET CUCIIM                      W t
PROJECTPI~SE     CIMBIT    i   TOTAL                   :AI2VNMEI                                 .             : AP(
aPERO       :    WT                           LL    t reUNe     W                      N ET         FlP6110      AIWT        ZCP        AD:
PWENTII         kf1        TOT7A L   :PAYIENS  :  INTM9T    0 T HE R    COLLECTIONS 
Phas I        a   92,753.99 :  463,314.1& a  154,128.70 2 81,43e.162i    2,494.00                     70,263.84 a   22.520,47 :   92,724.31     002      262:
Phs  !&III :  313,514.17 : 1.077.171.89: a345,497.72 a193,126.45 2    6,645.07 a                145,766.20     293,401.48 :  176,167.68    53l      161:
shb-total   :424,268.16 :1,540,486.054   499,626.42    274,556.61:    9,099. 07                 2215,971.04 a 52,921.95 2268,891.99           632      171:
2. LEVEIZ               189,073.58 .478,694.088    279,417.55 a   45,061.51 a    8,538.e2              z225,825.22 :       5,172.15 2230,997.37      1222      492:
3. AI     A#W           67,638.57:   117,658.47:   57,290,83 : 23,186.61 :         287.19              i   33,817.63:t      458.70:t  34,275.73       562      29!:
4.MSOWSN  IO    i                 a            a             I                                                                      
Phase I      ,: 444,112.43 21l,953,527.47 2  243,073.22 2   93,830.73 :    4,1"992 :             t  145,042.57 :    2,837.85 :147,88.42         332       82:
Phakse 1I         275,834.71 i 1,533,227.392:  104,683.24 : 33,0t1.54 :    1,917.33 :             :   69,754.37 a     7*3.27 :    0,457.14      26 
Phase III     2261,538.89:t 1,134,263.82 ;  114,275.14 , 33,726.31 :    2,163.36 2                    78,385.95:-      908.06:   79,294.61      301       72:
Phase IV      :171,0M. 14 :  763,933.03 :  146,302.37 : 84,415.30 :    1,125.25 :60,761.72 :                          551.93 2 61,313.65        362       82:
Phas-e V      :372,565.39 a 1,746,079.602:  161,404.60 a 74,25A.92 2       2,135.99 2                  s:65011.69    9,570.86 a 94,582.55       252       52.
Phase VI      2249,016.23 i980,659.29:2  204,193.34    109,873.1           1,443.71 292,815.70 a                      496.49 a 93,37.1;         372      10VA
sak-total   :1,774,115.79 a 8,111,690.60 :  973,932.41 a429,114.73 2 12.985.E9A                    531,832.00 :   15,068.46 a  546,900.46    sly.
5. TNIS*222                                                                                                                        
Phase I       2 47,770.23 :274,531.94 2        9,105.68 0                   537.36 :8;568.32 s                                    8,568.32      182       32,
faas ii           123,455.53 t  518,025.06 a 84,844.92 a 65,398.09          411.86               a   19,034.irt a    5.500.00 :   24,534.97     202      5%:
PNas III      z   14,042.55: .    5,780.68 a 36,852.40 a 22,991.64 :        213.16 :a 13.647.60 2                            .   13,647.60      97%     M87.
sub-total   2185,268.31    828,337.68 2130,803.00:   38,389.73 :         1,2162.36                  41224..89 2    5,500.00 :   48,750.89     2o..     6%:
6. MRAOU2          a195,497.71 a1,050,08.53 a  142,942.22 : 70,104.67 :        2,826.58 2                   0,010.9-7 2    248.92 a 70.259.89        36%      72:
7. WNRI            :252,410.88  1.847,752.75 2  115,785.91 a 67,081.05 :          6849 22 47,8:4,37:    1.4(1.20 a 49,316.57                         202      M2
8. KUL ESTATE    a338,746.64   1.984,327.24 2   2,787.94 a181,661.64 a          6,002.344 a               13.1,042.96     2,225.66 .   M.AB6.62      40%      'A:
'.  So W~TTh       a363.345.54 21,411,343.94 2213M.12,5 2 50,278.72             3. 029, 6A                160,611.75 2    1,618.91 2  162.236.66     45Vi    M22
10. WEST CR41      a   8.626        425,85!5.04 2419.142.tU     t 14.940,82:    .43.2 le              :    2386                      2388            5       M4:



NIIA lIP AND sERYICED SITES
MLCTIcii PuwWUc
For the rkter Ending Jv  1988
t RJECT 1NUTOQIN6
Corm 1Wer 05
fnz 688-401
I   ANOUNT         DUE                            MM  CRLECO  MM          EM                      :                  W T C    U.ECT46  AC     s
_____________________:A~ A:WK I___
s             *             :             s             1             5         .   s             t     TO      t
PRWECtl K             CUIIIENT   :   TOTAL    :              ,  ADVNiEI  t               :                           *  C2 (ENT    a      
:PERD   :  t s                                 FLU    : DELa :  ;                        NET   :  PERIOD  :  MMT X CW 7TA:
: ftlDIAl L   t    DIJE  : t O  T A    E   PAFATS :    I    SITERET  TIE R S :tECTI: *            =                                       a
11.~~~              ~~ a'A                a I  I        I                           I                           2 t           2      
it. W1CADlI       aa:                                                                     
Phase IA          93,48.848 :  5A279.72       46,340.51 i   16,960.97 s    2,197.15               a   29,182.39 :             : 29,182.39        31        51T
Phs I         i   A,316.5 a  760,986.41     50,864.44       35,85.74 s    t,066.02 a              :   13,968.68                    13,68.68      14        It:
Phse II       ;  132,187.92 s  567,014.16 :  126,177.05     74,203.0 J    1,507.13 a              :   50,466.89 a             i   50,466.89      302       518
Pha  III     :  118,072.00 :  487.142.6 :  143,551.00 a   87,039.% :    1t,27.7 2        2            55,223.32:             :   55,223.32      47        6z:
s-total   :  443,060.95  2,408,423.25 a  368,929.00    214,029.1 :    6,058.02a                     148,841.28                  1 :  148,841.28  231     3:
2. T    /F. VIC                 :                           :                           :               
Phase IA                             X        48,414.31*              :                           :   48,414.31 a             :   49,414.31
phase ID      :                              131,579.55:                                              131,579.55:             3  131,579.55
Phase II      a  124,430.73 t  392,265.73 a   82,918.33 :    5,937.95      1 1,486.21 :                75,494.17              a   75,494.31      61       19z:          >
sb-total        124,430.73 i  3s2,265.73 :  262,91M9       5,937.95 t    1,486.21 *                 255,488O3                   255,419.17    20       6fig
13. COA OIDO      :  178,386.51 J  178,396.51 i    8,742.50               s                                 8 8,742.50 t          t    8,742.50        5T st.    IVSnl        D  O0AI
-                                        I 2  2 .     .               ,             ,             .               _7 _              V A           ,fY
SUJ-TOTAL (ZIP)     4.821,875OO tj6,811.67 i 3,794,953.10: 1,594,343.74        54,881.34 a            a 2,145,928.02     84,494.5 2 2,0,322,97        464     lIl a4
B. SITES ISERVCES  :               a            a             2                           :             s              t            :
1. PASI            ,             ,             ,             ,.                          a                           2 ,  ,
Phase I       :1,252,309.89: 2,569,741.76 :1.341,923.19    104,004.06     27,681.73a              :1210,237.40 a   21,97.08a 1,232,24.48        9g        492:
PhsEe I       a  605,242.11 a ,174,090.71    667,208.08:  142,808.01:   10,728.37 a               a  513,671.70      1 0,192.26 :  523,863.96    86%      45t:
Phase Ile     i  363,35.315    797,127.74 2  349,365.82 a   37,249.37 a    7,995.87 a                 304,130.58 :    6,289.62 *  310,420.20   -          392
Phase MI      i  818,632.46 :1,344.670.55 2  880,485.66    1 295,239.96   1 10,606.92 a           a  674,630.78 a    9,48200 a  684,120.78               SIX
i-tot.al         i 3,039,498.1  5,885,830.76 2 3,238,982.A  i *-479,301.40   57.002.89 z              2,702,678.46     47,940.96: 2.750,619.42              47%s  907. A'S5i
*            .             i             .             :             :             :              :            .                 _
2.   OMCIAL  ta.   270,43!.92:   284,421.64 . 1,7M7,309.28  1,448,803.78:    2,391.66 :2110.84 :                                       321,113.84    I.
3. EcGn:c  'b      :   80,913.31      91,264.58  1,6X,715.82  1,435,937.73         2.30                3202,4.45.79 :                  22,545.79                                      Ca|
:            :                           :             2             :                                          ::2
-~JMO 2    a 3,A9.544.0- :6.261,516.98 t 6,650,007.95 a 3,364,042.91:   59,626.85 :3.22M, 33.09:   47,940.96 :3,274.279.05                     96      M.3:        VONT&1~,  
:            :2                          :             :             :              :             :            :                              :
II. H 0 L P            :             :             :                                                                                                                  :
-h  E   Af l)'   3                                  ' a                                       : :              :
.! Pha5E I A f#D   I B SnooW  BE  I*a'e  0(41?ei Pt yA  g0PoppI^



IUFP DIS      _E  *ORDIM  TO 8E06RAPNICAL DISTRIBUTION                                                         ANNEX  4
AS OF IWtCI 31, 1988
P  aOJE C TS              LOAN. AN      D U N1 tE   LE  IC IA RI ES
------- --------------- ----                   ---
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUtIION      NItER    % DISTRIBUTION  (Ni1lion Pesos)    I DISTRIBUTION. I.NDR       2 DISTRIBUTION
Calooca                                173              7.39           5.7665       .      4.03    1,316              5.09
Las Picas                               77              3.29           2.7979              I.96     572               2.21
Ilakati                                153              6.54          25.8398             18.07   5,092              19.70
Nalabon                                 35              1.50           0.7839             0.55      29                1.15
Na6alumq                                92              3.93           6.0323             4.22    1,316               5.09
naila                                  445             19.02          14.0127             9.80   3,591               13.90
tarikipa                  .             98              4.19          37.7675             26.42   2,388               9.24
Nuntinlup                               98              4.19           3.4125             2.39      752               2.91
Navota                                  56              2.39           1.3290             0.93      685               2.65
ParaAaque                                8              3.76           5.4305              3.8b     690               2.67
Pasay                                  121              5.17           2.4485              1.71     948               3.67
Pasig                                  104              4.44           4.0501              2,83     932               3.61
Paterws                                 14              0.60           0.3624             0.25      116               0.43                              00
Quezon City                            500             21.37          23.6222             16.52   4,487              17.36
San Juan                                65              2.78           1.8749              1.31     831               3.22
Taguig                                  96              3.68           2.0044              1.40     502               I.9
Valenzuels                              36              1.54           L.8628              1.30     391               1.51
Outside rltro Nanila                    9               4.23           3.5769              2.50   ' 935               3.62
Total                  2340            100.00         142.9747            100.00  25,842             100,00



URBAN LIVELIUICD FbiANC146 PR6PtA
Summary of Perforwimce
1981-2nd guarter jud
UL? FINANCIRL M M                                                ANNEX 5
Statement of Operations                                           i                                            --
1981         1982         1983          1994            1985             1986             1987             198
inccme
Ngt. & Tecunical
Consultancy           249.930      n.a.         95,890      1,283,742                0                0                0                0
Interest income               0      n.a.       1,079,798     1,338,377                0                0        3,133,306        3,079,3
Processing k Fuiing           0
Fees                        0                         0             0        4,027,754        3,087,267          |             147,447
Fines & Penalties             0                         0             0          189,671          562,907          269,107          210,742
Interest on Investnen         0           0             0             0        1,555,791        3,523,771        3,650,412                0
Total incore            249,930           0     2,075,678     2,622,119        5,772,215        7,173,945        7%14,3           3,438,102
Expenses
Personal Services       167,744           0       571,479       823,076        2,634,357        2,407,446        2,421,691        1,128,642
Naint. & Other                                                                                                                                                 0
Operatin; Expenses     223,151           0       285,806       453,193        1,400,34         2,159,990        1,061,452          68,461
Total Expenses               390,995     263,661       857,285     1,276,269        4,034,720        4,567,436        3,503,143        1,815,103
Net li;onA                 (140.9651   1263,661)    1,218,393     1,345,850        1,737,495        2,60,509         3x'1II,14        1,622,99
: :eee:   c__e_    em=sas    ==e s2  383U2U2    U88U3U_                                  _UUUUi              _
TAc                              0          0             0             0                0                O                O                0
INCOtWe   1VT-A 5A0 (q7.q7) (a                  t)   I,21*393    I. 34U.B0           I.7374A'5    2.4".  o09    3aR,Ci,  1               ,4  h ,&Z , *
Eevue  (P'ooo)                                                         53,655           63,;76           93,&11         103,139    II/, os0                     .
Afro^" az aDnY  na    ^            "^             2.5'h           ~~~~~~~~~~~2.17l%  2.0X            3.VX            2.AX.
INP1 TWn   AWtE                                                         6o.4%           .23.1             0 .77X           3AtI a"NutieD  
REAL AeRN                       NA          NA                         (                (FO.X)  I03X                                       (C.O%)
eNOTEt
I4D)CO'6 AER1A?eO
DMPAN aI.- 4 aGurgato
k   % '% Am. ApA4ov. is
EGkOsTY AWxr. COA*RC' ?



s~~~~~~~~~; 5!_;x~-!~                                                  33S #    ";o">^_S _        
--- --- ---                               --- .  0                                        i-
_~~~~~1  _                      rz    gm         a   Sa_3Z9a~                  -  ~Z
-        -    -    - -    -    - -    -       -    -    - -    -    - -    -    -
-             - 0 - --    - - - - - -001 -  -                                                              --
- - -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    --- -- ---              --
r,'                                     I
8              =                      ~~~~~~~s
-        ---        - - - - -t - - -  @- - - -' - -........ - o . -  - - - - -  !-- - -5 
a'~~~~~~~~~~i
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -   --             - -     -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -
jj !Z  .        _                 a ,   -0  _ O     ^-  C.                                              - aCD,  0,  O   C  _
.-                               us                                        - .
__ __ _ - -_ _ - -_ - -                                                           ___            ____ -               .. - ---------                               ----------                 
,*S _,,,__e,,@U_-_. ,.s  vGO_4__Xt__  is                            b:
-    - -      - -      - -    -   -- - - - - - - - - - -    -@  -      -                                           
-.                 _                 a4 a 4 v .l ? r  p  p .    _, F a  _ io 0 0     "  Aa3.  |
kI  I a :-,;     Baigg              15   Bm s o       -  -                           - n o o|
-- -------------------   -                                        .0.0-a'.)           .--..
- - - - - - - - -   - -  -    - -  -    - -  -      -- -   -  -    - -    -  -    - -
r~~~~~~~~~~
it~
d - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     - -     - -   - -                                          
so
9 xam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
. _____                                              __ ......................._____ ____________ .0.............................. 14
.'-I                 a           .0E!-S    i         
.             _    _    _    _  _    _    _    _    _ _    _        _    _    _ ,  _    _    _    _  _    _    _    _    _
a  'tS-         t    e   _     |  ;
. _______ _____________________ _
_          _-.                                            OL.s. a  ..a - ~W r -
9 XaNsW 



2 ~         l*                             .-       -                     
He"t   ' I  .  _                                                        -      
ge { "6D                                           -                       A
'                                 -a o s ow 8 _a 
I,'.      cn                        4            -4
-                                    -   -   -     -    -   --   - - N 
a              L            a  _              t T
I   .         ..                                            I .o  
i o o o o I    -g  !
- - -       -     --     --- 
i 4          .                            4*B
*----         ---       --
-- ~---     -         --      - --  --                 --
I             ....A                                     
--------          ----------(dI         --
a---       -    -    - -       -    -    -           -
I                                                      - " s l l i
X~ ~~~             - - -               -  - - - -        f -# -
A      J         i t<>         ;s  _. mM          8          R  
!S             I
I  b " ! WI      *1                    WI
6 %                                               -    -
d.h.   2Int                                      --    -     -     -    .g -    - - - - -
,   -          -         -      -                           e
a   a.                                       .... .
l ~~~~~~- -    =                
a^4o,  I                                               -S0  X  S @f   -  *  IL -
9   - - - - - - -  $ -       - **. --  -    -    
9 XaNNIV                                    -1



's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'U
',     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -   -     -     -     -     -     -   -     -    ,-     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -f     -     -w     -     -     -     -     -     -     
X g s g N iS  S   S  wS 20 S9 9 !9                 S aS Yi  a                  
it  'a 'a   'a a   it itsiti s as a s a                   ss as9                        
.is                    as a            a 
kr ititit it's  'a    aw a -        ki        t k                f;         i
88~~;3                am   "8              88        
_~~~~~~~~~~ --v 
-  -   -      -       -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - -- - - - -      - - - - - - -
8 88 88  88 g8 88 88 88 88 88 o8 88                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
~~~~~~t                                        _                 .................           .................
si             s2 aX  3% ZX                                                      _9 9zl
ol              SS  ii  gio  ii                                                          .        
_ _ _ __ _ _  _-                       - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -__  _ - _ -
~~~-- - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - ------ ..................... o- -- -  
 ~  > X _                                        ZS               -  -   



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - 
* ;'. ~~~~~~~~~~                                   1. : 
o -ssssss "- - - - - - -                  s              !-         
-     - - -     -. _- -    -                                  S- *
g~~~~~~~~~  ___________________   ____ i
t- - - -  -  ---                 -   -  -     ---  -
-- --  - ------ -                                       - - -
-  --    -  -   --   -   -   - -  -   -  --    -  -       ---  --   -        - -
tfzw:  - iait    v3 a !U         .8 3
N:-------            - -8ty8J  -0  - - -   - - -8 --- - -8  -  -  - -   2---   --- -  1 
- -.                                                    - -Y -|0 - -- -a                     
-    - - - - - - - - - - -  -    -    -    -    -    -    - - - - - - -     -  -
I       3~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-                                                      - - - - - - - - ---   - - - -     -I
::$:i_f:; igi    i Y_i ta-ac      is:               i tai    ~       -  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    -    - -    -   -            U ;- -
--     -   -  -   --r-       -  -   -   -  ---.- -          - --     - -    -  -   -   -
_l~ ~~~~~~~S _ _____________ ____. _.. :1 
o o - .gY 0-   - - - - - - -   - - --
L   N                                                   2 EL
L~~~~~a- X                       - L -~-~



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -  - -
? i RR ! X  'ga
tsa~~~-~1                          ,      1 wu- O 8S j   .-
_    ZZZ&  *Z,a    ZZ-   aU.~                                N          s.  -
.0~ ~~~~ ~ ~ -w .3.                    _~ 
1 jq   -     1ae.-.             -      IIw  
- -     ~- -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - --"- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     -  -  - .....    -  - - - - - - - 
sia~~ ag                                         s                          .....W 33  U .....-- 
os-l  18_8
ttii! tto                                               ap oO            s               
it it              88 a 2 it                                      it __
IE LiE   ELIn Mo                          P                       r
33  33             23  33             32  33                 '. i  88 33' 3
ig ~   ~ ~ k           il3^  ..il ..         i    t -^i - -                     _--
-----4-----                        ---                            -------- - -
IS3     *3*         33 _3                   3             - .-
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----  - - - - - - - -
a:  :a*a 



-< - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -        ---    
.U.&SF.*   I          .                   Ui                   
em-2 ' Z
3~~~ - - - -      - - - - - - - - - - - - -* -
~~~4 33 33 3 3Ki3 -
 ~-   1- -----------    ----s
ip  A           o                                                        AS
j s,      -         - - - - i
I                                              iM 
!~~3   oS   igzs
0* - _ - - - - - - -  - - - - -- - - - -
*        .f                                    -4 i*                        3 53=~        
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.... -                 o-                                N I-oo
I ~         .   a.        I       .-4          nlU           3
, A.......               .. ..  ..  ..... .... .. ..  .   e
*      -'-
0W            0 a       4 3.0 en a-q      =      e
v ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ -             a..       ac                       e
-  SLa   - 
L~~~~~~ X



- 76 -
PART III
SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
As the government's PCR is relatively complete in its data presentation, this
Part III will cross-reference Pare II (with page number) where information has
already been presented.
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title    Purpose                    Approved   Status   Comments
Manila Urban   Upgrading of Tondo Foreshore       1975  Completed   PCR issued;
Development    and Phase I of Dagat-Dagatan                          PPAR No. 7092
Project        Serviced site project                                 dated 1/88.
Second Urban   Extension of serviced sites        1987  Completed   PCR issued;
Development    and upgrading to regional                             PPAR No. 7092
Project        cities                                                dated 1/88.
Regional       Extension of urban infra-          1983  Underway    see para 1.01
Cities Dev't   structure and services to                             to 1.07 of
Project        four cities including a                               Part II for
Shelter component with NHA                           comments
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item           Date Planned       Date Revised          Actual
1. Identification           NA                    NA              1978
(EPS)
2. Preparation              NA                    NA              1978/9
3. Appraisal Mission        NA                    NA              June 1979
4. Loan/Credit Negs         NA                    NA              Feb. 1980
5. Board Approval           NA                    NA              March 25, 1980
6. Loan Signature           NA                   NIA              June 2, 1980
7. Effectiveness            NA                    NA              Sept 25, 1980
8. Closing            December 31, 1984    Dec 31, 1985           Dec 31, 1987
Dec 31, 1986
9. Completion         June 30, 1984                               June 1988 for
most components
except PSSP
(see Part II)
Comments: Issues raised at each stage of project cycle
During preparation concerns were raised that in order to provide basic services
to slum and squatter communities, the programs would have to be developed



- 77 -
quickly and be sustainable.   But rapid expansion entailed risks related to
management  and coordination.    Though  the  agencies  had  mobilized  staff,
additional staff with experience would be needed for contract supervision and
management. In addition the participation of private sector as developers was
a new initiative under this project and as yet unproven. The project was also
to assist small businesses through an as-yet untried approach.
During super-vision issues concerned the complexity of the project, the weak
capacity of MMC and cost recovery (pricing, sales and collections).   See also
Parts I and II which both refer extensively to other issues raised during both
project preparation and at various steps of implementation.
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
Semester Ending        Appraisal      Actual       Actual as %    Actual as
Estimate                     Estimate       % of Total
June 30, 1980             3.5
December 31, 1980         4.6         .. 05         22.8%            1.6%
June 30, 1981             7.3          3.51          49.5%            5.2%
December 31, 1981        14.4          8.42          58.5%           12.5%
June 30, 1982            25.2         13.57          53.8%           20.2%
December 31, 1982        37.9         17.57          46.4%           26.2%
June 30, 1983            51.2         20.61          40.3%           30.7%
December 31, 1983        64.2         28.49          44.4%           42.5%
June 30, 1984            72.0         31.39          43.6%           46.8%
December 31, 1984                     34.85                          51.9%
June 30, 1985                         41.25                          61.5%
December 31, 1985                     44.98                          67.0%
June 30, 1986                         48.38                          72.1%
December 31, 1986                     50.20                          74.8%
June 30, 1987                         53.36                          79.5%
December 31, 1987                     56.19                          83.7%
June 30, 1988                         62.08                          92.5%
December 31, 1988                     67.10                         100.0%
During implementation, US$1.0 million was cancelled in November 1985.  The last
disbursement was made on July 11, 1988 and the undisbursed loan balance of
US$3,895,100.12 was cancelled effective July 12, 1988.



- 78 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (Key Indicies)    See Attachment 1 of Part 1.
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Proiect Costs
Table IV.l on page II-8 of Part II presents project costs in pesos and in
dollar equivalent as of appraisal, as formally restructured in 1985 and at
project completion.
B. Proiect Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Funding Sources
Cet tral Govt. Contribution
World Bank Loan Passes on as             passed on as
Total  Loan   Equity Budgetary  Loan   Equity Budgetary  Project
Cost                Appropri-                Appropri-  Revenues
ation                   ation
Zonal Imaprov. Prog.(ZIP)
Metro Manila Irfrastru.
Utilities & Eng.(HMINUTh)  DATA FOR THIS TABLE HAS NOT BEEN SUPPLIED BY GOVERNMENT AS OF THIS DATE DUE TO
CORRECTIONS BEING MADE BETWEEN FUNDS RELEASED AS EQUITY AND BUDGETARY
Sites end Services                       ALLOCATIONS (SUBSIDY/GRANT).
Solid Waste Management
Livelihood
Technical Assistance
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits (Key Indicies)
See Attachment 1 of Part I.
B. Economic Impact
Component                   SAR Estimate                   Actual
and Underlying Assumptions                                 Rate of Return (ROR)
Zonal Improvement Program             42%               31% using imputed rental values
based on imputed rental                             33% using sales prices
values in project area                              (.5ee comments below)
continued next page



- 79 -
Component                SAR Estimate                Actual
and Underlying Assumptions                           Rate of Return (ROR)
MMINUTE
based on imputed rental        15%             Borrower used a different
values in project area                         methodology, obtaining an
'economic' ROR based on health
benefits averaging 70% for
streets, 27% for drainage, 34%
for sanitation, and 150% for
water (see comments below)
Serviced Sites
based on imputed rental        26%             27% (see comments below)
values in project areas                        (compare with 19%-26% for
Urban II)
Livelihood
Methodology not described      48%             See comments below.
in the SAR; not available
on file
Comments
ZIP: Part II of this PCR indicates no economic rate of return (ROR) was
calculated for ZIP sites by the PCR team. However, the ROR on ZIP sites was
prepared as part of the Housing Sector Loan appraisal by a different Department
of NHA.   Details are presented in Annex 15 of the Staff Appraisal Report on
Housing Sector Project (Loan 2974-PH), Report No. 6997-PH. In addition,
following submission of this PCR, NHA also subsequently calculated rates of
return for all ZIP sites.   However, the methodology utilized represented a
blend between an economic and financial rate of return, and is therefore not
presented in this report.
MMINUTE: At appraisal the Bank calculated the economic rate of return based
on property value increases, typically utiliz5ng imputed rental values.   At
completion, the MMINUTE staff utilized a more subjective method based on (a)
the time cost of illness, (b) costs of medical expenses, and (c) economic costs
due to premature death. A separate volume is available on the project file
covering MMINUTES calculations. The very high returns obtained for MMINUTE are
therefore not comparable to those prepared for the SAR.
SERVICED SITES:   Part II also indicates no return was calculated for
serviced sites by the PCR team.  However, as noted above, the ROR on Pasig
(Karangalan) and the de la Costa site of PSSP which had been completed, was
also calculated by the Finance Department of NHA in late 1987. As occupancy
was low at Pasig, imputed rental values were utilized for the immediately
surrounding area serviced to a similar standard as Pasig, with actual costs of
the Pasig site which was at that time physically complete. While imperfections
thus exist in the methodology, this was considered the best possible at this
point in time, given the low occupancy rates and thus incomplete nature of the



- 80 -
Pasig investment (see Part I for discussion). Details are presented in Annex 15
of Report No. 6997-PH.
LIVELIHOOD:    Though  an  internal  ROR  was  calculated  on  this  component  at
appraisal, it would appear more appropriate to judge the success of this
component using commercial financial criteria, such as its real return on
equity. See Annex 5 (page II-54) of Part II, and discussion under Part I.
C. Financial Impact
See pages II-21 through II-28, Figure VI.1 on page II-23, and Annexes 3, 6 and
7 of Part II of this report for financial results of the various components of
Urban II, and Part I for highlights.
D. Studies
Study                           Purpose at Appraisal                 Status          Impact of Study
MMC Institutionalized Strentthenini
1. Management Review        To identify areas where              Completed       See Text of Part I
MMC should build up
capabilities.
2. Physical                 To provide physical frame-           Completed       See Text of Part I
Planning                  work to base regional plan-
S. Capital Investment       To establish a rational              Completed               -
Folio                     basis for public sector
planning, and project
prioritization.
4. Financial Systems        To improve financial mgmt.           Completed
system of MMC and the 17
municipalities under its
jurisdiction.
S. Urban Land Management   To study open land utilization        Completed               p
and light rail stations
6. MetroManila              To establish a master reference system    Completed
Physical Survey          for development projects.
Other Studies
7. Tax Mapping                  To increase local govt. revenues     Completed
in Real Property Tax and upgrade
real property tax administration.
8.  Construction                To review and make recommen-         Completed
Industry                    dations to assist the industry
9.  Team Traffic Management     Improvements in traffic flows in MMC    Completed            U
10. Preparation of Urban V      Project Preparation for WB financing    Completed
11. Solid Waste                 To review master plan for solid waste    Completed           -
Improvement                 & prepare implementation of SWIP.
12. Prep. of (PREMIUMED)        To prepare & package PREMIUMED       Completed
Municipal Development Projeci.
13. RCDP ProJect Preparation    To propae Regional Cities            Completed
Development Project
Comments:       See Part I for comments on the usefulness of these studies.



- 81 -
Table 7: Compliance witE Loan Covenants
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URIA" DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1821-PH)
PROJECT COKPLETIOU REPORT
Comoliance with Loan Covenant.
Section          Activity                                          Remarks
3.01    To provide, promptly as needed,           Govt. counterpart funding proved problematic
tba funds, facilities, servlces           due to the economic downturn which occurred from
and other resources required for          1983-1986; requirLng extension of the project.
carrying out the project.
3.08    To acquire land and rights Ln             Land acquisition in terms of obtaining * writ of
reapect of land &a needed.                possessLon was satisfactory, enabling NHA to proceed
with civil works. TitlUig, however, encountered serious
delays which obstructed sales and cost recovery in some
ZIP sites and 20X of Paslg.
3 09    To prepare a three year rolling            Satisfactory.
program and review the program
-anually vith the Bank.
4.03    MEC, NRA and TRC to prepare                Satisfactory, though audits were sometimes late.
audit of the project accounts             SOE statements were compLeted satisfactorily where
annually                                  required, though disbursements were suspended on
one occasion due to lack of an SOE audit statemnt.
4.05    To make NMA's method uf                   Revised; satLsfactory. It vas agreed that pre-
plot allocation and to make public       l1iinary pricing vould be announced to the
announcement of said conditions,          coomnity including a 20X contingncy. Final prices to
methodology and prices prior to           be announced upon coompletion without contingency. Thus
start of construction,                    prices would be publiely announced, but NHA protected
from the risks of premature pricing.
4.08    To operate and maintain the               Mixed performance. Maintenance is the responsibility
infrastruCture constructed under          of MWSS, MERALCO and local goverments and is
the project                               generally below desirable levels.
4.09    To ensure that ZIP plots are               Satisfactory.
offered to beneficiaries as
freehold tLtles within 5 years
4.10    MPSS to assume debt obligation of         p10.0 M or 71X of total expendutiures on sanitation
(c)(i)  combined sewers under HNiUTE              accepted by MWSS. FinAl package of balance avaiting audit.
4.10    MWSS to operate and maintain and           Satisfactory vith respect to operation and maintenance
(c)     assum debt obligation in respect          of water and Beverage facilities. Not satisfactory
(iii)   of water supply, Sanitary sewers          vith respect to assumption of related debt for MKINUTE
and sevage disposal facilities            infrastructure, which has not been transfered.
4.10    #HC to operate and maintain and            Satisfactory with respect to assumption of
(c)(1v) assam  debt obligation in respect         operation and maintenance responaLbilites by local
of surface drainage, public toilets       governments. Debt obligation of MH$NUME not transfered
roads and maintenance equlpment           due in part to the legal limbo of MC.



-82 -
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project        Planned           Revised            Actual
Cycle           HQ       Field    HQ       Field    HQ        Field
Through Appraisal       NA          NA    NA           NA    NA       NA
Appraisal through
Board Approval          NA          NA    NA           NA    NA       NA
Board Approval
through Effectiveness   NA          NA   1NA           NA    NA       NA
Supervision             NA          NA    NA           NA    98       63
TOTAL:         NA          NA    NA          NA    NA        NA
Note:   MIS only gives data from FY 1982 (i.e. July 1981) through project
completion in FY89 thus we have been able to extract only supervision data to
which an estimation was added to cover the missing April 1980 - July 1981
period.   For SPN 16.0 staff weeks and for HQ work 6.2 staff weeks were
estimated for inputs from April 1980 to June 1981 and have been added to the
MIS figure of 138.8 staff weeks. Thus it is estimated that 161.0 staff weeks
were spent on supervision activities.
B. Missions
Stage of       Month/   No. of   Staff Weeks Specialztn  Performc    Types of
Project        Year     Persons   In   Total Representd   Rating      Problems
Cycle                            Field                    StAtus
Through
Appraisal      NA          NA    NA    NA        NA       NA             NA
Appraisal      NA          NA    NA    NA        NA       NA             NA
through
Board
Board          NA          NA    NA    NA        NA       NA             NA
through
Effectiveness
Note: Since MIS data only gives information starting from FY 82, i.e., July
1981, we were only able to get data on Supervision to which we added our
estimate for the early period not included in MIS.



- 83 -
Supervision
I           04/80        3     2.0   6.0       N.A.         1
II          11/80        4     1.0   4.0       N.A.         1
III         06/81        3     2.0   6.0       N.A.         1
IV          11/81        2     1.0   2.0       N.A.         N.A.
V           03/82        3     1.0   3.0       N.A.         1
VI          09/82        5     1.0   5.0       N.A.         1
VII         02/83        1     1.5   1.5       N.A.         N.A.
VIII        08/83        4     1.5   6.0       N.A.         2
Ix          02/84        4     1.0   4.0       N.A.         2
X           09/84        4     1.5   6.0       N.A.         2
XI          04/85        3     1.5   4.5       N.A.         2
XII         11/85        3     1.0   3.0       N.A.         2
XIII        06/86        3     1.0   3.0       N.A.         2
XIV         11/86        2     1.5   3.0       N.A.         2
XV          08/87        2     1.5   3.0       N.A.         2
XVI         01/88        1     0.5   0.5       N.A.         2
XVII        04/88        1     2.0   2.0       N.A.         N.A.
XVIII       07/88        1     0.5   0.5       N.A.         2
Total                                 63.0
C. Costs (if available from MIS)
Data is not available from MIS.



- 84 -                      ATTACHMENT
Rtepubhik of the Philippineso                        Page l of 9
_vPARYMIAN T O PUBLIC WORKS AND HIGHWAYS$
Metro Manila Inf rastructureUtilities
and Engineering Program (MMINUTE)
3rd Fl"t. MMINUTE ldg., IEP Compound
E.Jacinto St.. Univesity of tle Philieppifes,do.eln City
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
26 April 1989
Mr. Alexander Nowicki
Division Chief
Cperations Evaluation Department
World Bank - IBRD
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
S i r:
RE: PHILIPPINES - Third Urban Development Project
(Loan 1821-PH)
Project Carpletion Report
In connection with the draft Urban III Project Canpletion
Report (PCR), we are forwarding herewith our comments particularly
those items peotaining to the NMINUTE Program which will also serve
as clarifications and/or confirmation of sane vital issues and data
information.
We hope that with these coaments, your DepartTent ould be
able to evaluate the extent to which the whole Urban III project has
achieved its objectives.
We would appreciate your sending of the final copy of the PCR
to Engr. DANILO C. TRAJANO who is currently the Project Director of
the proposed Second Municipal Development Project or NDP II (MINUTE
II-FRINGE Program) under the Departnent of Public Works and Highways.
Thank you and warm regards.
Very truly yours,
S; J 1
. ZENCARNCM
Undersecretary
Attachments: As stated



ATTACHMENT
- 85 -                 Page 2 of 9
MIINUTE PROGRAM
COMIENTS ON INTEGRATED PCR FOR URBAN I II
April 24, 1989
PART I  -                BANK VERSION
1.0  PAGE 1-8, Item 28
1.1  Bank interpretation  that MMINUTE  I  covered  un-
tenured areas is not correct. This matter was al-
ready clarified  with Ms. Donna Haldane during the
PCR meeting dated February 22, 1989. What was not
done was a special assessment of MMINUTE improved
areas. Besides the latest GOP reassessment of
properties was way back in 1981 or 1982. Attempts
were made by GOP to update/undertake reassessment
in 1985, then 1987 but were deferred again under
the  present   government.  Reports   g4therrd  by
MMINUTE PMO from MMC-FINANCE (Assessment Service)
indicate that there are plans by DOF to issue
guidelines for the updating/reassessment of pro-
perties this year, 1989, and to be implemented in
1990. Critical issue, however, is on the effi-
ciency of  real property  tax  collection  by  the
respective LGUs.
1.2  Nevertheless, as  reported in  MMINUTE PCR,  there
are hopes  to capture  indir-ect cost  recovery  of
MMINUTE improvements, once the reassessments are
updated and calli?ction efficiency by LGUs are un-
dertaken. Efforts have been made by MI.INUTE PMO to
communicate with MMC-Finance and DOF regarding
follow-up of tax mapping activities undertaken in
Urban ITI, especially those areas covering MMINUTE
improvements. It is the objective of MMINUTE PMO
to ensure  prospects for better cost recovery nea-
sures under its Phase II Program based on lessons
learned under its Phase I.
1.3 Wit regards to comparison between ZIP and MMINUTE
as to unit cost per dwelling basis, it see-is that
it is  not really  comparable because  MMINtJTE  ii5
only  concerned   witt  existing  rights  o1' way.
specifically, basic  infra services and on tenured
sites while ZIP is concerned with total area pro-
vision/improvement and on untenured areas. MMINUIE
development costs is thus computed on a per
hectare basis and not on per dwelling unit because
as said  earlier, MMINUTE  is limlited  only to up-
gr-ading basic infrastructure while ZIP -overs a
total upgrading.
2.0 p.1-12, on MMINUTE
a.   the 15 priority areas during u-ppraisal refers
to 15 LGUs. Actual service area coverage in-
clude all the 4 cities and 13 municipalities
of Metro Manila.
b.   The  300,000  persons  targetted  during  ap-
praisal were direct beneficiaries.



- 86 -                             ATTACHMENT
Page 3 of 9
Actual MMINUTE Calriilatit-X,s  for  1.4M  ben-ficiiArieJ
ar oi as follows:
SECTORS              DIRECT         INDIRECT         TOT,AI
(PERSONS)   (PERSONS)   (PEF;:.OtqcS'
Water Suppl;/              74,7,32           lC,  :3        93,41'
Ganitition                 33Z,871            8,4S6;         42,3r9
Drai nagt,.'
Streets                 758.548            50', 969R      . 264,24i.
TOTAL                  E367,151           532,8A9   1,4n.(090Cn
Me'thudology of Ca1lculation ;:
Water  Supply   and  Sanitation              tntal nnr.  i-f rgl.-
t   Ed    member          of
r C1 t i n; .l  
2O%  f nr u rIrc'yl stcr c-d
a,nd  k,s3 1 1   n *.   
Drainaye  and  Stre,rets                   Af.'-fisftf t'd t.ed  r
mI 1 ph 1  .d       
Jensit1  where,  Affec
t ed   Ar edo   -   I . l.j Iu 1h
of    &S t r t'I t 'Lir al    ege
improved   multiplied
by  75.01M,   nmean ng,
the      bE:rief i c i ar i es
rwithin-  thz- 75'.n  mn uf
1.ljpr Lved     o....i,'al I, y
ur  dt  inXk-o.
C.    iFl ,eas   refer   to  1.3,   item  1.0 nf  ,a-fc:ecited
cc.mxents.
*i.    Pleasie refer   to  1.1,   ite-n  1.0 orf  th, jrcrr'-
.- i ted   c ninmpn F .
t?.    11Only 16   mni t s. of   ptublic  toilet-.  dur i r,  :.p
pr.isa] .  Tr. re;I-.ed    ,.. 'II  L*it.    if , nmflii t od
PSFs. P1 r-a:,c-'    ef rit fco  att actjdf F_rre    1   on
comparal:l--         nly.            *f     lhs-a           ar,d
f i n- an: al   t_ ar tj t,    bc t wee-  ti Appr - I S il    -r ti
Actual .
f .    Fi .   1 ..-U  TL&urrins.-i
MWSS has   1   - t'p L. I wr 1:1, Ph    I ,0C), ,9.0. 4n bo ed
*n  thti    fir-.t bttrh h,f complt'tvd wa t .t  ,tLppl /
Ft t-.oJ   1-'; toit ied   over  tr,  MWSS  a.si.tnirt i rig  tu
P1-,245,FR7-5.49. Thc   ]a..   b-itch   nf . ,;npl.tod
. i-er  tuppl y   prc)jort- wrc th   F3. 933  M I urrned
o\.ei to   MWSS  i -.  *,et  tO Ul-,der l.o  f lnal  fir,an -
ciAl  Alnd1t bty MW'2.
MMC   has       7 3j n-c7   documoprit s.'c-.. r t 1 f i c ste;   -f
tutrno\ ot /&Ca C epttarCe- Of compl ^tted  ir ai rn,r  .-nJ
streett  as   wel]           :-niitatino   ptojoct_z  but
the  unrertain-y   of th-, f.om,-r.i-,i.in  1-e . 
crittcal  is;ue  a-; tc. whc  -.hni-td  t f  1! y  a   -iiio
f inanci 1  1ibI i Ab  ILti-..
g.    Pr ospects  .ni-   co'-t re- vn.er ^ trhiroiigj   indirELt
means of   inrrFrass-d  pt oper-ty values are h;pcd



ATTACHMENT
- 87 -                             Page 4 of 9
to  br'  -:rch i t-fved  tht nrwjh  the  .- f   r ts/pcil icy  of
&iOr DOF  I.co   u aprl J e r  A as no.mrt  i,f pr -,per t iF;
Llt,-,          LI,'> :r  hu-  iwpI-mrtited  h,  tC990. C..t.lle,
t iciri   ffICIC'r-c y   IL   thUs   t r ltir&;]    tco   tl t I
ma,ittl- y   ix c ti  Vf'  . o ~    .t   r  .L ;er /.   ri.tt,   'j c f I --
nite1 y,  I t L a n    .tl l l   be k-    rhie'v d   becau:e
MMINUTF   impro veement-           werec-   restt irted         tn
t -r LbIr etl ,i tt9.i
FART  T I                                    ROFP VFRSIOUN
,t-   p.  TT  - R, tnt MMJNIITF
For  19EE, US  $M  ColU nn  -i'ritild  he:
TOTAL MM TNUTE                                      20. 4 1o
Civil  WorIs                                                14  010(
Topo  Sur veys                                               0r. 0Cxo    -s-I1me
Desiigri/SLAper VJ'.i on  (TA)                               I1, 40
Mai nt Pnernce  F11r pfr,fr,t                                1 '40       .amo
(Adminri5tr dJ or)                                           1. V30     c.ame
(Minor  Equiprnt-nt 'Misc.)                                 1.390       sa InT-
2.0   p. TI - 25
t nc)t nrat e=.
W4ater  Suppl >       P t 6. 495*
Sani t -t i on     - P14. 171 *
*        0P.3C09  M   f ur   u o it  tof .   unit t-. W.uter  Stor aigt TungI
C.haryeablk? 1 ayai ri-.  :crn ;    _.tti on /FiMC  c.c..t   r e-:,p on---
bi lit /,or  financial  1 i ,L,i J i ty.
3.0   p. II -- '.6 Tthird  Far tyrapht
* . u tIttl tj fe
The  MMINUTE  "ut tom--up  *Appr r.tfch".  (DvI lt ft the              in
brtiiom- c2
PART  II T
1.0   p.  TIT   - 6
for  it cn      4 . 10   MWSS    it f  MMC   r         r e iponI.t,i I it.ie-
p]eease  refctfe    to  comment:  malentioned  in    tIlm   F (-f
sect.tiot  2.0 of  thii .:.m,ment on  financial  1trnfovel-r 
Prrtpared 17P y:
MiA. MI DIED  A.   Tl I A R             ORTURO r.  RANn
MM T Ni ITF - PMO
PCFR  C omntittreet
oted  B4      i I T4y  19S9
Noted  By:,Q                         g    
7-     rct D I r k?C oz



CONPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF PHYSICAL TARGETS
PROJECT    a MMINUTE PHASE I
OBJECTIVE t UPGRADE THE QUALITY OF- LIFE OF LOW INCOME DEPRESSED AREAS IN NETRO MANILA THROUSH THE
PROYISION OF WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION, DRAIKAGE AND STREET INPROVEHENT PROJECTS                     ANNEX I - PCR
PAGE I
--------------------------------_--_--_--------------------------------------------------------------------------r ----------------
aAPPRAISAL ESTIMATES (II)ACTUAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS(2)  t   t OF (2) TO (1)
PROJECTS/       R-----------------------R---------------------------I---------------------I              REMARKS
CDMPONENTS      a DESCRIPTION aCOST (PM)s  DESCRIPTION   aCOST (PM) i PHYSICAL aFINANCIALs
------------------------...-----------------------------__-------------------__---------------------------------------------------
A. WATER SUPPLY       :365 Units OF s 24.230 3203 Units IF    a    5.924 a              I         aDecrease in targets due to a
:36 Units WSTa    -        9 Units bST/Dht   10.262 &       565  a   67t  a
ssupplied by :                            s---------- I                    a- Lack of available sites
:48 *obile   t                            a   16.186 t                     I a
:tankers      a                           I          I                     i a- Non-cooperation/non-acceptabi-
2  3      8                1                       a         a  lity to pay
s         a                a          a            a         a- Indifferent attitude by the
s                       a                 a          a           a         a beneficiaries
a         a                a          a            a         a- Affected by MUSS developments
a          a                     s a- Preference for individual
5         a                a          t            a         r connections
:         a                a          :            I         a-Mobile tankers was eventually
a  a  a    a           a         a scrapped due to failure of the
a         a                a          :            a         a scheme in one of the pilot pro-
aa                          a           t            ject areas, alternative was for
a             a         a                 a          a           a         a construction of deepuell to
a:I                                   a            a         aunserviced outlying areas.
a  a      a                           a            a t       : Lesser in operations and
a             a         a                 a          a     :               a maintenance cost.                      m 
a             a         a                 a          :           a         :a0
a             a         a                 a          a           a         al



COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF PHYSICAL TARSETS
PROJECT    : MMINUTE PHASE I
OBJECTIVE I UP6RADE THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF LOW INCOME DEPRESSED AREAS IN PETRO hANILA THROU6H THE
PRDVISION OF WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION, DRAINAGE AND STREET IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS                       ANNEX I - PCO
PASE 2
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__----------..---------------------------------------
:APPRAISAL ESTIMATES (1):ACTIIAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS(2)  I    t OF (2) TO (t)  I
PROJECTS/        ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------ IRE"ARKS
COMPONENTS        DESCRIPTION ;COST (PM):  DESCRIPTION   :COST (PM) :  PHYSICAL iFINANCIALs
9. SANITATION            16 Units BSF:  30.337   41 Units BSF   I   13.986 I   +  t565 I   489   I-Construction of communal
86 Units CST:             1 I Units CST   I    0.185 ;                     s septic tanks was found In-
3         co:ff i          3 Units hST   a    0.309 a             :         I feasible due toa
      2----------                 t 2 1) No individual toi!ets
I   14.490 s           a          I    on the part of the users
I         I                                                    2) No individual water con-
:                            :                      s *  a    nections
I          a                      I a 3) Non-availability of sites
a             *                                       a           I          I    for CST
s         I                            I            I         a 4) Non-affordattility to pay
I *       I                            I            I         I    sever charges
I s                                         :                :  5) Non-acceptability
: .  1     2           I          s    by the beneficiaries
:         : ~ ~~ :                     :          1           2          :
I                                        I :  a     sAlternative was for the reha-
:                a           a           I          :bilitation of existing public
2                           :          :toilets.
C. DRAINAGE            :199.5 Kos. of:  50.225 :187.255 Kos. D  I  85.930 :              s
:drainage im- I         i 39.253 Kes. MD I    4.045       + 13T   a  + 795  i
:proveeents   :         I----------------  ------- I: I
I  I      :226.508 Kes. of I  89.975 I              I         a
s         :drainage improve:           a            a         :Political pressures were very
I:I       seents            I                       s I       sintense. However, these projects        m t
I          I            I    s    thad more ismediate impact on
E. STREET IMPROVERENTSt64.0 Kes. of I  64.006 t144.375 Kes. S  I  113.472 a              I          aproperty values.
:road improve-:         I 9.006 KMs. MS t   16.166 :        + 1395s   4 1025:
:eents                  I----------------:---------- I 
:         :153.381 Kes.    a  t29.638 a                       2



- 90 -
ATTACHMENT
Page 7 of 9
NATIONAL HOME MORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORATION
April 18, 1989
MR. ALEXANDER NOWICKI
Division Chief
Operations Evaluation Dept.
The World Bank
International Bank for Reconstruction & Devt.
1818 H Street, N.W.
Wa3hington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Nowichi:
The Private Sites and Services Project Office, now the
Special Projects Departmeiit (37PD) of the National Home
Mortgage  Finance Corporation (NHMFC), acknowledges  receipt
of' the  Project  Completion Report on  Loan  1821-PH.   The
document  has appropriately highlighted POSP as well as  the
other Urban T I Components program performance in terms of
their  strengths  and  problems  encountered.   We  wish  to
clarify, however, the issue pointed by  tl,e Bank  on  PSOP's
lending  rate  as  embodied in Part I par. 36  and  Part  II
Section  5.34  of  the same roport.   In  particular,  these
sections  questioned  the  applied  interest  rate  of  P-SSP
construction    loans.    Following   accounts    for    the
corresponding application of 9% and 12% interest rates:
1.0  Combined Application of 9% and 12% Interest
PSSPO  in a letter to IBRD dated 03  December  1983
proposed modifications in the said letter agreement
with  the Bank executed on 16 February  1980.   The
proposal called for' the revision of the provision
pertaining to loan ceiling of 35% and affordability
level target. Per the suggestion of Mr. Inder K.
Sud, the revised sec-ion with the corresponding
required note from the then Minister of Finance
Cesar Virata read as follows:
"MHS   would  advance  a  loan   to   the
developer for a portion of the finance
required to construct the project in a
percentage to be agreed with the Bank, or
at an interest rate of not less than 9%
per year for up to 25% of the finance
required and 12% for any excess thereof
(up, to the agreed level) as a grace
period on capital and inter-est of 2
8TH a10TH FLOORS, ALLIEO BANK CENTER, AYALA AVENUE, MAKATI, MM., P.O. BOX 2171 TEL. NOS. 81548251 TO 76



ATTACHMENT
-91 -                      Page 8 of 9
months t   tro-,rr  the  d a t.e  ot'f  rorranencing
-on--truc?t ion. Repayment perii ,d and actual
interest  no(:t  changed woulld ble  open  toD
neg-otiati on. '    (Please  refe-r  to   the
attahel-Led    letters. to  IBED   dated    03
De(:emEber  1983. 16 Feb.-uary 1984  and  02
Marcreh 1984 and frorm  IRE.R  to  SSP d,tte-d 16
JartLuarvy 1964. '
i':n,trar ,  tc.  the cromment in paraCr'aph  ..3  of  the
eK:mU1letiQ1 orf(port that the issue was discussed with
thr-e SBrwk eand aIt a.reed, 1Ir. Eduard V.K.  Joycox's
D re t,,--r  i,for  Caountry Pror-rams  Departiment,  East
AMina  ,    a-if'-   Eegiiona1 (jifice)  letter  to  Mr.
V ir;t.e ea c-nf irite c  t.he  apprc'val  on  the  proposed
rr-vip.ii-,n   ont-i 20 March 1984 (Please refer  to  the
Co.py  o-f  the   Iette-u).  In  view   thereof,  PSSP's
acioption  cf  the. '9% andl 12%"  interest  rates  is
Valid and lega!l.
20  Appiircation cf Flat 12% Interest Rate
Un April 3, 1987. P:SS.P under the management of  M4r.
Tec,doro K. Kat igbak prop0osed for several  revisions
oin  the  projram '    implementing  policies.   These
iticlade.  inter  aiai.  the adoptimn  of  flat  12%
i ntere.l+, -ate fic r  implifying lo.an structures.  The
prup:salt w;.s a,.-cepted by IBRD   in its telex sent by
Javid  Ahtra,.i  orn     Aprril 1937.   PSSP  has  since
adcJAted  the flat i   int-erest rate.  Please  refer
to  tthe  rfittached letters vf  Mssrs.  Katigbak  anrd
Ahmadl.
W.H  h-r-bpe  that.  the  albove  expLarnation  clarifies   PSSP's
apo.l' io.:~t.i -n  of two iriodes of interest rates.  We  also  look
f rx'ar -.I  to;  the   o.orrespornding  ad-justment  in  the    final
.:OrlleIt.Onl Report. for U-ban- I 1I Loan.
jle.y tri.uly you,trs.
Ar.                Ib:AY. JR.
Fecial Projects Dept.
CAPLCiS P   'CBLE
Secretary ;Gene ral, HUDCC



KOMISYON NG KALAKHANG MAYNULA
(METROPOLITAN MANILA COMMISSION)    ATTACHMENT
Page 9 of 9
-92 -
May 23, 1989
MR. ALEXANDER NOWICKI
Division Chief
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Dear Mr. Nowicki,
This refers to the '',ird Urban Development
Pro_ect (Loan 1821 PH) Project Completion Report
(PCRj furnished this office for comments.
Please be informed that as far as the Solid
Waste Improvement Program (SWIP) is concerned, we
find the evaluation of the Bank fair and reasonable
in its eitirety. However, may we just call the
attention of the Bank concerning certain term in the
PCR which requires modification.  We are referring
to Table of Key Indices (Attachmsnt I p. 2) page I-13
which states:..."followed immediately by Japanese
acquisition of an additional 116 trucks for MMC ope-
rations" (underscoring supplied). It should read:...
"followed immediately by Japanese grant or donation
of 116 trucks for MMC operation". Such modification
is more expressive of how the MMC was able to get in
possession of the trucks.
Thank you for the usual assistance and coopera-
tion you have been extending us.
Very truly yours,
T ON
manager, SWIP



