Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2703a-PH
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 26, 1980
Urban Projects Dep,artment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =  Peso (P)
1 Peso                =  US$0.1351
US$1                  =  P7.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                        =  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)              =  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)               =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        0.62 mile tmi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)              0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                         10,000 square meters (sq m or
2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BLISS     -  Bagong Lipunan Improvement of Sites and Services
CIF       -  Capital Improvement Folio
COA       -  Commission on Audit
DBP       -  Development Bank of the Philippines
ESC       -  Environmental Sanitation Center
LOI       -  Letters of Instruction
MCB       -  Management Coordination Board
MHS       -  Ministry of Human Settlements
MMINUTE   - Metro-Manila Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering Program
MRA       - Metro Manila Area
MMBIDP    -  Metro-Manila Barangay Industries Development Program
MMC       -  Metro Manila Commission
MMTA      - Metro Manila Transport Authority
MOB       - Ministry of Budget
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
MPH       - Ministry of Public Highways
MPW       -  Ministry of Public Works
MWSS      - Metropolitan Water and Sewerage System
NACIDA    -  National Cottage Industry Development Authority
NEDA      -  National Economic and Development Authority
NHA       -  National Housing Authority
NHMFC     -  National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
NMYC      -  National Manpower and Youth Council
PBSP      -  Philippine Business for Social Progress
PD        -  Presidential Decree
PROGRESS  -  Program for Removing Sewage from Streets
RAD       -  Research and Analysis Division
SIR       -  Slum Improvement and Resettlement Program
SSE       -  Small Scale Enterprise
TRC       -  Technology Resource Center
TUVD      -  Technology Utilization Ventures Division
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
UPISSI    -  University of the Philippines Institute for Small Scale Industry
ZIP       -  Zonal Improvement Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Chapter:
I. BACKGROUND .....................                                 1
A. The Urlban Sector .1
B. The Metro Manila Area                  .. .4
II.  THE PROJECTr        ...............................................   14
A.  Objectives ....................................... ....  14
B.  Project Components ......     ......................... ....   15
C.  Detailed Features ............... ..     ..................  16
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                . . .    23
A.  Cost Estimates .......     .................................   23
B.  Financing Plan .............      .......................*..   25
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                   . . .    27
A.  Project Organization, Management and Monitoring .......  27
B. Executing Agencies                   . . .    33
C.  Flow of Funds, Budgeting and Programming       .    .      35
D. Implementation Schedule                . . .    37
E.  Procur,ement and Disbursements           .     .    .      37
F.  Operations and Maintenance ...................... ... .    40
G. Supervision                      ...   40
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..................................          42
A.  Cost Recovery ..........................................  42
B. Terms to Beneficiaries and Affordability ..............  42
C.  Impact on Municipal Finance and Program Replicabi]Lity.   45
This report is based on the findings of Messrs. Williams, Whlitehead and
Messrs. Racki, Ter Woort and Walker (consultants) who visited the Philippines
in February 1979 to pre-appraise the project. A follow-up mission comprising
Messrs. Williams, Whitehead, Ramani and Messrs. Boyle and Gsottschneider
(consultants) visited the Philippines in June 1979 to complete the Appraisal.
FThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thie performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.j



Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Page No.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ....................................  46
A. Economic Benefits    ... 46
B. Urban Poverty Impact    ..47
C. Project Risks                ..47
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .49
CHARTS
20840    Community Upgrading Programs in Metro-Manila and expected
impact on unserviced population
20841    Comparative Statement of Income and Expenditures.
Cities and Municipalities calendar year 1978-79
20842    Institutional Structure for ZIP and MMINUTE programs
20902    Implementation Schedule
20871    Operational and Maintenance Responsibility for Project
Components
20872    Cost Recovery
20843    Ministry of Human Settlements.  Organization Chart
20837    Metropolitan Manila Commission.  Organization Chart
20838    National Housing Authority.  Organization Chart
20844    Technology Resource Center.  Organization Chart
20901    ZIP yearly Project and Program Cycle
ANNEXES
1. ZIP Program Financing Plan
2. Sites and Services Financing Plan (Government-developed)
3. Sites and Services Financing Plan (by private developers)
4. Planning Criteria and Design Standards
5. Residual Disposition of Bank Loan
6. List of Documents on Project File
MAPS
14586    MMA Land Use
14587    Population Densities
14657    Household Income
14588    Project Locations
14665    Example layout plans for ZIP site
14666    Example layout plan for MMINUTE area
Photographs of ZIP and MMINUTE Sites



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Urban Sector
Urban Struc ure and Growth
1.01      The Philippines' urban population in 1975 was estimated at 14.3
million, or approximately 33% of the country's total population of 42.2
million. Some 12.5% of the country's population or 40% of its urban popula-
tion live in Metro Manila itself. Another 1.3% reside in urban centers
which are closely associated with Manila. There are only seven urban areas
including Metropolitan Manila which have urban populations greater than
100,000 and a furt:her eighteen centers with urban populations from 50,000
to 100,000. Only 5.2% (2.1 million persons in 1975) live in large urban
centers that are distinct from Metro Manila.
1.02      The urban population is presently growing at about 3.5% compared
to 2.8% per year overall. Growth rates have been uneven among cities of
different sizes wiLth Metro Manila and smaller cities growing fastest. Within
the next twenty years the population of the Philippines will have grown to
75 or 80 million people, almost double its present size and up to two-thirds
of the added popu'Lation may have to be absorbed in urban areas even under
optimistic projecitions of rural employment. Based on present trends Metro
Manila would have a population of 16 million by the year 200C0.
Urban Poverty and Employment
1.03      The urban poverty threshold for the Philippines in 1977 is esti-
mated at F1,877 ($250) per person per year based on a least cost diet.
Although available data is not precise, it indicates that 39% of families
in urban areas and about 80-90% of famhilies in typical slum areas of major
cities have per capita incomes below that level. In Metro Manila, 35% of
the population, or about 2.1 million people live below the poverty level.
Thus Metro Manila alone accounts for 30% of the urban poor in the Philippines.
Recent data show a decline in rates of urban unemployment to about 8% of the
workforce in 1976. In addition, high levels of underemployment are indicated
by the high proportion of part-time work by heads of househoLds and by low
wages of F12 per day ($1.60) for an unskilled urban laborer. Real incomes
for this group are estimated to have declined by one-third between 1970-1978
and are likely to decline further if the present high rates of inflation
persist. A number of national programs exist to promote industrial and
business expansion including small-scale industry. However, the lack of an
integrated system for assisting small business, weak coordination and
duplication of functions have prevented the programs from becoming fully
effective.
Urban Services and Shelter
1.04      Most of the country's cities and municipalities have not kept pace
with expanding demands for provision of basic infrastructure, partly because
of financial constraints at the local level and partly due to other national
priorities. As a result municipal infrastructure is generally inadequate to



- 2 -
service the basic needs of large segments of the urban population. Almost 25%
of all urban households in the Philippines and over 30% in Metro Manila, live
in squatter and slum settlements without secure tenure and lacking safe water
supply, drainage, human waste disposal and clean access. Available studies
indicate disease rates and infant mortality from 3 to 8 times worse than for
non-slum areas of the city and a level of disease and malnutrition higher than
their low income counterparts in rural areas.
1.05      The historic lack of relevant shelter programs for the increasing
low income population has created severe over-crowding especially in low
income urban areas where gross residential densities in central city slums
reach almost 2,000 persons/hectare. Studies indicate that in the country as
a whole from 1960 to 1970 there was an increase of 1.3 households for every
one dwelling unit and this imbalance was much worse in urban slums, which in
Metro Manila grew over three times more quickly than the city as a whole over
the decade 1958-68. It is estimated that two dwelling units are built per
1,000 population in the country as a whole, whereas six per 1,000 are required
to accommodate growth and eliminate the backlog. In the MMA alone, 45,000
units a year are needed, or over three times the present rate of housing
construction.
Urban Institutions
1.06      A number of important new institutions have recently been estab-
lished and are beginning to significantly effect the development of national
urbanization policies. In July 1975 the National Housing Authority (NHA) was
established to consolidate Government housing efforts, previously dispersed
among six separate bodies. The Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) was
established in July 1978 with responsibilities for national human settlements
planning, especially land use planning and environmental management, technical
assistance and regulation. Better coordination of planning, and delivery of
services and improved local government administration in the Metro Manila
area has been initiated with the establishment of the Metro Manila Commission
(MMC). The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) has recently established a process
for investment planning and for identification of service deficiencies which
is already being implemented in Metro Manila and in major regional cities
within the framework of regional development planning now being introduced by
National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA). In 1978 the Government
established the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC) to
provide a secondary market for home mortgages.
Urban Issues
1.07      Among the numerous urban issues facing policymakers in the Philippines
there are four of paramount importance and on which the Bank's urban lending
strategy is increasingly being focussed.
Provision of Basic Services. Secondary and tertiary infrastructure,
especially in low income areas has been badly neglected in the past and the
need to expand these services and improve their distribution to the poor in
conjunction with regularization of tenure, is particularly important. The
Government's recent initiatives in slum upgrading and expansion of low-cost



sites and services provides the legislative basis and the national support
necessary to begin dealing with these problems. The early projects which
demonstrated this approach were assisted through the Bank's iirst two urban
loans. The project will contribute towards this objective by assisting
large-scale programs focussing exclusively on the urban poor in Metro Manila
whose extent and concentration offer the greatest opportuni:--- to improve
living conditions and incomes.
Employment and Productivity. The Government places a high priority
on increasing employment and productivity in view of (i) the skewed income
distribution, which could be improved by stimulating expansion and higher
productivity among small businesses, (ii) the high level of skills, and
education and low comparative wages of Philippine labor which should enable
it to expand exports, especially from the sectors of small machinery,
consumer products and crafts. These objectives, will become increasingly
important as urbanization absorbs the surplus rural wor1-force. A twin
strategy is needed which would encourage expansion of larger 'generating'
enterprises together with stimulating links with small businesses in the
regional cities, and within Metro Manila, to discourage large 'generating'
enterprises, especially heavy and polluting ones, and encouraLge higher
productivity in small businesses.  The project is designed to support this
objective in Metro Manila.
Urban Investment Planning and Resource Generation. This concerns
the critical links between expressed priorities, actual investment patterns
and generating the resources to pay for them. Public investments in the past
have been geared towards primary infrastructure and large-scale industry.
Although, the Government has recently placed priority on services for the urban
poor, basic infrastructure serving poor areas still represents only a small
proportion of investments in Metro Manila, and there has been no system to
regularly review priorities and monitor the impact of investment programs.
The Capital Improvement Folio review conducted by the MPW and financed through
the first urban loan is the first effort to make a comprehensive analysis of
investments in the Metro Manila Area (MMA) and is proving a useful tool for
generating discussion and providing a basis for decision-makiLng among agencies.
The project will finance an extension of this approach to other cities in the
country. At the same time local government finances require strengthening in
order to minimize reliance on central government investments and subsidies.
The proJiect also provides technical assistance to the MMC to further develop
its organizational structure and strengthen its administrative and financial
systems.
Regional Development and Urbanization Strategy.  In the past, the
intermecdiate and small cities and their needs for infrastructure and industry
have been neglected as a focus of policy. There is also a need to develop
smaller urban centers in a support role for rural development. These measures
are important in order to (i) improve the distribution of incomes across
regions, (ii) improve the level of services, incomes and living environ-
ments in rural areas and small towns and thus minimize migration, and (iii)
direct surplus migration to intermediate and smaller urban centers.  More
recently National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and MRS have
directed their attention towards regional planning and administration and a
development study for one region has been prepared with UNDP finance. These
efforts are expected to lead to more effective planning on a regional basis.



- 4 -
However, strong support at the national level to budgeting and investment
programming by regional bodies and local governments remains a high priority
need. Technical assistance to support these efforts through MPW, NEDA and MHS
is included in the project.
Shelter Policy
1.08      A major re-orientation of shelter policy has been unde-rway since
1976, away from squatter removal and relocation and towards in situ improve-
ment of slums and expansion of urbanized land for low income settlement.
Based on the impact realized through the Tondo Foreshore improvements, Govern-
ment has now given this policy a high priority among urban infrastructure
investments. Letters of Instruction, issued by the President in 1977 insti-
tuted slum improvement as the principal national program for servicing the
basic needs of the large and rapidly growing low income communities. Local
governments are required to organize a staff to prepare 3-year, 5-year and
long term programs of slum improvement, in conjunction with the National
Housing Authority (NHA). The Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP) has been desig-
nated as the Metro Manila component of the national program. In. addition
to physical improvements the program involves acquisition, or expropriation,
where necessary, of squatter land from absentee landowners for resale to
residents in order to provide a secure basis for residents to improve their
housing. The slum improvement program is now established in five regional
cities and in Metro Manila NHA and the local governments have established
permanent teams for ZIP, prepared feasibility studies, and executed initial
improvement works in ten slum areas. New sites and services projects are
also under construction in Manila (Dagat-Dagatan) and in three regional
cities. If these programs are continued and are successful they will have a
major impact over the next 10 years on the lives of the poorest 30% to 40%
in the country's towns and cities.
1.09      In addition to these programs of basic services the Ministry of
Human Settlements has recently introduced a housing program called Bagong
Lipunan Improvement of Sites and Services (BLISS). The principal concept is
the development of mixed income communities with emphasis on employment and
a degree of self-sufficiency. The program has two major components: "rural
BLISS" for small settlements in regional cities involving a demonstration
project commencing with ten hectare developments in each settlement, and "urban
BLISS" for central and inner-ring sites in Metro Manila. The "rural BLISS"
program is similar in service standards and costs to the higher range of NHA's
sites and services and housing programs and appears affordable to moderate
and middle income people. The Metro Manila BLISS presently consists of four-
storey walk up apartments costing P75-90,000 per unit excluding land and
infrastructure and affordable to low income families only on the basis of
substantial subsidies. Based on the MMA income distribution, yearly construc-
tion by private developers of about 500 to 700 units of this type for upper-
middle income groups in Metro Manila would be appropriate, but the high
investment cost and considerable cross-subsidy required would ruLe out this
approach to providing shelter for lower income groups on an extensive scale.
B. The Metro Manila Area (MMA)
Population and Economy
1.10      Following World War II the MMA expanded from a population of 1.6
million in 1948 to its present size of over 6.0 million. Almost 40% of this



population presently results from in-migration. At the present rate of
expansion of 4% per year, by the end of the century 16 million persons or
44% of the Philippine urban population could be living in the Manila region.
1.11      Building on its traditional advantages of the port and the seat of
Government, 'he economy of the MMA has diversified into a wide variety of
activities. In 1974 industry accounted for 38% of value-added and 25% of
total employment in the MMA. Almost half of all the small firms in the
country are located in Metro Manila, and the annual growth rate of small and
medium industries is now 15.2%. Fully 80% of employment in the industrial
sector is in small and cottage industries which have a high capacity for
absorbing labor and offer the highest value-added per unit of capital.
However, the major share of investments in industry have, in the past, been
directed towards thLe large and medium firms. Commerce (30% value-added, 17%
of employment), services (17% value-added, 38% of employment), transport and
construction represent the other significant economic sectors. Unemployment
at about 7% is sometwhat lower than for the country as a whole and in view of
the ratio of growth in employment to the population (2.5:1.0 over 1961-71)
the MMA has clearly proven attractive to both migrants and natives. With
15% of the national population the MMA now accounts for about 40% of total
GNP and 15% of its public sector capital investments. This latter figure is
likely to rise in the next years from projects already committed in the MMA.
Diversification across the modern sectors of the economy is being achieved,
yet the disparity in incomes and living conditions within the city is
pronounced (Map 14657).
1.12      Spatial change in the MMA is illustrated by the low growth rate
in Manila City (1.6%/year) combined with expansion of the innetr ring which
doubled its population share from 1948-1970, and now the present outer ring
is growing fastest at 7-1/2%/year. Distribution of formal employment has
changed in a similar manner to the spatial growth of the city. A large road
building program from the late 1950s through to the mid 1970s in conjunction
with development oiE the new government center at Quezon City, a new commercial
center at Makati and extensive 'villages' of upper income sub--divisions in
Quezon City, San Juan and Makati, stimulated a rapid spatial expansion to the
northeast and southeast of the city. Expansion of radial roads and construc-
tion of new circumferential roads has also encouraged new industries to locate
along them and at the perimeter of the city, especially to the east, southeast
and north, but flooding and lack of water offer constraints to further devel-
opment to the sout]heast and south respectively. Apart from upper income
sub-divisions and office complexes the urban texture tends to be a uniform,
dense two and three-storey residential mixed land use with little public
open space except for roads (Maps 14586 and 14587).
Distribution of Services and Low Income Areas
1.13      Services are unevenly distributed in the MMA and the maintenance
of local infrastructure is very poor. Per capita expenditures on services
vary widely among local governments depending on local fiscal resources
(para. 1.24). Variations in levels of service between low income areas and
the rest of the city are difficult to define statistically, but a general
indication for most slum areas can be drawn from a study on Tondo in 1974
which indicated service provision of about 30% to 60% of that provided for



- 6 -
Manila City as a whole. Water service networks do not extend to slum and
squatter areas except for occasional standpipes where both the volume and
pressure are low. Some areas in the south (Taguig, Pateros) have neither
piped water nor wells, and supplies are brought in by tanker at high cost.
Low income families may pay up to P60/month or up to 15% of income on water
bought from vendors. The water situation will become increasingly critical
until 1983/84 when an increased bulk supply and supplementary networks will
be completed under the Bank-financed Manila water supply project. A sewerage
network exists in the central areas and most upper and middle income communi-
ties have septic tanks but about 40% of families in the MMA still do not have
any type of sanitary toilet and sanitation problems are exceptionally severe
in low income areas. Lack of proper toilets and sewage disposal is compounded
by flooding and stagnant water due to the absence of effective surface water
drainage systems. In conjunction with poor medical services and with high
densities these conditions have led to incidence of disease and malnutrition
which are over three to eight times that for the rest of the city.
1.14      About 1.8 million of the 6.0 million population of the MMA live in
slum and squatter areas lacking adequate water supply, sanitation and drainage,
education, health or community facilities. Mass squatting has been prevented
by fairly effective control by the NHA, local governments and private owners.
With little provision of new settlement areas which can be afforded by the
poor, the trend over the past ten years has been towards increasing densifica-
tion of existing slum and squatter areas by further sub-division and high
rates of room occupancy which reach 9 persons per room in some areas (Map
14587). The NHA has identified 415 slum sites of which about 212 have poten-
tial for upgrading. The other 203 are marginal settlements located on canals,
rivers and transport rights of way and comprise about 30,000 families. They
are not included in the upgrading program and their residents will be accommo-
dated in serviced sites or infil plots in due course when major infrastructure
facilities require their removal. Many of the settlements which are suitable
for upgrading are centrally located, and high densities and lack of available
resettlement sites dictate minimum relocation. Pocket slums, usually of less
than 5 hectares but also of high densities, are dotted throughout the MMA. In
addition, beach slums occupied mainly by fishermen, and low density perimeter
settlements have proliferated at the urbanizing fringe of the MMA. In all
cases land title and basic sanitation services are the most urgent priorities.
In addition to these depressed settlements there is a range of 'grey' areas -
neighborhoods which lack certain critical services but where tenure is estab-
lished and housing quality is adequate. A further one and a half million
people in the MMA live in these areas.
1.15      Surveys of social, economic and housing conditions have been made
on about 30 sites for which ZIP feasibility studies have been prepared. These
surveys reveal the following general characteristics. About half of the
settlements illegally occupy government-owned land and the remainder are built
on private land, the majority of the structure owners paying a land rent to
the landowners, who in many cases have deliberately sub-divided the land for
this purpose. Most of the land is in large parcels, owned by absentee land-
lords who have held it since colonial times, or by institutions. Yearly land
rents range from about P6/m2 to P24/m2 (or P20 to P60/house/month) and den-
sities range from less than 200 persons per hectare at the periphery of the MMA



- 7 -
to over 1700 persons per hectare in central areas such as Leveriza and Juan
Luna. Provision of land tenure to the settlers would help to stabilize the
areas and minimize further sub-division. There is a wide variation in house
tenancy and monthly rents for individual rooms vary from P40 to F200
depending on location, condition and size. Among renters, families, rather
than single people, predominate in most of the settlements, the majority
having lived in the same house for more than seven years. The treatment and
rights for renter families is an important issue when the transfer of land
title is planned (see para 2.06).
Infrastructure Investment Planning
1.16       UrLtil recently, implementation of rational planning for urban land
use, cross-sectoral investments and sectoral planning has been weak or non-
existent with inadequate implementation or coordination powers. A Strategic
Plan for the Metropolitan Bay Region was initiated in 1973 but not completed.
Zoning ordinances which are generally out-dated and based on inadequate land
use plans are executed by local governments but in an ad-hoc manner, unrelated
to overall priorities. Government's investment program for MA 'has tended to
assist and stimulate the modern sector of the economy and its immediate
beneficiaries, and services to provide for basic needs and to increase the
productivity and incomes of the poor have been largely neglected. Proposed
investments in the MMA in the past have not received a systematic review
against averall priorities and resources available to execute them.
1.17       The CapitaL Improvement Folio (CIF). Over the past lEi months the
MPW has led efforts to obtain a more rational and integrated approach to
investment planning in the MMA in the light of implementing capaicity and
financial constraints. A recent compilation of projects proposetd by govern-
ment agencies (the Capital Improvement Folio) indicated an increase in invest-
ments to F4-5 billion in 1980 from P2.2 billion originally estimated for
the year by the 1978 CIF review. This would represent an increase in the
proportion of government expenditure in the Metro-Manila region from 11% of
the national infrastructure budget in 1977 (P843 million actually spent) to
over 37% in 1980. Although actual expenditures are normally only 55% to 65%
of those actually budgeted, such an increase involving about 60 projects in
Metro Manila would severely strain implementing capacity, fuel :Lnflation,
reduce domestic liquidity and divert resources from other regiolns of the
country. In view of these problems, the CIF was discussed by an inter-agency
committee including MPW, other sectoral agencies, MHS, MMC, Ministry of Budget
(MOB) and NEDA. Three alternative investment packages were prepared for the
committee's review, which represented expenditures for 1980 of P1.5 billion,
12.5 billion or F3.5, billion.  In each package, projects were accorded
priorities in the light of criteria including level of commitmeint (on-going
and committed foreign-assisted projects were accorded highest priority), pov-
erty impact, employment generation and technical relationships with other pro-
jects.  Through elimination and re-phasing of projects, a revised CIF of p3.3
billion for 1980 emerged, of which F2 billion comprised on-going or fully
committed projects. Expenditure levels of between F3.5 and Y4.5 billion per
year in current costs from 1981 through 1983 are proposed as new projects are
brought in. In viewq of the serious resource constraints and administrative
capacity, the proposed P3.3 billion program for 1980 will probably not be



- 8 -
achieved. Based on past trends, actual funding of up to P2.7 billion may
be required. The MPW and MMC are now reviewing the implementation prospects
of each project in more detail with a view to defining a likely level of dis-
bursement. The revised CIF proposes a significant shift in the balance of
sectoral expend'ture for the years 1980-83 compared to the expenditures in
1977-79. Water and Sewerage projects rise from 24% of the 1977--79 expendi-
tures to 38.5% for the 1980-83 budget. Community upgrading also rises from
5.5% to 14.1%. Increases for housing and new towns (2.0% to 3.4%), adminis-
trative buildings (4.3% to 8.0%) and health and education facilLties (1.6%
to 2.1%) are also proposed. There is a drop in relative importance of flood
protection (26.4% to 11.7%) and transport (40.6% to 22%). The increase in
water supply and community upgrading indicates an emphasis on services to the
urban poor, which have been neglected in the past. Nevertheless, due to the
expected increase in overall expenditures in 1980-82 (F11.5 billion) from
1977-79 (P4.5 billion), every sector shows an absolute increase in expendi-
tures and a further review of those new projects which do not directly
benefit the poor or increase their productivity, is warranted. New projects
involving urban transport, conventional sewerage, new towns and housing,
and administrative complexes should come under special scrutiny. The CIF
review is now expected to be further developed and integrated into the MMC's
planning and budgeting process. The project provides for technical assistance
to the MMC for this purpose. The Bank would be closely involved in this
process in the expectation that the next loan for the MMA would fund a broad
range of essential services emerging from a balanced investment program.
Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the Government will discuss with
the Bank the proposed annual and three year investment program for the MMA
prior to its approval.
1.18      Community upgrading (Chart 20840).  The government has developed
four major programs to address the environmental needs of low income com-
munities in the MMA.  The Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP) is designed to
comprehensively upgrade the legal, environmental, social and economic condi-
tions of slum residents, with minimum relocation. Initiated in 1977 it is a
15-year program building up to an output of 15,000 upgraded plots per year
(150,000 persons/year) after 1983 to eventually serve 2.2 million people
(Annex 1). The second program, the Metro-Manila Infrastructure Utilities and
Engineering Program (MMINUTE), conceived by the MNW in 1978, is designed to
be complementary to ZIP. It is restricted to infrastructure improvements
and maintenance in existing rights of way and does not deal with problems of
tenure, physical replanning and social and economic development. As such it
provides less benefits than ZIP but can move more rapidly. The Program for
Removing Sewage from Streets (PROGRESS) is the third upgrading program,
designed by the MWSS as a low cost alternative to new central sewerage sys-
tems. It improves the collection and disposal of foul and surface water
wastes from streets and is also simple and rapid to implement. The MMINUTE
and PROGRESS programs are very similar and will be executed by the same staff
and with integrated management. Together they would provide cr-itical improve-
ments in drainage, sanitation, water supply and access to about 4.8 million
people over 8 years. They are designed to start in the worst areas of the
MMA, then move into the "grey" areas. The ZIP starts in a separate range of
sites, then proceeds to upgrade the housing blocks bounded by streets which
have received upgrading under MMINUTE and PROGRESS. In order to accommodate
the growth of low and moderate income groups in the MMA, the NHA initiated in



-9-
COMMUNITY UPGRADING PROGRAMS IN
MAETRO-MANILA AND EXPECTED IMPACTS
ON THE UNSERVICED POPULATION
Population
(Millions)
4.0
3.5
Decrease in population
Iliving in poorly-serviced       Progress 
,/areas vvith all programs                         0 o/ 
3.0
Increase in saum
population without
ZIP and sites and
services programs.
2.5  -
/           /&                 ~~~~~~MMinute
2.0   -                                                                \   
~~~ 7          /'               \ / /      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZIP/
15   slum populati'on                                      
1.5        with TONDO, ZIP
and sites and c_                                     
services ' 
1.0                           *                                                    \Sites and
/   /      /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< ~~~~Services
0.50
Tondo       /                                      , "                                                         \
000 00-                                       Connections to Dagupan and Pandacan Sewerage Extension
~~    n             I          ~I   I      I       I      I       I       I       I      I       I       I      I       I
0      1       2      3       4       5      6       7      8       9      10      11      12      13     14      15     16      17
1980
Years                                                                                                          VWorld Bank - 20840



- 10 -
1975 a long-term program of low cost new serviced sites.  The first major
development at Dagat-Dagaton was assisted by the Bank's first and second
urban loans and the project will continue to support this program by devel-
opment of perimeter sites at the urban fringe. Without these programs the
slum population is expected to grow from 1.8 million today to a;- ut 3.8
million by 1995. If all four programs are pursued as planned ( e Chart
20840) the present slum population of 1.8 million plus a further 1.5 million
people living in poorly serviced areas together with the increase of the
low-income population are expected to be provided with a reasonable minimum
level of service by 1995. So far over P75 million has been spent on
physical works in ZIP, staff and management structures are largely in place
for all programs and rapid expansion in their activities is anticipated.
1.19      The Bank expects to have a continuing involvement in these programs
which are focused on the urban poor. This project would finance a three year
slice of the ZIP and MMINUTE programs with expectation of the Bank financing
a subsequent slice, depending on implementation performance.
Metropolitan Administration and Finance
1.20      The loosely defined role of local governments in the Philippines
has led to substantial disparities in the delivery of municipal services and
to the extensive involvement of national government and ad hoc agencies in
local services, particularly in the provision of major infrastructure works.
The principal functions of the local governments in Metro Manila include local
drainage and solid wastes management; streets and footpaths; secondary educa-
tion and local clinics; and markets and slaughterhouses. Water supply and
sewerage systems are operated by a government corporation and electricity by
a private utility. Privately operated jeepneys, and buses operated by the
Metropolitan Transit Authority make up the public passenger transport system.
The four cities and 13 municipalities which, together with the MMC, comprise
the local government structure in the 635 sq km area of Metro Manila are
particularly varied in terms of their area, population and service needs on
the one hand, and their economic base, fiscal and technical resources on the
other.
1.21      Fiscal Performance.  Although the rapid population growth in the
MMA has increased the relative importance of its municipalities, the four
cities still predominate with about 60% of the population and generating about
70% of local revenues (77% of local property taxes). Fiscal performance (see
Chart 20841) varies widely between individual local governments with Manila
City operating to a $52.7 million budget compared to $175,000 for Pateros
Municipality. Per capita revenues range between $10 to $29 for cities and
$3 to $22 for municipalities. A similar range exists for expenditures.
Quite good growth in revenues of about 20% per year has been experienced in
recent years although this too has varied considerably between individual
jurisdictions highlighting the effect of improved collection performance in
some local governments. Taxes on real property and on businesses constitute
the major revenue sources administered locally and together represent about
65% of total revenues including central government budgetary support which
overall accounts for about 15% of local government revenues in the Metropolitan
area ranging between 10% to 63% for individual local governments. Local



PHI LIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURES
CITIES AND MUNICIPALITIES
CALENDAR YEAR 1978-1979
ALL FUNDS
(In Million Pesos)
500        _ 
400
300
200
100
50
40
20
10
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0<
C,   X0                                 L                    0                   10  LL0 
&s<<    fief,>C<> ;eb9           0# ¢           <      > Sts X            oe )0@<,,e                  ,
INCOME                                          EXPENDITURES
1978      '''  1979                            1978            1979
SOURCE: MMC                                                                                         World Bank - 20841



- 12 -
governments are statutorily required to operate to balanced budgets and
maintain financial reserves at an acceptable level. 1/ Only 12% of local
expenditures represented capital outlay which has traditionally been financed
almost entirely from current revenues. The range in per capita expenditures
has inevitably resulted in considerable disparity in service levels. Govern-
ment has taken 3teps to institute uniform rates of taxes, fees and charges
throughout the MMA and this will substantially increase revenues in the muni-
cipalities. The re-assessment of property values which became effective
on June 1, 1979 effectively doubled property tax revenues, and the process
of bringing assessed values more into line with market values will continue
in future revaluations which are to follow a three year cycle. As a result,
the reasonably good revenue growth experienced in recent years is expected
to be sustained and to improve over the near term, allowing an improvement
to prevailing service levels. The impact of the upgrading programs on local
government budgets is reviewed in paras 5.09 to 5.11.
1.22      Institution of Metropolitan Government.  In order to strengthen the
administrative structure for the provision of services in the MMA to deal more
effectively with issues of area-wide significance, the 4 cities and 13 munici-
palities were integrated into the Metro Manila Commission created under PD 824
in November 1975 to establish strategic policy and coordinate infrastructure
planning for the area and supervise the administration of local services. The
commission is headed by a Governor (First Lady, Mrs. Marcos) who discharges
the powers and functions of the commission pending its full constitution.
Assisting the Governor is a Vice Governor, and assistants for planning, finance
and operations. Action officers have also been appointed from relevant
agencies for infrastructure, health, housing, transportation etc. All local
officials are appointed by the President. Under PD 824, power to levy and
collect local revenues was transferred to MMC. This change has not been
fully effected but MMC receives 20% of local revenues to help meet expenses
of the integrated public services and development projects. In addition,
specific taxes and government grants accrue to MMC.
1.23      Shortly following its creation MMC established an interagency
steering committee to review means to improve the organization, financing
and delivery of services in the MMA. Detailed studies were undertaken with
consultant assistance to prepare a revised local tax code, and the process
of preparing a full cadastral survey of all properties was also commenced.
In addition, the MPW assisted the MMC to develop a rational planning process
for capital improvements (see paragraph 1.17). In recognition of the consider-
able imbalance between service needs and financial resources, and the need to
strengthen fiscal performance, MMA was organized into 4 treasury and assessment
districts in April 1976 under PD 921 (Map 14586). The fiscal revenues of each
district vary much less widely in relation to needs than is the case with
individual local governments. Other public services now organized on the
basis of four districts include police and fire protection, garbage disposal,
traffic management and hospitals. Because of their additional taxing powers,
cities have generally been better able to attract experienced staff and they
have become the representative centers for the respective districts. The
1/   Prescribed at 2% of regular current revenues including government
budgetary support.



- 13 -
districting system has already led to significant improvements in the manage-
ment of services and MMC proposes to similarly rationalize the organization
of engineering services, barangay 1/ affairs and other public services in the
near future. The engineering staffs of these district offices would supervise
contract execution of the ZIP, MMINUTE and PROGRESS programs. The emerging
system of Metropolitan government is supporting a stronger process of planning
and management of urban services especially those priority programs which cut
across traditional administrative boundaries.
1.24      In order to fully execute its responsibilities, MMC is proposing
to consolidate its organizational structure (see Chart 20837) and expand its
staffing. All senior management positions have been filled with the Deputy
Governor also acting as the assistant for operations. A substantial staff
already exists in the Finance Office and the Planning Office will shortly
commence work with the transfer of experienced staff from the Human Settle-
ments Development Corporation. To review the ongoing fiscal studies, a
steering group has been established with representatives from the Ministry
of Finance, the Cil:y Treasurers and the National Tax Research Center together
with the 14MC Finance Office. Other working groups are reviewing the organiza-
tional structures, the administrative and financial systems and personnel
management policies and these groups are well organized to supervise technical
assistance included in the proposed project. The technical assistance proposed
would help develop the organizational structures, administrative and financial
systems, and coordination of investment planning in Metro Manila, develop an
effective local government data bank and the capability for monitoring the
efficiency of public service systems.
Experience in the First Two Urban Projects
1.25      The First Urban Loan to the Philippines (1272-T and 1282-PH) concen-
trated on upgrading the environment of 160,000 persons living in Tondo, the
country's largest slum area, located in Manila. Initial delays occurred due
to problems of off-site infrastructure linkages, the complex and time consuming
process of communiLty consultation in a neighborhood which was politically
explosive, and physical 'reblocking', whereby the existing wooden houses were
moved to plots within the site. The reblocking has now been simplified and
the upgrading workc is moving much faster than before. Progress with implement-
ing the physical works is now over 60% complete, disbursements for the Tondo
component are witlhin 20% of that projected at appraisal. Land titles are now
being issued, and beneficiaries have recently commenced their monthly payments.
Costs are close to appraisal estimates. The upgraded area shows a remarkable
improvement from its previous condition. The vast majority of families have
invested considerable personal capital in transforming their homes from shacks
into attractive 2 and 3-storey dwellings within a period of six months, thereby
providing opportunities for sub-letting and more efficient use of the land.
Streets are paved and clean, and gardens are being planted. The earlier
atmosphere of tension has disappeared. The open serviced siltes at Tondo and
nearby Dagat-Dagatan have been occupied and are being rapidly transformed into
attractive dwellings through the residents' self-help. The achievement of the
project to date strongly validates the concept of issuing land titles and
1/   The Barangay is the smallest unit of government.  The Barangay captain
is elected from groups of about 1,500 households.



- 14 -
provision of basic services to stimulate community upgrading. Government has
learnt much from the experience and is now well prepared to undertake the more
extensive Zonal Improvement Program.
1.26      The Second Urban Loan (1647-PH) which became effective ?.n April 1979
finances a large sites and services project at Dagat-Dagatan, al. slum up-
grading in three regional cities. Bids have been received for the main
infrastructure works at Dagat-Dagatan, and design work has been completed for
the first contracts in the regional cities.
1.27      Technical assistance included in the first project has led to a more
rational approach to investment planning which is now being implemented in
Metro Manila and in principal regional cities. Improvement in transport
policy and performance in Metro Manila, also assisted under the first project
has, however, been unsatisfactory. Establishment of the Metro Manila Transport
Authority (MMTA) was intended to be a major institutional development, but
after a short and shadowy life, it was dissolved and transport policy in Metro
Manila is only now being reviewed by a task force recently established in the
President's office. Technical assistance available under Urban II will be
used to help government in this review.
1.28      Inadequate institutional linkages between responsible agencies and
excessive regulation in the loan approval process has impaired the effective-
ness of the programs of support to small businesses (see paras 2.15 and 2.16).
However, disbursement rates are now improving, but success of these programs
will depend on strategic improvements in institutional responsibilities now
proposed by government.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Oblectives
2.01      The project would be the Bank's third urban project in the
Philippines.  It would address the provision of basic needs and assisting
the productivity of the low income families in Metro Manila.  Building on
the experience of the first two urban projects it is designed to assist the
government in providing affordable solutions to the problems of poverty,
environment, sanitation and shelter through (a) assistance to the first
three year phase of two complementary Metro-wide slum improvement programs
designed to upgrade all the depressed areas in the MMA; (b) provision of new
serviced land for settlement by low income families in suitable locations at
the urban fringe; (c) promotion and expansion of employment and productivity
of the urban poor through integrated programs involving marketing, technical
assistance, credit, land and services to existing and new small enterprises;
and (d) strengthening the abilities of the MMC and local governments to plan,
develop and finance public works and services.
2.02      The First Urban Project initiated the concept and tested the imple-
mentation of slum upgrading and new serviced sites in the Philippines and the
Second Project extended this approach to the regional cities. The time is now



- 15 -
ripe to expand this approach on a program basis to address all the large slum
and squatter areas and the project will be a major contribution to redressing
the balance of investment towards the poor in the MMA. The institutional
arrangements for planning and control of five major interlinked programs will
serve as a model for effective planning and management of multi-sectoral
programs under consideration in other cities in the country.
B. Project Components 1/ (Map 14588)
2.03 (a)  Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP):  ($43.3 million). Provision
of tenure and basic services, health, educational and community
facilities and home improvement loans to low income unserviced
settlements covering about 160,000 people or about 12% of the
existing ZIP population, on 13 sites over a three year period.
Recovery of on-site costs (including land acquisition) would be
effected through lease and sale of plots, and user charge revenues.
(b) Metro Manila Infrastructure. Utilities and Engineering Program
(MMINUTE):  ($29.2 million).  Priority investments to upgrade
basic services including drainage, sanitation, water supply
and street improvements to low income communities suffering
from bad ernvironmental conditions. Improvements are re-
stricted to existing rights of way and would not include
provision of tenure or movement of existing plots or build-
ings. As such it would proceed more quickly than ZIP and
reach more people, but would provide lower benefits per
household than ZIP. It is expected to reach about 300,000
persons during the project period. Costs would be recovered
through seirvice tariffs and fiscal revenues.
(c)  Sites and Services:  ($23.8 million). Provision of about
6,140 serviced plots on 79 hectares of land in sites ast the
city fringe, close to employment opportunities and within
affordable travel distance from the center. The component
would provide for about 30% of the un-met settlement needs
for low and moderate income families, (20th to 75th pe!rcen-
tile). The development would also include home imprcarement
loans, community facilities and serviced sites for small
business and commerce. On-site development and land acqui-
sition costs would be recovered from the beneficiaries.
(d)  Livelihood:  ($11.4 million).  A comprehensive effort involv-
ing various technical solutions to improve the incomes, pro-
ductivity and employment opportunities for the urban poor
living in or close to ZIP and MMINUTE areas. Assistance with
marketing, management, buildings and equipment and small
amounts of working capital, land and services and manpower
training, to micro and small businesses and productive co-ops
and associations. Costs would be recovered from beneficiary
enterprises.
1/   Costs include physical and price contingencies.



- 16 -
(e)  Solid Wastes Management:  ($5.0 million).  Provision of
equipment for a program of drain cleaning and door-to-door
collection of household refuse from congested low income areas
where collection is presently very poor; support for the waste
recycling program of the MMC, and improvement of waste collection
from .arkets. The program would commence with a pilot in the
first year to cover 5,000 households, expanding over the sub-
sequent two years to reach 48% of the 250,000 families which do
not have a door-to-door service.
(f) Technical Assistance: ($7.3 million). Assistance, (i) to MMC
and the local governments to develop their organizational struc-
ture, administrative and financial systems and to improve coor-
dination in investment planning; (ii) to MPW in coordination with
NEDA and MHS to (a) extend investment programming for municipal
infrastructure to selected regional cities, and initiate the
formulation of a national sanitation plan, and (b) review the
building materials and construction industry to assess its cap-
ability to meet future demand; (iii) to MPH to continue imple-
mentation of the traffic management scheme; and (iv) to MHS MPW
and NEDA for feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for
projects in regional cities.
C. Detailed Features
ZIP site selection and development
2.04      The ZIP sites in the project (Map 14588) have been selected from
those eligible for upgrading according to criteria based on (a) worst environ-
mental conditions including lack of water, and sanitation facilities, flooding
problems and high densities, (b) lowest income areas, (c) linkage potential
with offsite infrastructure, and (d) the capability of NRA, MMC and the local
governments to implement the works. Within these criteria sites were selected
which were the best prepared and where the communities were fully involved in
the planning process. A good distribution across participating local govern-
ments was also sought with emphasis on those who showed the greatest interest
in the program. The distribution of sites in the project is as follows:
Project    Area      Families      % of total
Sites     (ha)    in Project       Families
Manila               2        12.8       4,380          15.1
Quezon               2       15.6        2,570           8.8
Pasay                2       28.7        4,130          14.2
Caloocan             1       43.4        7,400          25.5
Sub-Total            7      100.5       18,570          64.0
6 Municipalities       6      103.9       10,447          36.0
TOTAL               13      204.4       29,017         100.0



- 17 -
Land has already been acquired for seven sites of which there are four where
physical works are also underway to appropriate standards. The enactment of
the recent Urban Land Reform Laws will assist speedier land acquisition. A
legal right to obtain the land with physical possession for the remaining
sites to be developed in the first year has been obtained by NRA.
2.05      Development would emphasize self-help, affordable standards and com-
munity participation. The Residents Councils and the Block Committees will be
involved in discussionLs to elicit their felt needs and to respond to their pre-
ferences for site layouts within criteria of their affordability and of main-
taining average costs.. The possible range of component improvements would
include registration of individual plots, footpath access to each plot, indi-
vidual or communal water supply and sanitary toilets, surface water drainage
and minimum road construction, street lighting, schools, clinics, community
centers and markets, and building materials loans of up to P2,500. Electri-
city would be providedl on demand to plot lessees who could afford the service.
Land Tenure
2.06      Letter of Instruction (LOI) 686 offers individual freehold title
within five years after project development to the structure owners who are
presently renting or squatting on the land. However, some 20-302; of ZIP
households are renters - many of long standing. In central city areas this
proportion reaches over 60%, and some structures are occupied only by tenants.
Under present arrangemnents most of these families do not receive a share in
the ownership of the land or building and have no security of tenure, beyond
the present laws on rented property which are sometimes circumvented in order
to expel low income tenants.
2.07      Several possibilities emerge for those dense central ciLty sites
where the problem is severe. In some cases it would be feasible to create
a condominium for a single building and plot, where the occupant families
own a physical portion of the building and share a joint freehold title on
the land. Alternatively, land for a whole block may be owned freehold by a
cooperative consisting of the occupant families, each having a slhare of
the land asset in proportion to the space they occupy.  They couLd continue
to rent or lease from the structure owner but would secure their occupancy
through their interest in the land. In some cases, it would only be necessary
to require the formation of a tenants' association as a condition to upgrading
the areas in the expectation that the association could secure its members'
rights according to existing laws. These issues were discussed with Govern-
ment during appraisal and the following assurances were obtained from Govern-
ment at negotiations:: (a) Freehold title to the land will be offered to the
individual beneficiaries, or, where appropriate, to an association of benefi-
ciaries within five years, (but preferably immediately) after project develop-
ment, all in accordance with LOI 686. In the case of an association, agreement
between owners and renters on the principles of land tenure would have to be
reached before the whllole site is developed. The definition of the individual
beneficiary shall apply to those structure owners who occupy the structure and
have no more than one paying tenant family 1/ (no limitation on non-paying
sharers and individual renters). (b) Where structures are occupied by more
than one paying tenant family, alternative solutions which involve tenants in
ownership or leasehold of structures will be considered in addition to their
joint ownership of the land.
1/   A tenant family would comprise a married couple or a family with
children, but not individual single renters.



- 18 -
MMINUTE
2.08      This component is aimed at remedying critical deficiencies in basic
municipal services in areas not included in other urban improvement projects.
On the basis of a street by street analysis of the MMA, the MPW gas identified
a package of improvements required for each local government.    C! project
would involve 11 local governments and include 15 improvement areas represent-
ing the most urgent priorities (Map 14588). Sub-components would include
micro-drainage works to remove sewage and surface water and rehabilitation of
small rivers and canals, new public or grouped household toilets with septic
tank or sewer connections, repair and maintenance of existing public toilets,
installation of water supply network and public standpipes, and upgrading and
surfacing of local access streets. In addition to the capital works, the
project will also establish an effective maintenance system for local and
municipal infrastructure. The PROGRESS component of the proposed Bank-
financed Manila Sewerage Project, would be closely linked with the MMINUTE
and would be implemented by the same Program Office and District Teams.
Sites and Services
2.09      The sites and services component would develop land for settlement
by mixed low and moderate income families (20th to 75th percentiles) at the
city perimeter, close to employment opportunities and transport facilities.
Over half of the plots (3,300) would be developed in the conventional manner
by NHA on a 38 hectare site at Pasig in the eastern part of the MMA. The site,
which is presently in private ownership, is flat, free from flooding, with
good access to major city roads, and has ground water available (Map 14588).
Negotiations are underway to acquire the land which is expected to be in NHA's
control before the end of 1980 and well before physical works are scheduled.
2.10      The other half of the plots would be provided by private developers,
an innovation which will be tried in order to minimize public sector expendi-
tures and produce maximum leverage for Government investment. Other objectives
of involving the private sector are to utilize the skill and speed of the
private entrepreneur to accelerate land development for low income groups, to
eliminate costs and time of land acquisition by government, and to provide a
comparative evaluation of the relative efficiencies of public and private
development. The developers would prepare a feasibility study, assemble land,
develop the sites and market the plots, all to criteria and conditions laid
down by Government including location, sale price of plots and distribution to
beneficiaries according to target income percentiles. Government would provide
off-site infrastructure and community facilities and a loan for up to 35% of
construction financing. Qualified low income beneficiaries would be selected
by Government who would also guarantee the availability of long-term mortgages
through discounting to the secondary market administered by the National Home
Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC). Prospects for involving private devel-
opers in this type of project look good at present.  Nevertheless, it is a new
experiment and will have to be monitored carefully.  Agreement was reached at
negotiations on the conditions under which MHS would enter into a loan agree-
ment with a private developer.
2.11      Residentlal plot sizes would range from 55 m  to 130 m  with
an average of 70 m , to attract a mix of income groups (see Annex 4). The



- 19 -
smallest lots would be affordable with subsidy to families at the 20th per-
centile of the 1979 income curve for Metro Manila earning about P460 ($62)
per month. There would be a varying degreee of subsidy for families from the
20th to 50th percentileas paid by bene5iciaries from the 50th to 75th income
percentiles who would buy their 130 m  plots at market prices. Plots will
also be available for small industrial and commercial enterprises.. Each plot
will be provided with individual water supply, and individual toiLets piped to
community septic tanks.  Four types of on-plot development will be available
ranging from service connections, to a party wall core.  About 50 demonstration
units will be built to show alternative development approaches. The Government-
financed scheme would be planned in conjunction with a BLISS housing project
on an adjacent site in order to maximize the income mix of the total community.
Schools, clinics and community facilities would be provided in the project to
serve the whole community.
Loans for Building Materials
2.12      Loans estimated to range from P600 and P2,500 for ZIP beneficiaries
and up to P4,500 for recipients of new serviced sites will be made available
at 12% interest for ulp to 15 years to owner-builders, amounts depending on
affordability. About 40% of ZIP beneficiaries and 100% of sites and ser-
vices beneficiaries are expected to apply for the loan packages. NHA would
administer the loans for the ZIP and government developed sites and services
programs and the MRS will administer those for the privately developed ser-
viced sites. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the government would
advance funds on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to a financial
intermediary for the purpose of loans for building materials for on-lending
to beneficiaries.
Community Facilities
2.13      The community facilities to be provided, taking into account the
availability of existing facilities are estimated below.  The criterion for
estimating these facilities is described in Annex 4.
To ZIP     To New Serviced Sites
Sites     (Government & Private)
Primary School Classrooms                 85                128
Secondary School Classrooms               -                  56
Health Centers                             6                  3
Barangay Community Centers                12                  6
Markets                                    4                  2
Planning and Design Standards
2.14      Planning standards incorporating a "minimum'" and "desired" level
of service have been developed (Annex 4) which allow for variations between
sites, and incorporate community preferences within constraints of afford-
ability. Volume controls on costly elements such as roads have been incor-
porated. Minimum relocation and minimum movement of dwellings will be a
planning objective on ZIP sites. Planning and construction standards and
unit cost parameters have been agreed with government for the ZIP, MMINUTE
and sites and services programs and contracts involving per plot unit costs



- 20 -
falling outside this range will be submitted to the Bank for approval before
bids are invited (Annex 4). Site layouts of typical ZIP and MMINUTE Sites are
shown on Maps 14665 and 14666.
Livelihood
2.15      The Baik's Industrial Sector Report (July 1979) identifies small-
scale and cottage industry as having excellent potential for expanding the
production of labor-intensive manufactured export items and for increasing the
productivity and employment of the urban poor. The Government has assigned
a high priority to both of these objectives. Shoes, furniture, mechanical
engineering, handicrafts and garments comprise the major activities with most
potential but their expansion is often curtailed due to haphazard marketing
promotion and outlets, inability to obtain credit and constraints in working
space and equipment. Quality is usually good but production is erratic.
There are numerous organizations, both government and private, operating to
assist small business, some of whom are experienced and effective in their
particular field. However, there is much dispersion, overlap and fragmenta-
tion of delivery. In many cases projects are insufficiently justified, the
urban poor insufficiently targeted and the vital links between the individual
firm, other firms, the potential of the sector and the marketing and promotion
of products, are lacking.
2.16      There is an urgent need for a central body to coordinate the work
of existing organizations to ensure that individual projects are in accord
with the priorities of the urban livelihood program and resource availability,
provide technical assistance, and to ensure that sub-projects are identified
and developed on the basis of a systematic demand and area analysis and work-
plan. After a careful review of the capabilities of individual agencies,
the Technology Utilization and Ventures Development Division (TUVD) of the
Technology Resource Center (TRC), a Government-owned corporation, was selected
as the lead agency, having staff with the capabilities and experience for this
task and the interest to develop it. Under the project, TRC/TUVD would: (i)
receive funds from the Budget Ministry as equity; (ii) develop an overall
economic development action plan for the component for Metro Manila from which
sub-project alternatives are identified and cleared for relevance and consis-
tency with NHA and the Project's Management Coordination Board; (iii) conduct
sub-project feasibility studies and/or guide other executing agencies in
project preparation and submit project summary forms to the Bank for review;
(iv) release funds for the sub-project to the executing agencies as loans and
also invest its own equity in specific sub-projects and (v) monitor the opera-
tion of the component, and recover funds, where appropriate. TUVD would
liaise very closely with NHA and the ZIP District Teams, especially where its
sub-projects would be located in ZIP sites. The livelihood component could be
introduced before or after physical upgrading, depending on local conditions.
2.17      The elements to develop the livelihood component would be technical
assistance, buildings, equipment, land, services, training and term credit for
micro-enterprises. Term credit for SSEs would be provided from sources already
existing in the Philippines. These elements would be packaged by TUVD into
sub-projects which would be defined from the overall economic development
action plan. Sub-projects may involve several executing agencies. For
example, NHA may provide engineering design and construction supervision,
National Cottage Industry Development Authority (NACIDA) and National Manpower
and Youth Council (NMYC) contribute training and skill upgrading, Metro Manila
Barangay Industries Development Program (MMBIDP) may provide management and



- 21 -
technical assistance, and Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) working
capital and credit. Over the past 4 months TUVD in conjunction with other
agencies has prepared 6 sub-projects including: (a) three production centers
which will be located in ZIP sites to train and employ residents, primarily
women, to produce slippers, knitwear and high-speed sewing. Marketing
arrangements have been made with local exporters and specific foreign buyers.
Three hundred jobs would be created and 700 persons trained at a cost of
P-=3.3 milion, (b) 15 existing credit unions would be strengthened1 in ZIP
sites primarily for channelling supervised credit to micro-enterprises operated
by the community, with assistance from Philippine Business for Social Progress
(PBSP) and University of the Philippines Institute for Small Scale Industry
(UPISSI), capitalized at P0.13 million each, (c) 450 micro-enterprises would
receive technical assistance and credit delivered by PBSP. Nine hundred
jobs are expected to bie created at a capital cost of P1.3 million., and (d)
arrangements for sub-contracting brokerage have been established with PBSP,
to match large with small firms, provide technical assistance, quality control
and F3.1 million of private working and investment capital for micro-
enterprises not presently available through other channels.
2.18      The above sub-projects average a financial rate of return of 33% and
90% of the project costs benefit the urban poor. Further sub-projects along
similar lines are being developed by TUVD in conjunction with NHA,, UPISSI,
PBSP, DBP and private associations and will be reviewed by the Bank after pre-
paration. These include inter-alia, common service facilities for storage,
training and credit and an associated mini-industrial park. TUVI) appraises
sub-projects according to criteria acceptable to the Bank includLng (i) tech-
nical economic and financial viability (financial and economic rate of return
above 18% expected), (ii) ability to create low-cost jobs and/or increase
incomes, (iii) recovery of costs at a positive interest rate, and (iv) urban
poverty impact.  Details of these criteria are on the project file.  Formal
agreement on specific eligibility and appraisal criteria for sub-projects were
reached at negotiations, together with arrangements for disbursing and collect-
ing loans to micro-enterprises.
Solid Waste Management
2.19      Solid waste generation in the MMA is estimated at 3,700 tons/day,
or 0.5 kg/capita/day. However, only about 65% of the waste is collected and
disposed, the remainder left on the ground, dumped in canals or rivers, or
burnt in small piles, causing high fire risks. The resulting problems of
sanitation and fire are particularly severe around the 105 markets in the
MMA and in slum and squatter areas where garbage collection by truck is in-
efficient or not possible.
2.20      Under the project, a new planning unit would be established at the
central office of tbhe Environmental Sanitation Center (ESC), the MMC's waste
management authorityr and the operating units of the four existing districts
would be strengthened. ESC would manage the equipment and servicing facili-
ties to be provided to transport wastes from public areas and to collect, on a
door-to-door basis, solid waste from about 120,000 families presently without
service, and to improve waste collection around 14 markets. Waste separation
into dry and wet wastes by households would be promoted and the MMC's existing
dry waste recycling program which establishes sorting areas would be supported.



- 22 -
The project would study and develop efficient collection systems at the
neighborhood level and would complement a concurrent metro-wide study which
will focus on routing, macro-collection and disposal. The project would
provide handcarts for waste collection and drain cleaning, refuse transfer
points, 25 trucks, and about 36 small sorting yards for waste recyzling.
Technical Assistance and Training
2.21      In addition to assistance for project design and supervision, a
package of technical assistance has been developed to help strengthen the
policies and management related to metropolitan government in the MMA and
selected regional cities, and to expand project preparation to other cities.
This package is complemented by assistance already programmed under Urban
II. 1/ To the maximum extent possible, employment of local consultants would
be encouraged. Approximately 551 man-months of foreign technical assistance
and 529 man-months of local assistance would be employed at typical costs of
$8,000 and $4,000 respectively. The following items are included:
2.22      To MPW:  (a) Review of Construction Industry - 32 man-months over
one year for a building economist and engineer to assist MPW and MHS to
assess the capacity and costs of the building materials and construction
industry in view of the projected rapid expansion in building construction
and to propose policies and actions to relieve constraints; (b) Infrastructure
Programming - 150 man-months over a one year period to assist MPW and NEDA in
expanding the "MMINUTE" and "CIF" approach to need analysis, project identifi-
cation, prioritization and budgeting of urban programs on a national basis and
to selected regional cities ('PREMIUM' program) and to subsequently develop a
national strategy to program investments in sanitation.
2.23      To MMC:  (a) Metropolitan Management - 161 man-months over 2 years
of specialist assistance to the MMC, and MMA cities and municipalities to help
develop and organize critical areas of metropolitan management including staff
organization and training, accounting, budgeting and monitoring, further
development of the CIF into a metropolitan planning and capital works budget-
ing system, development of a data base for service delivery, improvements to
revenue collection performance, debt management and loan packaging. In addi-
tion, study visits are included for tax assessors, purchasing officers and
municipal engineers.
2.24      To MHS:  Feasibility Studies - 713 man-months over a 2 year period
to assist MHS, NEDA and MPW to prepare and initiate supervision of multi-
sectoral projects in regional cities. Assistance will be required on project
planning, engineering, financial and economic analysis and industrial estates
development.
2.25      To Ministry of Public Highways (MPH):  Traffic Management - 24
man-months over 1-1/2 years to complete the design and supervision requirements
for traffic management, road improvements and signals initiated under Urban I.
1/   Including 40 man-months consultant assistance to the Technical Secre-
tariat through MHS to develop programming, accounting and monitoring
systems for the project as a whole.



- 23 -
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Project costs estimated at approximately P888.00 million 1/ ($120.00
million) are summarized in Table III-1. Cost estimates for the principal
project components are based as follows: (1) for ZIP on detailed engineering
designs prepared for sites to be implemented during the first year of project
execution and representing the range of ZIP site layouts and service levels.
Phased site acquisition costs are based on market values; (2) for MMINUTE -
detailed engineering designs for Zone 14 which represents the range of im-
provements included under the program, and preliminary designs for all other
project areas; (3) foir sites and services - on recent bids submitted for Dagat
Dagatan and on site acquisition costs estimated by private and public valuers;
(4) for solid wastes management - on management and equipment costs estimated
by ESC. Costs of technical assistance are based on $8,000/man-month for
foreign and $4,000/man-month for local assistance. Physical contigencies
are included at 10-15% depending on the level of engineering desLgn. Price
contingencies have been included at 10% declining to 7% through the project
period on foreign costs in accordance with current guidelines and at 22%
reducing to 7% for local costs on the basis of the most recent projections
of domestic inflation.
1/ A Presidential Decree (No.1177 of 1977) requires that Government owned
corporations shall pay income tax, customs duties and other taxes and
fees. However, so far no taxes have been levied on the government
corporations involved in project execution and the Government has indi-
cated that any taxes levied on these originally tax exempt corporations
will be refunded. Consequently no taxes or duties are included in the
project cost or financial projections.



- 24 -
PHILIPPINES: THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table III-1:  SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
P Million                       US$ Million                  Percent
----- -     -  ---- ---- ---- -  -- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- of    Foreign
Local     Foreign     Total        Local     Foreign     Total      Exchange
Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP)
Land Acquisition                                  93.52        -        93.52        12.64        -        12.64           -
Infrastructure                                    35.19      28.79      63.98         4.76       3.89       8.65          45
Service Connections & Core Units                  19.55      16.00      35.55         2.64       2.16       4.80          45
Piuilding Materials Loans                          5.35       0.59       5.94         0.72       0.08       0.80          10
Community Facilities                               4.61       3.08       7.69         o.62       o.42       1.04          40
Design & Supervision Services                      2.20       3.91       6.11         O.30       0.53       o.83          64
160.Z      352.37     712.79        21.6B      T77.08    -277i
Metro-Manila Infrastructure, Utilities &
Engineering   (MMINUTE)
Water Supply                                       8.14       9.95       18.09        1.10       1.34       2.44          55
Sanitation                                        13.60       9.07      22.67         1.83       1.23       3.o6          40
Combined Sewerage                                 16.92      13.85      30.77         2.29       1.87       4.16          45
Minor Street Improvements                         31.14      13.34      44.48         4.22       1.80       6.02          30
Major Drainage & Flood Protection                  3.71       3.04       6.75         0.50       0.41       0.91          45
Majcr Street Improvements                          2.16       1.16        3.32        0.29       0.16       o.45          35
Topographical Surveys                              0.93       2.18       3.11         0.13       0.29       o.42         70
Maintenance Equipment                              4.20       9.81      14.01         0.56       1.33       1.89          70
Design & Supervision Services                      3.20       2.13       5.33         0.43       0.29       0.72         40
8W.00     -6.5-53    T14.53       11.35       T.72       20.07
Sites and Services
Land Acquisition                                  15.20        -        15.20         2.05        -         2.05           -
Site Preparation                                   P.45       2.01       4.46         0.33       0.27       o.60          45
Infrastructure                                    10.76       8.80      19.56         1.46       1.19       2.65         45
Service Connections & Housing Units               10.96       8.97      19.93         1.48       1.21       2.69          45
Community Facilities                               7.61       5.07      12.68         1.02       o.69       1.71         40
Building Materials Loans                          26.73       2.97      29.70         3.62       o.40       4.02         10
Construction Loans                                10.21       4.80      15.01         1.38       0.65       2.03         32
Design & Supervision Services                      o.44       2.16       2.60         o.o6       0.29       0.35          83
-                         =rS4.36    -§hT~~~~~~~~~~~_7_9   -11-9-.14  11.40  4.v70  16.1lo
Solid Wastes Management
Land                                               3.70        -         3.70         0.50        -         0.50          -
Pilot Extension Programs                           2.10       2.56       4.66         0.28       0.35      o063           55
Vehicles & Equipment                               5.62       8.79      14.41         0.76       1.19       1.95          61
Education & Training                               1.24       0.31       1.55         0.17       o.o4       0.21          20
Design & Supervision Services                      o.36       1.08       1.44         0.05       0.14       0.19         74
13.02      12.74     -2-5           T.77       1.72     - B7R7
Livelihood
Mini Industrial Park                               6.94       5.67       12.61        0.93       0.77        1.70         45
Production Sub-Contracting                         9.86       6.57      16.43         1.33       0.89       2.22         40
Community Banking for Micro-Enterprises            3.67       0.41       4.o8         o.49       o.o6       0.55         10
Studies & Training                                17.09       5.10      22.19         2.31       0.69       3.o0         23
Design & Supervision Services                      o.4s       1.77       2.22         0.07       0.23       0.30          77
3.0o1      19.52      57.53        5.13    ~     1I       7.77
Technical Assistance and Training                    13.92      34.78       48.70        1.88       4.70       6.58
Sub-Total                                        393.73     218.72     612.45       53.20       29.56      82.76
Contingencies
Physical                                          27.63      22.16      49.79         3.74       2.99       6.73
Price                                            155.56      70.20     225.76        21.02       9.49      30.51
576.92     311.08     888.oo       77.96       42.o4     120.00



- 25 -
Unit Costs
3.02      Unit costs for ZIP and new serviced sites are as follows:
RESIDENTIAL UNIT COSTS /1 (Dollars, July, 1979)
Per /2      Per /3      Per /3
Lot         Family      'Capita
ZIP
Land                                  788            464          84
Off-Site Infrastructure                41             24          4
On-Site Infrastructure                544            320         58
On-Lot Development                    325            191         35
Community Facilities                   70             41          7
Total                         1,768          1,040         188
Sites and Services
Land and Site Pr,-paration            812            625        114
Off-Site Infrastructure               124             95          17
On-Site Infrastructure /4             704            542         98
On-Lot Development                    725            558        101
Community Development                 328            252         46
Total                         2,693          2,072         376
/t   Includes physical contingencies, design and supervision.
/2   Includes new infill sites in ZIP areas.
/3   5.5 persons per family.  1.7 families per plot in upgrading areas
and 1.3 families per plot in sites and services areas.
/4   Includes drainage and water reticulation, roads, footpaths,
sanitation and street lighting.
B. Financing Plan
3.03      The proposed loan of $72 million would finance 60% of total project
costs including land. The loan would cover 100% of the foreign exchange
requirements estimated at about $42.0 million equivalent, together with about
38% of local costs, thereby assisting government to initiate these high
priority programs during a period of severe resource constaints. The loan
would be made to the Government of the Philippines, who would bear the
Foreign exchange risk, for a term of 20 years including a five-year grace
period at an interest rate of 8.25%.



- 26 -
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Funding Sources
Central Government Contri-
World Bank Loan passed on as    bution passed on as
Budgetary                   Budgetary  Project
Total /1                  Appropr-                  /1 Appropr-   Reve-  /5
Cost       Loan  Equity  iation        Loan  Equity  iation       nues
Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP)    43.27    17.54     -       3.07       18.40     -       3.50        .76
Metro Manila Infrastructure       29.23       -        -     18.38-       -        -      10.85        -
Utilities & Engineering (MMINUTE)
Sites and Services                23.76L2   10.60     -       4.84/4     2.22      -       1.26       4.84
Solid Wastes Management            5.02      3.25     -        -         1.52      -      0.25         -
Livelihood                        11.37       -      6.59    0.38         -       3.40      -         1.00
Technical Assistance               7.35       -       -       7.35        -        -        -          _
120.00     31.39    6.59   34.02       22.14    3.40   15.86         6.60
/1  Represents project capital investment costs.
71  Includes government funding for privately developed sites and services for off-site
infrastructure and on-site Lommunity facilities, construction finance to the developer
and building materials loans to residential beneficiaries.
/3  Of this amount, US$15.96 million would be converted into loans for facilities created under
the project which are transferred to MWSS (US$5.89 million) for water supply and combined
sewerage works and to MC (US$10.07 million) for sanitation and street works and for maintenance
equipment.
/4  Of this amount US$1.64 million represents short-term construction finance to be provided
through MHS to private developers.
/5  Represents repayment of principal only including down-payments during project execution period.
3.04        Out of the proceeds of the loan Government would make available to
NHA US$31.26 million, including US$26.33 million as a loan, to finance project
expenditures and building materials loans under ZIP and government sites and
services programs and US$4.74 million to MMC including US$3.25 million as a
loan to finance project expenditures related to solid wastes management and
technical assistance. Government will institute a subsidiary loan agreement
with NHA and MMC to formalize these arrangements and provide for these loans
to be made available on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
US$1.81 million will be on-lent to an accredited financial intermediary to
finance building materials loans to beneficiaries of the privateLy developed
sites and services. A further US$6.59 million would be provided as equity and
US$0.38 million as a grant to TRC under a subsidiary investment agreement to
finance loans to and investments in small business and credit unions. The
balance of US$27.22 million would be provided as budgetary appropriations
to MPW ($18.38 million) for works under the MMINUTE program; to MHS ($2.98
million for the privately developed sites and services and various agencies
($5.86 million) for technical assistance.



- 2 7 -
3.05      On completion, improved ZIP sites will be transferred to respective
local governments who will collect plot charges from project beneficiaries and,
together with MMC will assume responsibility to discharge debt incurred by NHA
under the ZIP program. MMC will also assume debt liability for sanitation and
minor street improvements and maintenance equipment provided under the MMINUTE
Program. MWSS will assume debt servicing responsibility for water supply and
combined sewerage systems also provided under the MMINUTE program.  Annex 5
shows the residual disposition of the Bank loan.
3.06      Loans to small scale enterpreneurs would carry an interest rate of
14-18% except for seed capital to credit unions, to be consistent with exist-
ing procedures.  Mortgages and building materials loans under ZIP and sites
and services programs would be advanced to beneficiaries at 12% in accordance
with existing practice.
3.07      Design work is proceeding quickly on ZIP and MMINUTE and physical
works commenced in November/December 1979 in order to make maximum use of the
construction season. Retroactive finance not exceeding $3.5 million equivalent
is recommended for expenditures incurred from July 1, 1979 on civil works and
on consultant advisory services.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization, Management and Monitoring
4.01      The proposed project involves five priority programs in Metro
Manila, all of which are closely interrelated. In addition, the 'PROGRESS'
component of combined sewers which would be implemented through the Bank-
financed Manila Sewerage Project would also be integrated into the management
and institutional structure described here. Project implementation has been
discussed extensively with Government and a document defining implementation
procedures was agreed at negotiations. A Management Coordination Board (MCB)
has been established under the project in order to ensure effective coordina-
tion between the agencies involved in executing these long term programs,
and to strengthen the emerging system of local administration in Metro Manila.
The ZIP, MMINUTE and PROGRESS programs involve physical development on numer-
ous sites throughout the MMA and for this reason a program office has been
established for ZIP and another for the joint administration of MMINUTE and
PROGRESS to provide overall management. The implementation ancd supervision of
works on specific sites are the responsibility of District Teams which cover
the local governments of the 4 districts of Metro Manila and advance the moves
already made by the MMC to consolidate certain local government functions
into districts each headed by one of the four cities of the MNk. Due to the
differences in the programs, the District Teams have separate staffs for the
ZIP and MMINUTE programs and report to their respective Program offices.
Chart 20842 outlines this institutional structure, much of which is already in
place and is presently implementing ZIP and MMINUTE projects through locally



PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URBAN III INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE
FOR ZIP AND MMINUTE PROGRAMS
Office of              Ministry of                                                Ministry of               Agenal                 anistrie
the GovernorHuman                                                           PubMinistrrko               Line                  of Budget
the Governor     ~Settlemnents                I                               ulcWrsAgencies                                   and Finance
MANAGEMENT
COORDINATION
BOARD
.  L + ._ | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Excuie Com mittee
MMC                     NHA                        Technical                 for MMinute/Progress
Secretariat                MPW/MWSSIMMC
Local                   Z                                                      M  Program  Office  -     Program
GovernmentsPrgaOfie0
Governments  ]   g  Office      ||MMinute /Progressl 
a. Office of the                                                                                                Metro
Mayor                                                                                                        Maniia
b. Development                                                                                                 Offices
Staff
c. Barangay                                   District                District
Chairman                                   Offices                 Offices          --          - - -        Design
ZIP              MMinute/Progress
Barangays                                                                                               *Construction
Reporting
-    -  -  Liaison and Coordination                                                                                                World Bank - 20842



- 29 -
supplied funds. The MCB would also serve as the forum for the yearly review
of the Capital Improvement Folio (CIF) and gradually be expanded to serve as
the MMC's planning and review board for all the public investment programs in
the MMA.
Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP)
4.02      The NHA will be the lead agency for the ZIP and will be responsible
for policy formulation, implementation guidelines, coordination of the yearly
program, providing supervision and technical support to the District Teams,
receiving funds from the Ministry of Budget, preparing and signing agreements
with the MMC and local governments for project implementation, and acquiring
land for project sites. The management of these functions will be undertaken
through its Program Office whose Director will report to the NHA General
Manager, and to the Technical Secretariat of the MCB on matters c:oncerning
program budget and coordination. The content of a standard Memorandum of
Agreement between NHA, MMC and the local governments for project implementa-
tion was discussed at negotiations and it was agreed that the Bank would be
consulted on the final draft before its implementation. The ZIP for each
municipality is formulated by the Mayor with the assistance of the District
Team, and reviewed by the NHA Program office. Experience with ZIP has shown
that full project implementation by 17 local government teams is impractical,
especially for the small municipalities. Many of the implementation functions
for ZIP will therefore be consolidated into four District Offices, correspond-
ing to the districting already established by the MMC for certain functions.
The District Teams would: assist the Mayors with site selection, prepare
project information and feasibility studies, project planning and phasing,
community development: and liaison, detailed design works and contract docu-
mentation, supervision of project execution, disbursements to contractors,
costing and contract accounting. Site offices will be established by the
District Teams to provide the locus for the local government's promotion of
the ZIP and Livelihood programs and for community development workers, plan-
ners and engineers from the District Teams, program offices and municipalities
to interact with the Community Planning Councils and resident associations.
The supervision of physical works, collection of payments from beneficiaries,
technical assistance for self-help housing and for the livelihood program
would also be administered from the site offices. Already the ZIP program
office and local ZIP teams have been working closely with the residents of
each site to discuss their priorities for services, alternative layouts, costs
and their concerns over tenure.
4.03      NHA and most of the MMA local governments have been able to mobilize
adequate staff. The ZIP program office already employs 9 technical staff
including a program manager and there are 42 technical staff presently oper-
ating in the District level implementation teams which together with exper-
ienced staff which will soon be available from the Tondo office will provide
most of the key technical personnel for the scale of works expected to be
built in the first year. Further expansion of technical staff (3 in the
Program Office, 78 in the District Teams and 3 in NBA's Research and Analysis
Division (RAD)) will be required during 1980 for the preparation and monitoring
of the program for subsequent years. Personnel seconded to the District Offices



- 30 -
by the local governments and NHA would continue to receive salaries from their
respective offices, with supplementary allowances to bring remuneration to
adequate levels to be paid by NHA out of project funds. Problems in recruiting
additional staff are not anticipated. Consultant assistance will however, be
needed, especially at the ZIP program office. An engineer/plann-, financial
analyst/economist, municipal/sanitary engineer and local legal a<iisor, will
be employed over a two year period. In addition a local consultant site super-
vision engineer would be provided for each District Team, and one engineer
planner and one cost control engineer to assist all four teams. Staffing
needs for the Program and District Teams will be reviewed by NHA every six
months. ZIP District and Program staff will qualify for attendance at the
training office established by NRA. Agreement was reached at negotiations
on a program for recruiting key staff required.
Metro-Manila Infrastructure Utilities and Engineering Progran (MMINUTE)
4.04      The MPW is responsible for policy formulation, site selection,
definition of the yearly program, allocation of funds to local governments
and preliminary site designs through the joint MMINUTE/PROGRESS Program
Office. There will be a Program Director responsible for both MMINUTE and
PROGRESS who would report to an executive Committee comprising key officials
of the MMC, MPW and MWSS and to the Technical Secretariat of the MCB. There
will be a Project Manager for MMINUTE and another for PROGRESS in the
Program Office. Detailed design, contract documentation, supervision of
project execution, disbursements to contractors, job costing and contract
accounting would be carried out by the District Teams. The Program Office
and District Teams would also perform similar functions for the 'PROGRESS'
component of the proposed Manila Sewerage Project, and for this purpose
would be guided and assisted by MWSS, the lead agency for the component.
4.05      The District Teams are under the overall authority of the chief
engineer of the city which heads the District and each team will be headed
by a full-time Deputy Manager. The staff are contributed from the city and
municipalities and will be supplemented by additional key staff from MPW.
Staff will be paid appropriate supplementary allowances by MMC to bring
remuneration to adequate levels and to equalise pay for similar positions.
For the MMINUTE and PROGRESS Programs combined, 30 technical staff are
already working in the Program Office and 79 in the District Teams. A
further 50 technical staff in the Program Office and 121 in the District
Teams will be added during 1980.
4.06      Consultant support at the MMINUTE Program Office will include
one municipal engineer, one maintenance engineer and one local financial
analyst. At the District Team level there will be one local consultant
supervision engineer to each team. The program manager and the MMINUTE
project manager has been appointed for the Program Office, and a timetable
for appointment of deputy managers for each of the District Teams together
with the required staff increases for Program and District offices were
agreed at negotiations.



- 31 -
Livelihood
4.07      The lead agency for assisting small businesses would be the Tech-
nology Utilization and Ventures Development Division (TUVD) of the Technology
Resource Center (TRC). TUVD would be responsible for the overall planning
and sectoral analyses, sub-project identification and appraisal, selection,
supervision and coordination of executing agencies. Under the project, TRC
would pass on funds as loans to the executing agencies and specific businesses.
It would also commit its own equity as a partner in appropriate sub-projects.
Capital would be recovered by TRC or the executing agencies at comomercial
interest rates to form revolving funds for future sub-projects. 'Six sub-
projects have already been appraised and approved by TUVD and Bank staff,
and these would form the first group of projects to commence execution in
1980. Other projects are currently being identified. Separate accounts
will be maintained for each sub-project. For the first year TUVD will
continue to submit sub-projects they have appraised to the Bank for review,
before implementation.
4.08      The TUVD has appointed a project manager and a full-time staff
of six professionals are now working on this component. A further nine
technical staff will be added by June 1980. A degree of pre-planning and
specialist studies on industrial sectors and markets will need about 39
man-months of consultaLncy assistance and finance for this purpose is included
in the project together with training seminars and study visits. In addition
to the project cost, local funds of PI.3 million have already been authorized
for TUVD to undertake sectoral and feasibility studies for the project.
Sites and Services
4.09      NRA would implement the government-developed portion of the sites
and services component and a project manager has been appointed to head a
project office which would complete the design work and let contracts and
supervise construction. Staff for design and implementation are available
in NRA's Project Implementation Department, and on the transfer of ten of the
existing professional staff and subsequent hiring of a further six technical
staff were agreed during negotiations. Fifty-four man-months of consultant
assistance will be provided to assist in final design, construction management
and supervision and project accounting. NHA would retain responsibility for
maintenance of project facilities until the site is transferred to a municipal
jurisdiction. The National Home Mortgage Finance Corportion (NHMFC) would
provide 90% loans on the purchase price of the plots to qualified beneficiaries.
4.10      The unit to deal with the sites and services scheduled to be devel-
oped by the private sector would be located in the Metropolitan Planning
office of the MHS.  The MHS has extensive contacts with private developers
and currently guarantees secondary mortgage financing through its agency,
the NHMFC of up to P1].7 billion which could be tapped for project use. The
involvement of a mortgage institution which could offer 90% loans to all
qualified beneficiar:Les would be an important attraction to a developer in
his assessment of a market for development. The unit would be staffed by
six experienced professionals to develop detailed guidelines to promote the



- 32 -
program, evaluate and arrange contracts with developers, supervise their
operations and select beneficiaries. A timetable for recruitment of key
staff will be agreed by May 1980. Assistance in developing guidelines and
reviewing planning and engineering of developers' projects would be provided
by consultants i. site planning, engineering and finance from resources
available for MhS under Urban II. Agreement was reached at negotiations on
criteria for loan contracts between MHS and the developers.
Solid Wastes Management
4.11      The Environmental Sanitation Center (ESC) of the MMC would operate
and supervise this component. Overall planning and management of the compo-
nent would be the responsibility of the central ESC office and its operations
planning division is being strengthened for this purpose with eight new
professional staff. The four district offices which manage the day to day
operations of collection and maintain equipment will also be strengthened with
mechanical engineers and accountants. Consultant assistance would be provided
under the project to help develop and monitor the pilot program and the
subsequent extensions and would include a solid wastes engineer, financial
analyst and a sociologist. Appointment of a project manager and additional
staff for the planning groups was agreed at negotiations.
Inter-Agency Coordination
4.12      The Management Coordination Board (MCB) would be responsible for
the overall coordination of the five components included in the project,
and the PROGRESS component of the Sewerage Project, including review of their
financial and physical programs, and timing of implementation. The Board
would submit the consolidated budgets for the programs to the Budget Ministry
and prepares disbursement schedules from the Budget Ministry to the lead
agencies (para 4.25). The MCB will be chaired by the Deputy-Governor of
MMC, and members will include the General Manager of NHA, Assistant Ministers
of MPW, MOB, MOF, NEDA and the Assistant Secretary of MHS, the Director-
General of TRC and the General Manager of MWSS. The MCB will be assisted
by a Technical Secretariat which would supervise the operation of a manage-
ment information and accounting system and prepare regular periodic progress
reports for the executing agencies, MHS and the Bank. The chief of the
Executive staff of NHA, the Finance Commissioner of MMC, the heads of the
Program Offices and representatives from other ministries would comprise
the Technical Secretariat, together with a small full-time staff. Consul-
tants for program planning, monitoring and accounting would be attached to
the Technical Secretariat (para 4.29) to develop appropriate accounting and
monitoring systems. The Government brought to negotiations a draft Executive
Order establishing the MCB. Modifications to this draft were agreed and the
Government undertook to have a revised version acceptable to the Bank formally
signed before loan effectiveness, and establishment of the Board will be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan.



- 33 -
4.13      Monitoring project progress will be conducted at the site, District
Team and Program Office levels and coordination problems between the programs
resolved in the accounting and monitoring unit within the TechnicaLl Secre-
tariat. Monitoring and evaluation of the programs in relation to their impact
on the beneficiaries w:Lll be undertaken in a few selected ZIP, MMINUTE and
PROGRESS sites by the NHA's Research and Analysis Division (RAD) as a con-
tinuation of the monitoring conducted in the Tondo under Urban I, and in
conjunction with local consultants for the MMINUTE Program. The livelihood
component will be monitored and evaluated as part of TUVD's regular functions
in coordination with RAD. Close contact will be maintained with INEP's
experimental project in Barrio Escopa.
B. Executing Agencies
The Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS)
4.14      The MHS was established by Presidential Decree (PD 1396) in July
1978 to (i) develop and administer regional and urban human settlements
plans; (ii) promulgate! national standards and guidelines for land use plans,
zoning, infrastructure standards and building regulations and environmental
quality standards reliating to air, water, and wastes; (iii) develop plans,
programs, and implement directly or through agencies placed under it, housing
and urban renewal and development projects. Seven existing agencies and
corporations including the NHA were placed under the Ministry's supervision
for policy formulation and program coordination (Chart 20843). I'he Ministry
has also become active in developing and financing housing through its BLISS
and Mortgage Home Finiance programs.
4.15      In the project the Ministry would ensure that policies agreed at
negotiations are implemented and project execution proceeds to schedule. In
addition the MHS will undertake the management of the private sector develop-
ment of the sites and services program through its Metropolitan Planning
Office.
National Housing Authority (NHA)
4.16      NHA was established by Presidential Decree in 1975 to consolidate
planning, programming and implementation of a broad range of housing policies
and programs. NHA's charter (PD 757) provides basic policy directions and
stipulates general limits to NHA's jurisdiction. Subsequent decrees and
Letters of Instruction have expanded NHA's responsibilities, most recently
in the field of slum upgrading. NHA is governed by a Board of Directors
comprising the General Manager of the Authority, Government Ministers and
chaired by the Minister of Human Settlements. The General Manager is
appointed by the President.
4.17      During the past two years, NHA's responsibilities have focused
on slum upgrading and sites and services for low-income communities, prin-
cipally as the main executing agency for the two earlier Bank-fiLnanced urban



- 34 -
projects. These programs have demanded a high level of liaison with local
governments and other agencies which has increased the need for strong middle
management in the Authority to cope with program review, financial development
and project management. In response to these needs, NHA has recently re-
organized into three major departments relating to the major furrnions of:
(i) Forward Programming and Evaluation; (ii) Project Development; nd Imple-
mentation; and (iii) Administration (Chart 20838). Heads have been appointed
for each of these departments and the strengthening, recruitment and training
of staff provided for through Urban II is underway.
4.18      The Project Development and Implementation department has been
structured on units based on geographic lines relating to NHA's responsibi-
lities to local governments throughout the country. Project programming,
design and supervision is consolidated into these units. The ZIP program
office and the sites and services development office are divisions of the
Metro-Manila region of this department. Within the ZIP Program Office, a
program coordinator is responsible for liaison and management of each district.
4.19      The NHA has developed valuable experience in slum upgrading from
the Tondo project where over 200 staff now have experience ranging through
community development to site planning, engineering and supervision. Some of
these staff can now be used to strengthen the ZIP program office and District
Teams. Staff in the ZIP program office also have extensive experience in
establishing the ZIP, negotiating with local governments and in supervising
project preparation. Several local governments with NHA assistance have now
established ZIP teams who have prepared feasibility studies for about 30
sites. An immediate action program has initiated urgent works on several
sites and on one site upgrading has been completed. About P75 million of
local funds has been spent during the remainder of 1979, and the ZIP is now
poised for a phase of rapid expansion.
Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
4.20      The Ministry of Public Works has recenty been reorganized and its
recent responsibilities for transport and communications have now been formed
into a new Ministry. The MPW has seven principal staff services: Planning,
Project Management Information System, Financial and Management, Building
Research and Development Staff, Rural Infrastructure Project Office and
Infrastructure Computer Center. It has four staff Bureaux, namely, Flood
Control and Drainage, Rural Water Supply, Buildings, and Ports Harbors and
Reclamation. Each of these bureaux perform planning, surveys and designs,
supervision of construction and operation and maintenance work. Implementa-
tion of projects is done by the regional offices which report directly to the
Minister. In addition, a number of important sectoral agencies and corpora-
tions are attached to the MPW for policy and program coordination. These
include the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage System (MWSS) which executes and
maintains the water supply and the piped sewerage system for the MMA. The
MWSS will be the lead agency for the Bank-financed Manila Sewerage Project.
The MPW has demonstrated a high level of competence in project planning and
in rapid construction of public buildings. The MPW also has a close relation-
ship with all the city and municipal engineers in the MMA which are paid by
the local governments, but selected and promoted by MPW.



- 35 -
4.21      The MMINUTE program was initiated by the MPW starting as a survey
of the severe deficits on a street by street basis throughout the MMA, then
developed into a series of investment packages representing the most urgent
priorities related to public health, sanitation and access. The office which
has done this work is now being expanded into the implementing Program Office
for MMINUTE and PROGRESS.
Technology Resource Center (TRC)
4.22      TRC was initially established as a Center under the Human Settlements
Commission to develop information systems. It later became an independent but
Government-owned Corporation and extended its activities to technology exten-
sion services to educational and community institutions particularly in rural
areas. Most recently in 1978 it moved into consulting and management services
to industry. This development is reflected in its three operating departments
(Chart 20844).
4.23      The Technology Utilization and Ventures Development Department has
attracted a high caliber staff from industry and business, all with several
years operating experience. They have focused on providing project management
services to assist small businesses to become more productive, including
developing financial and technical assistance packages for groups of small
and medium businesses and groups of small entrepreneurs and developing land
to provide production sites. TUVD uses existing financial institutions to
administer credit. Four projects have been established and TUVD is presently
negotiating a $20 million loan with the Japanese government for development
assistance to small businesses with high export potential. Arrangements have
been made with DBP to administer the loans to project beneficiaries. The team
for the livelihood component of the Bank-financed project is headed by the
TUVD department director with a full-time staff of six professionals in
business management, finance, and community development.
C. Flow of Funds, Budgeting and Programming
4.24      The system described below has been discussed extensively with
government and is designed to reflect the responsibilities of the agencies
involved in these programs and to expedite the channeling of funds.
4.25      Flow of Funds.  Releases from the Ministry of the Budget would be
made directly to agencies with lead responsibility for implementation of
individual components. Because of the established need to integrate execu-
tion of infrastructure works in order to facilitate efficient contracting
procedures, LOI 686 makes provision for all funding to be consolidated in
NHA for the ZIP comaponent and the government sites and services respectively.
Budgetary releases for ZIP would be advanced quarterly to NRA for allotment
to the ZIP Program Office. Education and health facilities and off-site in-
frastructure would be a charge on the budget of a responsible national agency
or local government and funding for these works would be advanced to NHA as
budgetary appropriations.



- 36 -
4.26      Because of the metro-wide nature of ZIP, NHA will enter into an
agreement with MMC and constituent local governments many of which indi-
vidually lack the legal borrowing capacity to contract the level of debt
implied by the ,-.ale of programs falling within their geographical jurisdic-
tion. This appioach would operationalize financial management of these metro-
wide programs at the MMC level. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that
the Memorandum of Agreement between NHA, MMC and local governments will be
discussed with the Bank prior to its implementation. The debt liability
relating to land acquisition costs, on-site infrastructure and on-lot facili-
ties including building materials loans would be transferred to be discharged
jointly by the local governments and MMC. Beneficiary charges will be re-
covered by MMC assisted by local governments. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that MMC would (a) earmark on behalf of local governments suffi-
cient borrowing capacity as is required from time to time for the implementa-
tion of the works included in the project as well as for the long-term ZIP,
MMINUTE and Solid Wastes Management programs and (b) establish a fund to
help discharge debt incurred by local governments to finance these programs.
The Commission on Audit (COA) is reviewing the basis of the legal borrowing
capacity of all local governments in the Philippines and agreement was also
obtained at negotiations that this review would be expedited and that the
Bank would be given an opportunity to comment on any proposed changes prior
to their implementation.
4.27      For the MMINUTE component, funds would be released directly to MPW
for allotment to the MMINUTE/PROGRESS program office for works to be under-
taken directly by the District Teams and allocated to MWSS for those water
supply and combined sewerage works it will execute directly. The Program
Office would release funds to the respective District Offices to meet contract
disbursements in accordance with a schedule of payments to be submitted
monthly. For the livelihood component, equity investments and budgetary
appropriations would be released directly to TRC to finance productivity
centers and technical assistance and to on-lend to entrepreneurs through
accredited financial intermediaries to be selected. For solid wastes manage-
ment funds would be released to MMC for ESC.
4.28      Programming and Budgeting.  The efficiency of the funding arrange-
ments will depend on the operation of effective and timely programming and
budgeting procedures. The budgetary process for the programs would need
to synchronize with the government's budgetary cycle. Based on preliminary
engineering designs, and in coordination with the District Teams and involved
national line agencies, the respective Program Offices for ZIP and MMINUTE/
PROGRESS and Livelihood would develop a one year budget and a three year
rolling program plan. The Technical Secretariat and the MCB would review the
scale and composition of these plans in relation to program priorities, and
in consultation with all involved agencies. Following this review, executing
agencies would make the required provision in their respective budgets which
would be submitted to the Ministry of the Budget by June 30 prior to the
fiscal year to which it relates. Supporting documentation should include
schedules of the quarterly cash flow requirements. Following its review and
consultation with NEDA, the Ministry of the Budget would issue an approval



- 37 -
in principle to the consolidated rolling program plan and would notify the MCB
of any revisions to these budgeted funds sufficiently before the start of the
fiscal year to enable the program to be adjusted. Projects would thus proceed
on a yearly cycle, illustrated for ZIP on Chart 20901.
Financial Management and Monitoring
4.29       In order to furnish financial, physical and administrative perform-
ance information to mLanagement in the District Teams, Program Offices, the
Management Coordination Board and other involved agencies, and to produce
project accounts, a central accounting and monitoring unit will be established
within the Technical Secretariat responsible directly to and represented on,
the MCB. In addition, an internal audit team will be established also res-
ponsible directly to the MCB. The accounting and monitoring procedures
currently operated by responsible agencies are presently being reviewed by
consultants, appointed by the MHS, who will design an integrated programming,
budgeting, accounting and monitoring system for project components.  The Bank
will review with government the recommended systems prior to implementation.
The appointment of a Financial Manager responsible for supervising the operation
of these systems, would be made in consultation with the Bank. Agreement was
obtained at negotiations that (i) program plan for each annual and three year
investment programs will be furnished to the Bank for review priLor to the
start of the year to which it relates; (ii) that audited project: accounts will
be furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the close of each
financial year; and (iii) that the Borrower will establish a monitoring system
for the project acceptable to the Bank.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.30       The project will be implemented over a four-year period, from
June 1, 1980 through June 30, 1984. Chart 20892 shows the implementation
schedule for various project components.
E. Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement
4.31       Contracts above $10,000 each for the procurement of equipment and
vehicles totalling about $3.0 million under the solid wastes management
component, and about $3.5 million under the MMINUTE program will be let
through international competitive bidding in accordance with B;ank guidelines.
A 15% margin of preference or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower,
will be applied to domestic bidders offering domestically manufactured goods.
Civil works contracts of a total estimated value of about $30.6 million will
be let to prequalified firms in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank for (i) all infrastructure works for ZIP and MMINUTE, including schools



PHILIPPINES: THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1980                            1981                             1982                             1983                              1984
Q1     Q2       Q3     Q4       Q1      Q2      03       Q4      01      02       Q3      04      Q1      Q2       03      04      01      Q2       03      Q4
1. ZONAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Site Selection
Program/Budget approval/release      _
Design and Contract Preparation     ...... ...
Tendering
Construction                            _
Land Acquisition                    ...... ..
Land Titling
2. MMINUTE PROGRAM
Site Selection
Program/Budget approval
Design and Contract Preparation     ....... .
Tendering
Conttruction                        ...... .......
3. SITES AND SERVICES
a) Government:                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
Land Acquisition              ,_
Design, Contract Preparation                                                                                                                                                                                              I
Tendering
I nf rastructure
Core Housing & Building
Materials Loans
Community Facilities                                                                                                 _             _ -              -
b) Private:
Evaluation of Developer's
Proposals
Development Contract Avward
Construction
Building Materials Loans
4. SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Pilot Projects
Extension of Household Collection
Market Waste Collection
Education & Training Programs
5. LIVELIHOOD
Sectoral Studies
Sub-Project Appraisals
Loan Disbursements/Supervision
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     ..... ....
Note:
---_    Project activity before loan disbursement.
........... Retroactively financed.                                                                                                              World Bank   20902



- 39 -
and clinics, and for sites and services executed by government; (ii) infra-
structure works, facilities and equipment for mini-industrial estates; and
(iii) civil works for solid waste management facilities. Because of the need
to undertake the work in small areas on the block-by-block basis working with
residents of the project communities, these civil works contracts of less than
$1.5 million each are not suitable for international competitive bidding and
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding locally advertised in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works contracts
for more than $1.5 mLllion each to a total value of about $9.0 million would
be eligible for international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines.
4.32      The prequalification procedures developed by appropriate government
agencies and the register of contractors will be updated annual:Ly with the
assistance of consultants. All contracts executed under the project would be
authorized by the relevant program office or national agency. Contracts to
value above P500,000 would receive a commentary and evaluation by the consul-
tants prior to contract approval. The Bank would receive from the government
copies of tenders and analyses of bids after placement of contracts, except
for contracts above $1.0 million and for community facilities over the value
of $45,000 which would be submitted to the Bank for review before bids are
invited.
Disbursements
4.33      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 85% against civil works
for ZIP and government developed sites and services and at 60% against all
other civil works against normal documentation. For equipment and vehicles
disbursements would be made at (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for those
which are directly imported, (b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for
those whic'h are locally manufactured, and (c) 65% of expenditures for those
which are locally procured. Technical assistance and training would be
disbursed at 100%. Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expendi-
tures for 60% of the small business loans to participating entrepreneurs and
for building materials and construction loans, certified by the Project
Director of the relevant agency. A maximum amount of $3.5 million is recom-
mended for retroactive financing for payments made after June 30, 1979 for
advance contracting for ongoing civil works in the ZIP and MMIINUTE programs
and for consultants' advisory services primarily to strengthen MMC and to
review infrastructure system requirements in regional urban areas. The
advance contracting involved would follow Bank procedures. Thie reimbursement
applications for the actual retroactive financing would be submitted to the
Bank as soon as the proposed loan becomes effective and is fully documented.
Copies of the relevant contract documents would be sent to the Bank as soon
as they have been executed.
4.34      The estimated schedule of disbursements is as follows:



- 40 -
US$ Million
Amount       Cumulative        % Cumulative
Quarter Ending                        Disbursed    Disbursements    Disbursements
June 1980                               3.5              3.5               4.9
September 1980                         0.5              4.0                5.6
December 1980                           0.6              4.6               6.4
March 1981                              0.8              5.4               7.5
June 1981                               1.9              7.3              10.1
September 1981                          2.9            10.2              14.2
December 1981                           4.2             14.4              20.0
March 1982                              5.2             19.6              27.2
June 1982                               5.6            25.2               35.0
September 1982                          6.2            31.4              43.6
December 1982                           6.5             37.9              52.6
March 1983                              6.8             44.7              62.1
June 1983                               6.5            51.2               71.1
September 1983                         6.4             57.6              80.0
December 1983                           6.6             64.2              89.2
March 1984                              5.2             69.4              96.4
June 1984                               2.6            72.0             100.0
F.  Operations and Maintenance
4.35      Maintenance of the project infrastructure and facilities will be
the responsibility of concerned agencies indicated in Chart 20871. Under the
MMC reorganization, the operation and maintenance functions for roads and
drainage will be primarily borne by the district engineering teams in coor-
dination with the associated line agencies. The MMINUTE program includes a
component for improved management and equipment for operating and maintaining
municipal services and facilities which will address the existing deficiencies
in addition to maintaining the project works. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that reponsible agencies will make adequate provision for the
operation and maintenance of services and facilities provided under the
project.
G. Supervision
4.36      Supervision of the project by Bank staff will require approximately
25 man-weeks of field effort per year for the first two years and 15 man-weeks
per year for the following two years. For every man-week in the field, approx-
imately 2 man-weeks of office work in Washington would be required.



- 41 -
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPERATIONAL ANID MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROJECT COMPONENTS
LOCAL                          NATIONAL               PRITE   OTHER
VATE
C             c
.2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  M  Lc  Ra  *i O
E  -D                                                         -J0 
c 5 c 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~ >io Loa Road     O                                                                   cC
>       >i                                         W         to    L U~
ID5'c5, 5)                   a.  er~£1   I   0   0 o       5J      S 
Operations/maintenance of Projectc Elements   ij    L   L        L 2.L       CD       l'-   Z   0   0   0               .t   L
Infrastructure and Related Services
Maintenance of Roads and Drains
-  Major Local Roads                                           00
-  Minor Local Roads                      0
Maintenance of Footpaths                   0                                                                          O
Primary Drainage Canals
Water SupplY
-  Piped System                           0                           O
-  Tanker Trucks                          *                           0
Sanitation
-  Combined Sewers                          0 O
-  On-plot/Communal Waste                                             0                                              O
Disposal System
Solid Waste (Wet or Mixed)
Collection and Street Cleaning                     -
Dry Solid Waste Recycling                            -
Electricity
Fire Hydrants                                                      0  0
Community Facilities
Barangay/Day Care/Nutrition Centers                      0   -
Elementary Schools                         *                                                   0
Secondary Schools                          *                                                   0
Health Centers                                            0
Livelihood Facilities
Mini-industrial Parks                                                                                                        -
Household Production Centers                                                                                                 O
Other
Parks/Open Space                                     0
0   Primary Responsibility     O  Secondary Responsibility
MMC         -  Metro Manila Corporation
MWSS        -  Metropolitan Water and Sewerage
System Authority
BPW         -  Bureau of Public Works
MPH         -  Ministry of Public Highways
MHS         -  Ministry of Human Settlements
(TRC: Technology Resource Center)
NHA         -  National Housing Authority
MOE         - Ministry of Education
MOH         -  Ministry of Health
MSSD        -  Ministry of Social Services
MERALCO  -  Electric Company
World Bank - 20871



- 42 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
5.01      In view of the variety of facilities and the differing service
levels provided under the project and recently established procedures in
the Philippines, both direct and indirect mechanisms are proposed for the
recovery of project capital costs (see Chart 20872).
5.02      Cost recovery for the ZIP and sites and services will follow the
principles established by Letters of Instruction (LOI) 555 and 557 as amended
by LOI 686, whereby the cost of land, on-site infrastructure, on-lot develop-
ment, and building materials loans will be recovered directly from beneficia-
ries. Land developed for industrial and commercial use will be marketed at
prevailing values. Community health and education facilities and off-site
infrastructure will be charged to the budgets of responsible agencies.
Communal water supply and environmental sanitation improvements provided
through the MMINUTE program differ from the ZIP in that they do not involve
the transfer of assets and costs would be recovered indirectly through the
MWSS tariff structure in accordance with existing procedures. Local street
improvements would be undertaken following agreement with affected property
owners on revision of assessed property values to recover capital costs
involved. All costs of capital and finance for the livelihood component would
be recovered, except for direct technical assistance to TRC. The mini indus-
trial estates would be leased or sold to entrepreneurs and small business
loans would be administered through financial intermediaries to be selected.
Direct technical assistance provided to individual enterpreneurs under the
component would be capitalized into costs recovered from them except in
the case of micro-enterprises where cost recovery would be determined by
affordability.
5.03      Under the arrangements outlined above some 70% of project capital
investment costs would be recovered from beneficiary charges and a further
8% through service tariffs leaving some 22% to be borne by government appro-
priations and fiscal revenues generally.
B. Terms to Beneficiaries and Affordability
5.04      Beneficiaries of ZIP and Sites and Services will be offered a 25
year transferable lease which includes an option to purchase the freehold
interest. For beneficiaries who purchase freehold title, 90% financing will
be available at 12% for 25 years. Although commercial financing institutions
are presently extending mid-term financing at about 19% interest, the 12% 1/
rate of interest proposed under the project is facilitated by the recent
1/   This rate is expected to become positive again in real terms in 1981/2
as government policies effect a reduction in the present high rates of
inflation.



- 43 -
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST RECOVERY
c
0
E      x
m      w'              >              C-5, 0
-C  ~ ~ t          >              <
0          0. 
c   -
DIRECT        INDIRECT        E
ZIP and Sites and Services
Land Acquisition                                      0
Site Preparation                                       0
Off-Site Infrastructure                                                                      0
On-Site Infrastructure                                 0
Service Connections and Core Units                     0
Building Materials Loans                                      0
Community Facilities                                                                         0
MMinute
Water Supply                                                                  0
Drainage! /                                                                  O
Sanitation2/                                                                          O
Street Improvements                                                   0
Maintenance Equipment                                                                 0
Topographical Mapping                                                                        O
Solid Wastes Management
Pilot and Extension Programs                                                                 0
Refuse Vehicles                                                                       0
Education and Training                                                                       0
Livelihood
Mini-industrial Estates                                       0
Equipment and Buildings                                       0
for Cooperatives/Assns
Studies                                                                                      0
Credit                                                        0
Technical Assistance3                                                                        0
1 / Identical to MWSS Progress Combined Sewers.
2/ Communal Facilities.
3J Design and supervison costs in ZIP/MMinute Sites and Services
programns recovered from beneficiaries.
World Bank - 20872



- 44 -
establishment of a secondary market under the auspices of the National Home
Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC). 1/
5.05      ZIP § tes included in the project have been selected as representing
the existing variety of density, tenure situation, environmental conditions
and range of incomes as indicated in the socio-economic surveys undertaken
during project preparation. Many centrally located sites comprise a high
proportion of structures in multiple occupancy by renters. In these cases
where issuing title to a single beneficiary would not adequately protect
existing residents, alternative arrangements will be implemented including
creating condominiums and cooperatives of occupant families to whom freehold
title to the land could be issued. The options and limits to these variations
were agreed at negotiations. Agreement was also obtained that the final sale
and lease prices for each ZIP site will be determined in consultation with the
Bank and announced prior to the start of construction at each site.
5.06      Affordability to beneficiaries is a principle design criteria.
Affordability would be measured on a per plot basis including renters and
multiple households and in the case of ZIP, would relate to the community as a
whole. In ZIP areas to be improved through the project, family incomes range
between P300 and R3,000 per month with a median of about P500 per month.
Beneficiary charges are designed to cover the land and servicing costs amor-
tized at 12% over 25 years. At an average of P68 per month this would be
affordable to families earning p340 per month ($46) which is below the 10th
percentile of the Metro Manila income curve.
5.07      The proposed pricing policy seeks to secure recovery of the long
run average financial costs of land which amount to about 45% of overall
costs of ZIP but which vary considerably between government owned sites which
would be transferred to the program cost free, to expensive privately owned
sites.  It was agreed at negotiations that a measure of equalization will
therefore be effected in land prices charged to beneficiaries by the pooling
of land costs and the establishment of three or four land price bands which
would reflect locational advantages and at the same time bring charges for
freehold title within affordable range for beneficiaries. In the past,
valuations of ZIP sites have tended to be affected by the higher value of
surrounding properties. In several cases ZIP sites have been re-assessed
in order to adequately reflect the service deficiencies and the fact that
the land use is effectively fixed and the marketability limited. This has
resulted in a 30% reduction in the value of sites already reassessed. Agree-
ment was obtained at negotiations that the Ministry of Finance would require
the Assessors of the MMC to re-assess ZIP sites on the basis of their existing
land use and service conditions. The large cash outlay required to acquire
the land by full initial payment of the purchase price would place a heavy
financial burden on the cash flow of the program. Government is therefore
1/   With authorized capital of P500 millions and commitments for the acqui-
sition of about P1.7 billion of NHMFC bonds and notes at a tax free
interest rate of 9-10%, establishment of this facility represents a
significant initiative in the rationalization of housing finance.



- 45 -
proposing to discharge the purchase price of individual acquisitions by
installments over about five years where possible. This procedure would
provide relief from capital gains tax to some landowners and it is felt that
about half the privately held land required for the program might be acquired
in this way. Alternatively some landowners would favor land trades with
government-owned vacant land.
5.08       The new sites and services component provides a range of lot sizes
and housing options to attract a social mix and provide for cross--subsidiza-
tion. As such, sites would be affordable down to the 20th percentile on the
Metro Manila income distribution. These sites would not be used for relocating
squatters, and the onily eligibility criteria would be that the applicant (i)
own no other residential property in the MMA, (ii) have family income in the
range specified for 'Lots of a given size. Final sale and lease prices for all
residential property and the method of plot allocation will be deltermined in
consultation with the Bank and announced prior to the start of colnstruction at
each site, and this was confirmed at negotiations.
PLOT COSTS AND BENEFICIARY CHARGES
Beneficiary Charges
Allo- /1             Monthly /2    Monthly    Affordable
Lot   No. of  cated       Safe      Charges        Income      at Income
Size   Lots   Cost/Lot   Price    per Family    Required    Percentile
In              P          P          P              P
ZIP Upgrading                       17000  12261      12261        68            340           10
Sites and Services
1) Executed by NHA
Type A                 55       700  13652        9696       92            460           20
Type B                 65      1750  14372       12772      114            570           30
Type C                 80       690  16150       17500      157            750           45
Type D                130       160  20743       32000                                   75
2) Executed by P'rivate
Developers
Type B                 65      1250  14372       12772      114            570           30
Type C                 80       690  16150       17500       157           750           45
Type D                130       900  20743       32000                                   75
/1  Includes land, infrastructure and on-lot development together with design and supervision and
physical contingencies,
/2  Based on average existing occupancy of 1.7 families per upgraded structure and single family
occupation for sites and services. The latter would probably absorb about 1.3 families per lot.
Deposits would be at 10% for upgraded lots and type A sites, 15% for types B and C sites and
type D sites would be sold outright at prevailing market rates.



- 46 -
C. Impact on Municipal Budgets and Program Replicability
Impact on Municipal Budgets
5.09      The investment requirements of the proposed project are considerable
in relation to the existing capital works programs of local governments in
MMA who would be responsible for discharging the debt to government on ZIP
development costs and of road works executed under the MMINUTE program.
This will require more extensive use of borrowing powers. Over the project
period project related debt would accumulate to some P520 millions, or about
12% of the present borrowing capacity of the local governments 1/ and would
involve annual debt servicing costs of about P40 millions or about 2-2-1/2%
of projected annual total local government revenues. This would increase
in subsequent years as principal repayments start to fall due but based on
anticipated progress in implementing the program overall and the proposed cost
recovery policy, revenues from beneficiary charges would be adequate to cover
the debt servicing costs. Since many local governments lack the borrowing
capacity implied by the scale of programs falling within their geographical
jurisdiction, agreement was obtained at negotiations that the MMC would
establish a fund to help discharge debt incurred to finance municipal respon-
sibilities under the ZIP, MMINUTE and solid waste management programs. Debt
management costs allocated amongst local government will reflect their rela-
tive program needs and financial resources.
5.10      In addition, local governments would become responsible for opera-
tion and maintenance and although some savings would accrue from improvements
provided particularly in MMINUTE, an overall increase in maintenance costs
is anticipated. However, based on the experience of the Tondo Foreshore area,
the value of properties would increase significantly when the structures are
upgraded. The areas improved through the project would be reassessed for
property tax purposes, and the resulting additional revenues are expected
to greatly exceed the increased operation and maintenance costs. These tax
payments would, nevertheless, represent only a small burden to the households,
in the order of P4 per month.
Replicability of ZIP
5.11      Based on unit costs estimated for the proposed project, the overall
program covering 30% of the total Metro Manila population would cost approxi-
mately $273 millions 2/ including community facilities. A 15 year program
would therefore require capital investments amounting to about $18 million
per year. Assuming a 5% annual increase in the target population, additional
expenditures of about $13 millions would be required to provide for expected
1/   Total loan debt outstanding at December 31, 1978 amounted to about P87
million ($11.7 million) leaving a residual borrowing capacity of about
F4.5 billion ($610 million).
2/   At 1979 prices.



- 47 -
growth and would result in total annual investments of about $31 millions.
This represents only 14% of the overall 1979 capital improvement program for
Metro Manila. Actual net investment levels, would however, be reduced by as
much as 90% through the sale of developed land to the beneficiariLes.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Benefits
6.01      The proposetd project supports Government's commitment to long-term
complementary metro-wide programs to alleviate the present chronic deficien-
cies in urban services; regularize land tenure; and provide opportunities to
increase incomes of the poverty group and make affordable shelter available to
meet the needs of the growing low income community. In addition, the project
would increase the institutional capacity to design, program and execute these
priority programs and to coordinate urban infrastructure planning generally.
6.02      The ZIP component represents an initial three year phase to provide
environmental infrastructure and community facilities in-situ at a scale suffi-
cient to service the target population within a reasonable period. The land
tenure base would be broadened to include tenants in multiple-occupation.
Under the project, about 160,000 persons (about 12% of the present ZIP popula-
tion) would receive services at a total cost of about $1,040 per family
($188 per capita). Costs would be largely recoverable against the issue to
beneficiaries of lease/purchase contracts thereby enabling repliLcability of
the program throughout the Metropolitan area. Through the program, the metro-
politan tax base would be expanded by bringing a significant amount of blighted
land into the urban economy. Based on increases in property values, a 42%
economic rate of return is estimated. This high rate of return is consistent
with that now experienced in Tondo (40%-50% IRR).
6.03      The MMINUIE component would provide basic infrastructure services to
about 300,000 people in some 15 priority areas. Community level improvements
provided through the component would include water supply, sanitation, drain-
age and street works and would represent the first significant increment in
the process of upgrading. As such it will proceed very quickly - particularly
since land tenure questions do not arise - and subsequent upgrading to provide
services to individual households can follow as first order priorities are
satisfied. An economic rate of return of 15%, based on increased property
values, is anticipated.
6.04      The Sites and Services component has been designed tc provide in
conjunction with the Dagat Dagatan Development, for about 30% cf the unmet
demand for affordable shelter from growth in the poverty group at an average
unit cost of $2,693 per lot (including community facilities). A small
proportion of serviced lots would also be made available to micidle income
families to encourage socially mixed communities and provide a measure of
cross-subsidization. In order to minimize land acquisitions problems, reduce



- 48 -
Government funding requirements, and mobilize the construction capacity and
marketing expertise of the private sector, about half the component is to
be executed by a private developer under Government's standards and design
criteria. This approach would provide a basis on which to review alternative
approaches to -ecuting these projects and the potential of private sector
involvement.  .In economic rate of return of 26% is anticipated, based on
appreciation of property values.
6.05      The livelihood component which would concentrate on ZIP sites but
not be restricted to them would create approximately 6,000 new jobs at approx-
imately $657 per job. Based on sub-projects presently appraised, a 48% IRR
is estimated.
6.06      For ZIP, MMINUTE and Sites and Services components which represent
about 80% of total project costs, the average weighted rate of return is
estimated at 26%. If labor costs are shadow priced at 84% of actual prices
to better reflect opportunity costs, the weighted average IRR would increase
to 29%. In addition, the project would generate 11,000 construction jobs of
which 75% are expected to be for the poor.
B. Urban Poverty Impact
6.07      An estimated 32% of families living in Metro Manila have incomes
below the urban poverty threshold. This group is growing at about 5% per
year. The project is designed to initiate metro-wide programs to service
the basic needs and increase the incomes of this target group. Improvements
provided through ZIP are designed to be affordable to the target group and
by 1983, some 160,000 persons will have been upgraded, of which according to
current surveys, about 80% would fall within the poverty group. The MMINUTE
component would extend access to basic services to a further 300,000 persons
of whom some 75% would fall below the poverty threshold. Over 80% of the
new sites would be targeted for and affordable to families below the poverty
level. Taken together these components would, during the project period
provide direct benefits to about 500,000 persons (28% of the projected
poverty group). The impact of these programs would have on the slum popula-
tion is shown on Chart 20842 and Map 14588. About 80% of those who will
benefit under the livelihood component are below the urban poverty threshold
and their incomes are expected to be augmented primarily through secondary
employment. Much of the considerable construction employment created through
the project would also benefit the urban poor. The pilot program for solid
waste management would concentrate largely on improved collection from low
income neighborhoods. Of the total project cost of $120 million, some 74%
(or $89 million) is directly attributable to the poverty group.
C. Project Risks
6.08      If the basic service needs of the slum and squatter communities
are to be addressed within a reasonable time the programs assisted under the



- 49 -
proposed project will have to develop quickly and be sustained at the substan-
tial scale projected iEor their fourth and fifth years. A rapid expansion of
three major community upgrading programs necessarily entails risks related to
management and coordination.  Moreover, operating procedures and administrative
relationships which have been agreed between project agencies have yet to be
fully operationalized. The upgrading approach of minimal reblocking, proposed
for the ZIP, is already proving successful in expediting provision of improve-
ments at Tondo Foreshore. Nevertheless, achieving the significalnt annual
increments in implementation will require a concerted effort on the part of
all involved agencies to mobilize adequate staffing resources ancd to assure
timely programming and funding for project works. The ZIP and NMINUTE programs
are ascribed high priority in Metro Manila and considerable stafiEing capability
has already been mobilized. The local teams established for each of the four
districts who will be primarily responsible for supervision of project works
are new but are organized around competent engineering staff appointed from
the principal local governments and national agencies. Additional staff will,
however, be needed with experience in contract supervision and management.
Additional strengthening for ZIP will follow transfer of experienced staff
from the Tondo Foreshore project, now possible because of the advanced stage
and rapid pace of development there. Consultant assistance will be provided
to the Technical Secretariat to establish the critical operating and monitor-
ing procedures and progrimming and engineering assistance to the program
offices and district teams will also be provided under the project. Recog-
nizing the complexities involved in administering a number of interrelated
programs, government has established a strong institutional structure to
coordinate management: of these programs. Expertise existing in the National
Housing Authority and the Ministry of Public Works has been mobilized for
policy planning, programming and technical design work. A consolidated budget
will also be prepared to minimize funding problems. These critical actions
should secure effect:Lve implementation of these programs.
6.09      ParticipatLon of the private sector as developers for part of
the sites and servicess component is a new initiative and as yet, unproven.
Nevertheless, if urbanization of open land is to proceed quickly enough to
absorb the expansion of low and middle income populations, the resources
of the private sector will need to be mobilized quickly and at scale. The
incentives offered including off-site infrastructure, community facilities,
government equity participation and most important, mortgage financing for the
plot purchasers are all elements which have not been available to developers
in the past. Using these opportunities, the developers should be able to
realize an attractive rate of return on the project. Careful formulation
of the guidelines for participation, vigorous evaluation of developers'
proposals, selection of a good project manager and careful monitoring would
secure effective management by the government.
6.10      Due in part to the fragmentation of agencies and also to the inherent
complexity of the sector, assistance to small businesses in the Philippines in
the past has been less than successful. The project will endeavour to over-
come this problem byt using a dynamic agency to select and manage appropriate
implementing agencies for employment sub-projects in order to offer a creative



- 50 -
and comprehensive service to small businesses. Sufficient funds and staff
would also be allocated to study the details of specific sectors and to
thoroughly prepare and appraise sub-projects.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a) The Management Coordination Board and Technical Secretariat will
be maintained and no changes in its representation, functions
and powers will be made except in consultation with the Bank
(para 4.12).
(b) The schedule for strengthening project programming, monitoring
and implementation offices with key staff with qualif:ications
and experience acceptable to the Government and the Bank (paras
4.03, 4.06, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.29).
(c) The three year and annual program for project sites will be
reviewed annually with the Bank (para 4.29).
(d) A monitoring system for the project acceptable to the Bank will
be established and maintained in the Technical Secretariat
(para 4.29).
(e) The Bank will be consulted on the final draft of the standard
Memorandum of Agreement for ZIP between NHA, MMC and the local
governments, before its implementation (paras 4.02 and 4.26).
(f) The MMC will (i) earmark on behalf of local governments, suf-
ficient borrowing capacity to ensure the long-term execution
of the ZIP, MMINUTE and solid wastes management programs (para
4.26); and (ii) establish a fund to help discharge debt incurred
by local governments to finance the above programs (paras 4.26,
5.09).
(g) The report on the nationwide review of the borrowing capacities
of local governments will be sent to the Bank by June 30, 1980
for comments prior to its implementation (para 4.26).
(h) The value of proposed ZIP sites will be re-assessed to more
realistically reflect their present use and bad environmental
conditions (para 5.07).
(i) NHA will carry out a study in coordination with MMC and MOF
to establish a system of land price zones to achieve a measure
of equalization for pricing ZIP land to beneficiaries (para 5.07).



- 51 -
(j)  Separate project accounts will be maintained within the
Technical Secretariat and a financial and technical audit
satisfactory to the Bank will be made of the project components
(para 4.29).
(k)  All livelihood sub-projects will be prepared and reviewed
in accordance with eligibility and appraisal criteria aLgreed
with the Bank (paras 2.17 and 2.18).
(1)  Site planning, servicing and community facilities standards
will be maintained to targets and variances agreed between
the Government and the Bank and the Government will contsult
with the Bank prior to undertaking any development of sites
which do not comply with the agreed standards (para 2.14 and
Annex 4).
(m)  Final sale and lease prices of all residential property and the
method of plot allocation will be determined in consultation
with the Bank and public announcement of said conditionas and
methodology made prior to the start of construction of each
site (paras; 5.05 and 5.08).
(n)  Prior to its approval the Government will consult with the
Bank on the proposed annual and three year investment program
in respect of the MMA (para 1.17).
(o)  The Governtment will cause its departments and agencies to
operate and adequately maintain the facilities constructed
under the project (para 4.35).
(p)  Funds will be advanced on terms and conditions satisfaLctory
to the Bank to financial intermediary(s) for the purpose of
on-lending loans for building materials to beneficiaries
(para 2.12).
(q)  Freehold title of the land in ZIP and sites and services areas
will be offered to the beneficiaries within five years of
completion of site infrastructure (paras 2.07, and 5.07).
(r)  Confirmation that the NHA has a right to enter and develop all
land in the first year of the ZIP and that this right will be
available for the government-developed sites and services site
by Decembetr 1980 (paras 2.04 and 2.09).
(s)  The conditions under which MHS would enter into a loan agreement
with a private developer (para 2.10).
(t)  The requirements for evaluating the socio-economic impacts of
the project (para 4.13).



- 52 -
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan will be:
(a) That the revised Executive Order establishing the Management
Coorlination Board and Technical Secretariat which was dis-
cussAd with the Bank at negotiations will be formally endorsed
and the Board fully established (para 4.12).
(b) The submission of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and NHA and MMC and a subsidiary investment agree-
ment between the Government and TRC.
7.03      With the assurances received on the points above, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $72 million for a term of 20 years including a
grace period of five years.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister
Deputy
Minister
Executive
Staff
Reports to
MCB for 
Privaelope        National                Regional____
Developed          Capital                  Local                  Specnal                                         Sheiter              Environment               Technical
. Region             Government                Projects                Admin.                 Systems                Management                Services
Sitrevs aend        FHSC                    HSC_
I Urbar Land  |  |   Regional  Bliss 1    {                      * |                                                        _NHA  E
| Developmentr |Studies r]Bis1rL|NP   R -t
Region 1  Bliss 2  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     NHCNPCCBak
|   Land Use    L   |   Region 2    L      |    Bliss 3     i                              |   NHMFC
Building               Region 3                 Bliss 4                                          HFC
Supervising               Field                                                  Agency re4ated to Urban 111 Project
MMC                   Offices                                                                                                                     -20843
VVorld Bank-204



PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
METROPOLITAN MANILA COMMISSION
ORGANIZATION CHART
GOVERNOR
Chairman of
Managementi                      Deputy Governor
Boardiati
| Executive Office
Development                                                                          Finance                  Operations
Planning Office                                                                        Office                    Office
Commissioner                                                                      Commissioner              Commissioner
|Engineering          | Refuse &   |                aagv ;            {     Hat                                apwr|              |Pbi  aeY¢              |Transport &
Reguleations             Services Operation                   Services COpeaetnnte                                                 Coordination               Tration
Center                 Center                   CetretrCetrCne                                                                                              Center
MCB for                  Dirtcts                 Districts                                                                                                                           Director
MMnduPoges                 stD    Asst. Dir                              AsDir.       Asst. Dir.                                      Director                Director            |   Asst. Dir   |
rI ns                                   rL                                   I ir
| Building   |            npc                                                                                mlyet}| f[| |Data Process,  
Reuain               L|sstac                                                                                                                                Conitrin  DevL1 
[3d- 7n                                        Ln<   nW in
|    Disticts   |  |  ~Districts   ||                                                                                                                     Dsrc
[  (4)  1  1  <4}  1                                                                                               1      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(4)
LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS
World Bank   20837



- 55 -
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NAT-IONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of
Directors
General                        :   Member of Managment
enagera                               Coordination Board
(Manager
Asst. Gen. Manager
_______ _  Executive                  Techmncal
t   Staff    L            Secretariat
Administratio              |     Forward Program                              Project Dev.
Administration      i                    and Evaluation                         and Implementation
00   Director   1                        Director                                 Director
Metro-Manila               Also
Personneldj                            Forward                            r    Projects                Reports
Training                               Programming                                  ZIP                    to
S & S                Technical
Secretariat
External                                Regional
_   Controllers                   _        Finance                                 Projects
_    and Accoiunts                 _         Budget                         _          SIR
_  Control                               PBN
_  Monitoring                            Special
_   Estate                     _          and                           _       Projects
Management                                Evaluation                                 Tondo
Dacat Dagatan etc
Industrial
Legal                                                                       Development and
Promotion
World Bank - 20838



PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNOLOGY RESOURCE CENTER
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of
Trustees
Executive Committee
Member of
Management                            Director General
Coordination
Board
l___ __ _  Technology                                                         ON
Advisory Group
|  Admin.    l                   l      Finance       l                   |   Management                              Policy Studies
Services                                                                          Staff                                    Staff
Technologv Utilization                       Technoogy                                Information
and Ventures                           Dissemination                             Systems and
Reports to          Development Div.                           Services Div.                           Services Div.
Technical
Secretariat
World Bank-20844



PHILIPPINES: THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZIP, YEARLY PROJECT AND PROGRAM CYCLE
Jan   Apr   Jul   Oct   Jan    Apr   Jul   Oct   Jan   Apr   Jul   Oct   Jan   Apr   Jul   Oct   Jan    Apr   Jul   Oct   Jan
1. Site definition, information outline                        -                 |   ntes
plan,outline costs by agency                                               cycle commences :
2. Mayor proposes sites for year's program                         ,
3. ZIP program office reviewv
4. Program & budget to MCB and NHA                                                              Ministry of Budget informs
5. NHA Board approval, recommends to MCB                                    '                   Management Board of final
6. MC3 review, submission to Ministry of Budget                                                 funds for year
7. Ministry of Budget/NEDA review process
8. Ministry of Budget releases funds to NHA
9. ZIP program office releases                                                                        -'
to District Teams, Line Agencies                                                                                                                                                                    I
10. Detailed Ground Survey                                               _n
11. Preparation of Physical Plans                                                                     |4
12. Establish Community Council, Livelihood
development, social programs                                                                                               
13. Choice of physical scheme by community v
and District Team
14. Detailed engineering, costs                                                                |j
15. Land acquisition (by NHA using previous                                                              I
year's budget)                                                                                     I
16. Bids sought
17. Bids evlauated by ZIP program office, IBRD
18. Contracts prepared
19. Contracts signed
20. Major infrastructure construction                                                                           -      -
21. Plot definition, reblocking                                                              _  -                          i       _
22. Minor infrastructure construction
23. Land titles prepared and issued
24. Collection from beneficiaries commences
World Bank -20901



PRT1IPPINBS.: TrH1RD IRRAN DMELBRMNT PROJEOT
ZIP PROGRAM AND FI14NC-ING PFIAN
F1 Millions (1979 Frices)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001 
Plot Completions                     2000    5500    9500   15000   16000   160oo   16000   16000 1   6000   16000 16000   16000              16000   16000   10000    6ooo
Cumulative                        2000    7500   17000   32000   48000   64000   80000   96000  122000  128000  144000  160000  176000  192000  208000  218000 224000
Program Capital Outlays /1
oand  C       O                   20.40  28.24   44.88   61.09   70.48   82.92   87.90   90.73   92.20   93.27   93.34   93.34   93.34   93.34   93.34   69.54   50.87   22.40   14.93    7.47   2.80
Infrastructure                    13.45   37.00   63.91  100.91  107.63  107.63  107.63  107.63  107.63  107.63  107.63  107.63  107.63  107.63  107.63   67.27   40.36
CO,aueity Facilities               1.05    2.86    4.94   7.80    8.32    8.32    8.32    8.32    8.32    8.32    8.32    8.32    8.32    8.32    8.32    5.20    3.12
Building Materials Loans /3        0.70    1.93    3.33    5.25    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    3.50    2.10
35.59   70.03  117.06  175.05  192.03  204.47  209.45  212.28   1379 5 211.2  21        214.f2 I9   214.89  21FB 9145.51  .45  22.40   14.93 77.   -
Administration                        0.81    2.22    3.83    6.o4    6.45    6.45    6.45    6.45    6.45    6.45    6.45    6.45    6.45    6.45    6.45    4.45    2.49    0.50    0.25    0.20   0.20   0.20
36.40   72.25 T08 9 1D1.09  198  210.92  51.-90 21D.73  220.20  221.27  221.34  221.34  21.34  221.34  221.34 T19-.   98 94   22.90   15.17    7.o7  3T00   0-20
Debt Servicilg Costs
Interest 3                                3.38    9.16   18.23   30.92   43.54   56.09   67.75   78.74   88.71   97.50  104.98  111.01  115.45  118.20  118.97  113.21  102.88   86.31   67.74  47.01  24.20
Co.mitment Fee 05 o.84   0.53
Principal1                       _-                                       35.18   44.55   53.85   63.20   72.40   81.35   89.95   98.10  105.70  112.65  118.75  125.33  200.81  225.10  251.18 276.58 293.30
Total Program Eapenditure            37.24   76.16  130.05  199.32  229.40  289.64  316.54  340.33  362.14  382.38  400.19  416.27  430.45  442.49  452.19  387.68  337.48  326.59  326.59  326.59 326.59 317.70
Financed by:
Beneficiary Charges 6                      4.68   16.02   34.03   63.33   88.48  117.61  139.73  164.85  189.97  215.09  240.22  265.34  290.46  315.58  326.00  331.88  326.59  326.59  326.59 326.59 326.59
Budgetary AppropriatIons           1.64    4.51    7.79   12.30   13.12   13.12   13.12   13.12   13.12   13.12   13.12   13.12   13.12   13.12   13.12    8.20    4.92
from Line Agencies /7
Transfers from Dagat..bagatan /                           23.80   37.90   28.301
Loans                             41.00   70.00  110.00  130.00  115.00  159.00  186.00  187.00  134.00  179.00  172.00  163.00  152.00  139.00  122.00   49.00       -
Debt Outstanding                  41.00  111.00  221.00  374.80  527.70  679.82  821.27  954.42 1075.22 1181.82 1272.47 1345.52 1399.42 1437.70 144Z.05 1372.30 1246.97 1o46.16  821.06  569.58 293.30    -
Cumulative Surplus                 5.40    8.43   12.19   13.00   12.95   12.21   12.40   11.92   11.75   11.46   11.48   11.55   11.56   11.65   1o.i6    5.68    5.00    5.00    5.00    5.00   5.00  13.89
1  Includes plwsical contingencies.
2 Assumes 40% of land co-ts paid by instatlents over 5 years following acquisition.
CRaprulents   82 average of P1000 for 30fa  nf lot'd
3 Calculated at 8.25e on total loan fin30cing. oIneludes interest during construction.
5 On IBRD loan only.
Assumes down-payment of 10% with balance amortized over 25 years at 22% interest.  Arrears calculated at 15% for 3 years, 12% for next 2 years anl 8% thereafter.
Includes building materials loans. Assures average dowr-pay-ent on lot purchase of 10% with balance paid over 15 years at 129 interest.
/7  Representing off-site infrastructure and mm-site community facilities.
7 N Let surplus from industrial/ccmmercial land after slobsidies to Dagat-Dagatan residential lots advanced as loans.
n Beneficiary charges would continue through year 2017.
Source: Missio estimates.



PHILIPPINES, THIRD URBA1 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GOVERNMENT SITES AND SEPVICES FINANCING PIAN
(P Millions)
-                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1997-
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996        2008
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Outlays /           18.85
Land                         85
Infrastructure                      17.91   32.20   14.01
Cormnmunity Facilities                       5.32    5.75
Building Materials Loans                    10.67   11.65
Sub-Total                 18.85   17-91   48.19   31.41
Administration               o.40    0.51    0.80    0.50
19.25   18.42   48.99   31.91
Debt Servicing47                                                                                                                         .2     38       33       .6     44
inert Servi                          1.73    3.47    6.o6    7.25    7.06    6.80    6.53    6.23    5.91   5.56    5.18        4.77    4.32    3.84    3.32    2.76    4.41
Cammit.ent fee  03 .-59    0.48    0.19
Principal /2                                 7.50   11.00    2.26    3.09    3.35    3.62    3.92    4.24   4,59    4.97        5.38    5.83    6.31    6.83    7.39   26.05
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            19.84   20.63   60.15   48.97    9.51   10.15   10.15   10.15   10.15   10.15  10.15   10.15    10.15   10.15   10.15   10.15   10.15   30.46
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Project Revenues
Beneficiary Charges /4                       4.60    7.91    6.48    7.24    7.03    7.03    7.31    7.03   7.03    7.03        7.03    7.03    7.03    7.03    7.03   74.23
Building Materials Loans L                            1.33    3.03    3.28    3.28    3.28    3,41    3.28   3.23    3.28       3.28    3.23    3.28    3.28    3.28    5.11
Sale of Inlustrial/                           5.95    6.69
Cocnercial Land
Budgetary Appropriations L6           1.97    9.41    5.75
1. 97   19.96   21.68    9.51   10.52   10.31   10.31   10.72  10.31   10.31   10.31         1    .3 11   1.34
Loans
IBRD                                144l.    36.95   25.36
Other                       21.00    6.52      -       -               _        _       _
TOTAL SOURCES                  21.00   22.97   58.91   47.06    9.51   10.52   10.31   10.31   10.72  10.31   10.31   10.31    10.31   10.31   10.31   10.31   10.31    79.34
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS             1.16    3.50    2.26    0.35    0.35    0.72    0.88    1,04    1.61   1.77    1.93    2.09        2.25    2.41    2.57    2.73    2.89    51.77
/1  Includes all contingencies.
72 Calculated at 8.25% orn total loan financing.
7 On IBRD loan only.
/4 Assimes down payment of 10-20% with balance amortized at 12% over 25 years.
7   Amortized at 12% over 15 years.
/ Representing off-site infrastructure and coesmunity facilities.
Source: Mission estimates.



PHILIPPINES: THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIVATE SITES AND SERVICES FINANCING PLAN
(P Million)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989  199o   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998   2009
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
Capital Outlays  t9
Land                            19.02
Infrastructure /2                      15.76  28.38  12.06
Community Facilities                   ___    5.00   5.38
Io   15.76  33.39  17.44
Debt Service
Interest during L                       2.23   4.11   2.74
construction
Repayment of                                   9.58  19.35
principal
Redemption of Equity                                     9.64
Investment
19.02   17.99  47.07  49.17
Financed by:
Project Revenues
Residential lot sales L4                      37.83  41.61
I/C land sales                                 1.28   1.41
Budgetary Appropriations_Z5                1.69   6.83   5.38
Loans                             15.75   13.18
Developers Equity                  5.25    4.39
21.00   19.26  45.94  48.40
Cumulative Surplus                 1.98    3.25   2.12   1.35
B. MORTGAGE LENDING BY FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY
Expenditures
Mortgage Advances
Residential lots /                            31.19  34.31
Building Materials Loans                      10.67  11.65
Debt Service /7                                          4.98 10.50  10.50  10.50  10.50  10.50  10.50  10.50  10.50 10.50  10.50  10.50  10.50  10.50  10.50   5.52
Administration                                    0.05   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   Q.10  1.00
41.-91 51.04  *I     10.60  i      10.60      o  10.60    7 10.60 oT-o10.60  10 60 10.60 7 10.60       O lb     -5       1.02 0.
Financed by:
Mortgage Repayments L                                    3.38   7.70   8.60   8.35   8.35   8.68   8.35   8.35   8.35   8.35   8.35   8.35   8.35   8.35   8.35   8.35  79.84
Building Loan Repayments 9                               1.33   3.03   3.38   3.28   3.28   3.41   3.28   3.28   3.28   3.28   3.28   3.28   3.28   3.28   3.28   1.70   0.13
Loans                                            42.oo  46.50
42.00  51.21  10.73  1i.98  fU. 3 1 1.63 15W9  11.63  11T.3  11.63  11.-63  11.63  1163  11.63  11.63  11.63  10.05  79.97
Cumulative Surplus                                O.O9   o.26   0.39   1.77   2.80   3.83   5.32   6.35   7.38   8.4i   9.44  10.47  11.50  12.53  13.56  14.59  19.02  97.99
/1   Includes all contingencies.
/5  Includes on-lot development.
/3   Calculated at 9-12% on government financing and at 18% on commercial credit.
/1 Transferred on completion to be mortgaged by financial intermediary.
/!   Represents full financing for off-site infrastructure and cumunity facilities.
/6 Net mortgage advances after allowing for dcvn-payments.
/7 Calculated at 8.25% for 15 years.
/ Calculated at 12% for 25 years.
/ Calculated at 12% for 15 years.
Source: Mission estinates.



- 61 -                        ANqNEX 4
Page 1
PLANNING CRITERIA AND DESIGN STANDARDS
ZIP
1.        NHA has developed a range of standards and guidelines which now
represent sufficiently flexible service levels and criteria to accommodate
most of the variations found from site to site.  The use of these guidelines
and their dissemination to the District Teams and local governments should
avoid extreme variations and high cost solutions which have been a difficulty
with some of the ZIP ieasibility studies.  The following critical indicators
and allowable variances on site planning and servicing standards were agreed
between the Government and the Bank at negotiations.
2.        Service levels.  In order to allow for variations between sites, yet
to minimize costs, ZI!P incorporates a 'basic' and a desired service level (see
Table 1). 'Basic' inidicates a minimum service level which will improve public
health and safety and improve access and be affordable by even the very
poorest, whereas the 'desired' level embraces a certain measure of convenience
for which an extra price must be paid. Existing service levels fEor each site
would be surveyed, and only those new elements introduced which are required
to bring facilities up to the 'basic' or 'desired' levels. The ability of
the residents to afford the scheme would be a further check and affordability
would be measured on a per plot basis, counting house renters and multiple
households. The lowest 15th percentile of incomes for the site would gener-
ally be taken as the affordable level on which initial design would be checked.
Affordability would be taken on a community basis but on-site costs charged on
a plot area basis to the plot owners. Designs costing above the average per
plot cost (see para 3.02) will be scrutinized closely in order to maintain
the average cost over the program. Where existing site densities are very
low, infill plots will be provided to bring gross residential densities up to
an economic level of a minimum of 70 plots per hectare. Special care will be
taken to control the amount of road improvements which can quickly raise the
cost. A maximum length of road of 135 meters per hectare will be observed and
a target of 70 meters per hectare. Agreement was obtained at negotiations
that those designs falling outside the maximum range shown in Table 1 or more
than 20% above the average per plot costs shown in para 3.02 will have prior
review by the Bank before bids are sought.
3.        Minimum Relocation.  The design objective is to fit infrastructure
and social facilities into the existing settlement configuration without
demolition of dwellings. Densities in project sites range from 500 to 2000
persons per hectare and in high density areas requirements for fEootpaths and
in places emergency vehicle access may require some relocation. When this
occurs a planning target of under 5% relocation and a maximum oE 10% has been
agreed with NHA, MHS and MMC. Relocation sites would be no further than 2 km
from the existing site and costs for relocation upgrading sites would be
averaged among all the beneficiaries' payments.



- 62 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Speed.  Heavy reblocking is very time consuming as well as being
costly to residents and disruptive to the community. Minimum movement of
structures has been agreed as an objective, with a maximum move -tt of
20% except in exceptional cases such as the fishermens' beach s' s where
constructing dwellings on the beach has obstructed vital working space and has
made the dwellings vulnerable to typhoons. The latest approach to upgrading
now being applied in Tondo will be used whereby construction of infrastructure
goes ahead before most plot surveying and titling. This approach has reduced
implementation time by two-thirds compared to the previous system which
encouraged heavy reblocking. Map 14665 illustrates a typical site layout.
MMINUTE
5.        Facility servicing levels for MMINUTE would be less intense than
for ZIP and would be guided by community needs and priorities in the area as
identified from the street by street survey undertaken by MPW and the local
barangays. Since this program will keep to existing vehicular rights-of-way,
planning issues are simpler. However, in order to minimize costs, care will
be taken to keep the frequency of road improvements to the service levels
shown in Table 1, and the 'basic' level of service. Remaining rights-of-
way would be turned into footpaths and linear parks. Construction standards
have been based on designs for the latest areas in Tondo but would be modified
by on-site needs. A typical servicing scheme is shown in Map 14666.
Sites and Services
6.        The following site planning criteria would apply both to the sites
developed by NHA and those developed privately. Site layouts will provide for
mixed income communities with opportunities for renting, good access to open
space, community facilities and public transport. Plots and facilities for
small industrial and commercial businesses would also be included. Levels of
service would be at the 'desired' level noted in Table 1, with plots within
125m of a road but with access by emergency vehicles within 70m. For efficient
layouts a land-use distribution within + 15% of the following will be applied:
Residential 60%, small scale commercial/industrial, 5%, recreational open
space 8%, roads and footpaths 18% and community facilities about 9%.
7.        The2average plot size in th2 governmeyt developed service sites
would be 70 m with a range from 55 m to 130 m . The following plot options
would be available and distributions will be substantially in accordance with
that set out below:
Plot Options
A  - 55 m  plot with water and sewer connection and sanitary
core plus alternate party walls and roof beams;
2
B  - 65 m  with water and sewer connection and sanitary
core, alternate party wall (shared between 4 units);



- 63 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 3
C  - 80 m   plot with water and sewer connection and
sanitary core; and
2
D  - 130 m  plot, with water and sewer connection.
Plot Distribution I/
Plot         Percent                  Number
Size             of                      of
m2            Plots                   Plots
Gov't.    Private      Gov't.    Private
55       21           0         700          0
65       53          44       1,750      1,250
80       21          24         690        690
130        5          32         160        900
3,300     2,840
Community Facilities
8.        Community facilities would be provided under ZIP and site and
services components to supplement existing facilities and bring facility
standards up to the following levels:
Secondary schools (new serviced sites only):  1 classroom per 1,000 pop.
Primary schools: 1 classroom per 500 population
Health Centers: 1 per 20,000 population
Barangay Community, Daycare and Nutrition Centers: I per 9,000 pop.
Open Markets: 1 per 20,000 population.
Wherever possible existing facilities will be expanded and upgraded in
preference to new buildings. Provision of facilities under the project for
new serviced sites will be close to the above standards. For slum upgrading,
after taking into account existing facilities, the following average provision
is estimated:
Primary schools:  1 classroom per 2,000 population
Health Centers:   1 per 30,000 population
Barangay Centers: 1 per 14,000 population
Open Markets:      1 per 45,000 population
1/   The same range of plot options will apply to the privately developed
sites and services except that the 55 m plot size will bie omitted.



- 64 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 4
9.        The Barangay Day-Care Nutrition (BDCN) Centers Pave four 48 T2
multi-use spaces and two open-air meeting spaces of 200 m . Also 96 m
are allowed for toilets, storage, 2 kitchens and 4 offices. The community
may encPose tbr barangay meeting space at a later date. A site area of
2,000 m will arcommodate these functions with room for expansion. The
building will be a simple concrete hollow block structure, with plain cement
floor slab, and corrugated galvanized iron sheet roof. Interior sliding
partitions between the multi-use spaces can be made of bamboo mat or a similar
lightweight material. The building cost of P253,000 includes an amount of
20% each for site development and P63,000 for basketball courts.  The 2
serviced sites for markets will comprise a drained paved area of 324 m with
4 standpipes.  The total cost per site is estimated at P46,000.  The new2
elempntary and secondary school classrooms based on 40 students per 48 m -
50 m classroom will be constructed on an improved Bangong Lipunan type
building. The cost of P850 per square meter includes the cost of all
support facilities for the school (circulation, toilets and administration).
The new health centers will be constructed of hollow concrete block with plain
cement walls and floors and a 2orrugated galvanized iron roof. A building
cost of P367,000 for the 300 m unit includes a 20% site development cost.
Also included in this cost is P65,000 for equipment. The project will
finance buildings and equipment.



- 63 -                                                                                ANNEX 4
Yab1e 1
PEILIPPINES: THIBD UEBAR DSEBRWENET PROECT
ZIP, SITES AND SERVICFS AND MMINUTE PROdEAS: PLANNING CRITERIA ANT DESIGN STANDARDS
Facility                                       Planning Criteria                                                         Design Standars_
Desirable Leve- fSrie                BssLvlofSrieSeg   tnad
A. I)WRASTRUCTURE
Access                                                                                                                        Access Length               Physical
Access Type            Meters ocr cross haste          Diciensions
Vehicular           All dwellings to be within         All dwellings to be within                                        Min   TarSet. Ma.
100r frm  a focus ascess road    75 e of road or -n alleyway               Collector road            15     20       35      loss row in 216/2 cross
within 300cc fsm a cdIliector      or improved footpath capable            (2 way)                                           section (1.5/7/1.5 if bus
road and within 70p of stre-      of carrying a fire truck.                                                                  routes)
ngthened footpath capable of                                                                                                 routes)
carrying es ergency service        same for local access road              Local Access road         50     6d      100      6o row in 1/4/1 cross
vehicles.                                                                  (l way)                                           section (0.5/5/0.5 if used
by jeepneys)
Pedestrian           All dwellings not on roads        AU  dwellings not on roads               Main footpaths                                   3o row (2a minioca)
to have direct access to          to be within 20 o of                     (incl e=orgaeny         15C    200       -
footpsths.                        adjaceot footpath.                       vehicles)
Ascess tootpaths                                 2= row (nKa) (In lmn)
movement of buildings to
be avoided
Transporta.tIon      All dweUings to be within         S a D e                                  N / A                                 A
500 r of bus ro-ts.  All
dwellings to be within
250 c of jeepney route.
Water Suppy            All dwellings to have             All dwellings to be within               Per capita, supply for
individual house                  50 I from public standpipes             individual connection =            105 i/cap/day
connectios.                      (multi-family (5 to 10)                 Per capita sUppuiY for
ohared taps preferrsble to              multi-family type or
public types).                          public type hydrants  =            o° 1/sap/day
Bomber of hydrants
(multi-family type)   =          1/5 to 10 families
Numober of nydrants
(public type)          '         1/to to 50 families
nratnage
Off-site             All site draos'   to be           S a a e                                  Design snor  fo  ado
linked to aetrowide                                                       (link) drain  o5 years
network.
On-site              All roads and footpaths           S a a e                                  Design stom for
to have surface or sub-                                                   draigage network                  1 to 2 Ye
surface drainage for
draining adjacent
dwellings.
Sanitation
Btomn Waste          Individual toilets (poar-         Pablic type toilets (pour-              Wate flier (in-
Disposal           flush, water-seal types)          flush, flier-seal types) sciding a                sut age)
with discharge to shared          within 50 m waflking distance           flaw fr- dwefll
sewer line ur to .o.n/lo          from dwellings; (multi-fasily           iag  with indi-
on-site disposal device,          (5 to 10) shared toilet blocks          vidual cosmos
preferrable to public types),           lions                             80 1/cap/day
Waste fiter flow
from milti-fasily
or public type
toilet blocks                     20S 1/Sap/day
Toilet Standard
(Multitfamily type)   =           1 seat/5 to 10 families
Toilet Standard
(public type)                      1 seat/20 to 30 famsilies
uullgage discharged (with                              SuIlage discharged (with                 Sallage flow                      45 1/cap/day
Disposal           sewage) to aewer lines or         overflows from toilet blocks)
to on-lotonm-site disposal        to os-site drains.
device.
ilectricity           Street lighting                    no lighting
Electric connection on demand    same
by consumer.
B.   C0cINTY PACTIIES              see parm 3.05                     see para 3.09
L Basic level of service is applicable to B4I1ITNE Program; both 'Basic' and 'Desirable' level of service are applicable to ZIP Program, the choice
depending on affordability criteria and existing site conditions; 'Desiratle' level of service is applicable to sites and services.
/2 Aetual nnumber ot coamunity factlities provided will depend on site availability considerations.



PHrILIPPINES: THIRD URDAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESIDUAL DISPOSITION OF BANB LOAN
(uS$ Million)
MMC                 MPN                 NHA                     MdS                        TRC                 TEAM           MWSS
Budgetary       Budgetary               Budgetary               Budgetary                  3udgetary        Budgetary
Component                                         TOTAL       Loan   Appropriation   Appropriation   Loan   Appropriation   Loan   Appropriation   Equity   Aproprlation   Appropriation             Loan
ZIP 5                                              20.61
Infrastructure recoverable from                16.87      16.87
beneficiaries
Community Facilities                            1.37                   1.37
Off-Site Infrastructure                         0.73                   0.73
Building Materials Lsana                        o.67       o.67
Consultants Advisory Services                   0.97                                                           0.97
MMINUTE 2                                          18.38
Water                                            2.18                                                                                                                                             2.18
Sanitation                                      2.73       2.73
Combined Sewerage                               3.71                                                                                                                                              3.71
Minor Street Improvements                        5.36      5.36
Major Drainage & Flood Protection               0.81                                   0.81
Major Street Improvements                       o.40                                   o.40
Topographical Surveys                            0.33                                  0.33
Maintenance Equipment                            1.98      1.98
Consultants Services                            g.88                                   o.88
SITES AND SERVICES                                 15.44
Goverom.ent
Infrastructure recoverable from                 6.98                                                6.98
beneficiaries
Community FPeiliti-s                             1119                                                          1.19
Off-Site Infrastructure                         O.47                                                           0.47
Building Materials Loans                        1.81                                                1.81
Consultants Services                            0.20                                                           0.20
Privately Developed                                   80
Community Facilities                            o.84                                                                                    0.84
Off-Site Infrastructare                         0.29                                                                            /j      0.29
Building Materials Loans                        1.81-
Construction Loan                                i.64                                                                       i.64
Consultants Services                            0.21                                                                                    0.21
SOLID WASTES MANAGEMENT                             3.25
Pilot and Extension Programs                    0.81       0.81
Vehicles and Equipment                          2.19       2.19
Design and Supervision                          0.25       0.25
LIVELIHOOD                                         6.97
Mini-Industrial Park                             i.62                                                                                                1.62
Production Sub-Contracting                      2.08                                                                                                 2.08
Community Banking & Micro Enterprises           o.45                                                                                                 0.45
Studies and Training                            2.44                                                                                                 2.44
Consultants Services                            0.38                                                                                                             0.38
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAININS                   7.35
MPW Construction Study on PREMIUM                1.09                                  1.09
MMC Finance and Management                       1.49                  1. 19
TER4 Traffic Management                         0.22                                                                                      .50.22
NEDA Urban IV Preparation                       4.55
72.00     30.86        3.59            3.51         8.79       2.83         3.45        5.89         6.59         0.38               0.22         5.89
/1 Works to be executed by N5ir.
/F Works to be executed by District Teams.
j3  To be on-lent through a fiss-cial intenrediary.
Source:  Mission estimates.



- 67 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Reports and Studies on the Sector
1.   Metro-Manila Capital Improvement Folio.  MPW.  13 September 1979.
2.   Development of a Capital Improvement Folio for Metro-Manila.
R. Gsottschneider and Urban Projects Staff. September 1979.
3.   Metro-Manila Development Plan.  HSC.  7 July 1978.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   ZIP BriefLng Material.  NRA.  July 1979.
2.   NHA Parti,zipation in Urban III.  NHA.  July 1979.
3.   Zonal Improvement Program.  Llewellyn-Davies Kinhill Pty. Ltd.
June 1978.
4.   Background documentation for the ZIP and sites and services program
for Urban III project. NHA February 1980.
5.   Report for World Bank Appraisal.  MMINUTE Program.  MPW.  June 1979.
5 vols.
6.   MMINUTE Program.  A. Williams of Gilmore Hankey Kirke Partnership.
January 1979. 2 vols.
7.   MMINUTE:  Status report for Urban III Negotiations (6 Vols)
February 1980.
C.   Selected Working Papers
1.   New Sites and Services.  Site Selection.  J. Racki.  5 February
1979.
2.   Manila.  ZIP Areas.  Comparative Land Utilization Study.  R. Racki.
5 February 1979.



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.   ZIP Design and Construction Standards and Costs.  G. Walker.
5 February 1979.
4.   Economic Analysis of Components.  Urban Projects Staff.  September
1979.
5.   Program Size and Implementation Capacity Related to Urban III and
Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Projects. Draft. Urban Projects
Staff. 25 September 1979.
6.   Criteria for Evaluation of Private Developers' Proposals for Sites
and Services. Urban Projects Staff. February 1980.
7.   Project Design and Supervision and Technical Assistance Details.
Urban Projects Staff. February 1980.
8.   Summary of Project Staffing Requirements.  Urban Projects Staff.
September 1979.
9.   Eligibility and Appraisal Criteria for Livelihood Projects.
N. Boyle. February 1980.
10.   Metro Manila and ZIP Sites Income Distributions.  Chart 20839.
Urban Projects Staff. September 1979.
11.   Institutional Responsibilities for Executing and Accounting for
Funds. Urban Projects Staff. September 1979.
12.   Project Phasing.  Urban Projects Staff.  October 1979.
13.   Monitoring and Evaluation.  Philippines Urban III.  Development
Economics Department Staff. October 1979.



BR[ 14586
r    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~a
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
UJ~
z~~~ z~






:r4-   ,,N                                                                                      - b
t    t1' 
LA  AS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F-2
1~~~                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    N 
PHILIPPINES-MANILA AREA   f    /      A    /   a   X    f              - i   ::: . g   ffi sr;vrs.: : M          b-A /-
Tkird Urbo,, Development Project                       ,              s                      .t        sr=   p                          1
POPULATION  DENSITY                                                   -           _       =           7K eo Elobndrv        If     '
Imu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
. . . Ruilways    <                 J     f               }  :r J   =   :  :   & S~~~~~~Za ono Frndo    to
zr         h- b50pd bv                       .                                      ..'=,    
X i g.' 750 999   ~   ~       ~      ~      \'        ~ ~          1 RAPNACO     K'ET=SS 0          2    0    0 
PHLIPIE-MAIL   APEAJ-,
i     500U -749 Development  Project  i,=  
P U T      DENSIT4Y99 '
-.. -Met,o-Mo/ 9 o j o
.......-M..oon,pel bo<Ho,,e,~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~
O,eoocs bondo,,oo  N ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~






,  :, ,   , X _          <                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District  2  
I.;:  A ,---R          A-                 .  ,-              N-                            '
C     IAN
=:t 0    - 0 .  0  '  f    0                ,                                                1:s~
909971        /CLAPI KIA3
f f 0 --- t^X <S 0 r_~U,=;- -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
M *% m * V \ t N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S Ive    Ar    Airyogn
V~~~~~~~~~~~~
PHILI PPINES MANILA AREA
Third Urban Development Pro1ect  I,
INCOME LEVE
A4,2,88 '"M' . 6..,d.,y
-;n ... v Mi, .iob* v-.
-    Mc-oI6, .rv 
v.000-md.-e
120000- 17,999
6,001-899J
- 6,010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
0 2,880~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J-






R ......
f                                                   .1|   
/~~                                                               /s)/o       S
"t~~~~~~it
| v \  \n,"            , ~~Div  tAGI 2           t
-~   ~       ~ ~           X        /IR ErNXC(:\                                        r
-2,, -\   -                           5       /{S         lLES 2         T         2KAT 
t t~~~~~~KN
-PH ILIPPINES - MANAILA AREA       ,                           A UP
Third Urban Development Project   <                                                                                               Aporr
PROJECT  LOCATIONS I
.er-M n budr 9...XW... I 6 , ..... I.
___ Drs,rict beondarles             \                  &   ( X    ! MUNT rLU                            4
Rz-Res, s-.-                                                         t+                          
R~~~~~ I-, ~ ~    ~        ~       ~         
R-d, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~
_  P,--ou pSo-ec -reo (F,,,, & q,c,,d Urb:n P,.,.c S)  \   <        Ilfr I 
r   WAMINUTE le                                        .                               \                                SpJoe        P/
\   '   ,  1;TX      '.             >AN~~~'OAILAfzi    . 
-/....t (x>Ivc
+       _    '            r 5            225       E






IBRD 14665
PHILIPPINES                        OCORR 1979
Third Urban Development Project
TYPICAL ZIP UPGRADING
HUMO ESTATE
_ --         __Phase I boundary (2.7 hocrares)
- Plot boundaries
-                                                                                              ______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 300 meter cycle!/ footpaths
4    t T -- ~S  ~w1w_r4+ L                                                                                                                                                       . ~  -  r  f  2 00 meter footpoths
fL~~~~~~-- F ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ -V  L ~~~~~~~~~1.00 meter access paths
I   I  I   1 I    r - I            j - - - -                             -                     - j       y   ,      ff    XI                                           Retaoined structures (137)
f  1  l  0   ] l  } P -    , [ _                                                        i  I       f   .:: .f                                I ////// i Slightly mooed stractSres (10)
. _ .  _ I   i   t  [  _  _ J   _                          ,           ;        g_|| Relocated struct 7res (i7)
Open spaces
_*fftiT     E. isting roads
_ <_ _ 1_ - j       I                                                                              2                                                                               ! 4 ;: f<  '  3 Eoistmog community buildings
Phase Tr, proposed plots
ELE.ENTARY                                Phase IT, esistiog structures
-    SCHOOL
~~__                                             -          -F      4      ..i  - ..  __-  L    ~--,-.. ., _ . _j*-
MEOfES 0      to    20       30     40      50
FCET     5-    0          oo       is
I                            : Muttl.tsrposE    I       I. -                                               .       , | .   . trost
-OMMUNITYHHALL
muAIAuts   STAeET
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- r z/  0                                                    ' 
X                                                       X               *                        X                             V500                                                                            L 0~~~~~~~~~~~~I* 
-                                                                                                                                            S ON
(0POou~          -AI
OOu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  -  -- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~  ~     
fl.S,~,  c~yn ~          F--
.  -                     u    M-    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                   Wur,u~~~~~~~~-  "z-
k~ 9                  r    -,.  -






IBRD 14666
OCTOBER 1979
P H I LI PPI N E S
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL MMINUTE UPGRADING AREA
ZONE 14, MANILA                                                              /   i
PROPOSED  EXISTING                                                                          / f
Streets to be improved                                                /         f J
Other streets                                                                 I
Railway                                                                               S
Stream                                               j,>                g
--        Water mains
A\              Water distribution points
*-~-   Sewers                                         2                                                   ,
Foul sewers                                 z /                                    **'-t '
o               Night soil reception tanks
*               Public toilets and bath houses                         A
S~~~~~~~(
DRA WING NOT TO SCAZE
/          -          A.7OA
/V~~~~~~
~~~   .7 
N,~~~~~~~e
<,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tl -p h. b-P,db h
/~~~~   *-5"s  :/*o 
/S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I B-AO, vf .-1d ...tE                           ,tfetisvly th,
A                                                                                f th. -d-~~t. 
to   / >  ,   X   s   ,/  St X                     t                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tbhh eIport tt whlch It,,s ttah,,d.
/   \,  8,q  1  \s   } /9                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T d--i-t -s -hown  ,,n th,,ma
Jdo t mapy, h   thbe p.re bf the
N   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~World Bank -s ,tff enoivlw- yfr
zN                                                                                         theX(/   A   7  nsn'enrieoce of they rnderseotf
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h repot tof hsh it is atahd
/                                                                  T denominationLstepOash te
/  r4 aL,  z*s                               AgC          f                         tC S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bondaseaoho an 'this map.°f
S'""+,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d sa imly on WSthepr oh
soisS  Proidt nt sear   o
,1    '-<"ti-_~l~ ' _                                55WA






Z.I.P. SITES. EXISTING CONDITIONS
D                                                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Central Slum.  Zone 14. Manila                 Beach Slum.  Navotas
Pocket Slum.  Pasay                            Perimeter Settlement.  Caloocani
Condit ions
inside
Slum
blocks
Water
pipes






MMINUTE SITES. EXISTING CONDITIONS
A.                                         _   ~       ~       ~~~~S  _ 
Unsanitary conditions around markets
Queuing
#<f4t*§ r  4s               ~~for
water
p9w   q  X  >,  9    w
Street drainage problems                               Over-used and Doorlv maintained
public toilets






UPGRADING IN PROGRESS
Community Discussions on Upgrading                         Moving houses through Community
Self-Help
Road Construction                                          First completed Z.I.P. Site-
Bulelak Minahan, Marikina
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sites and Services at  oondo -Houses upgraded by families  in Tondo
3 levels of plot consolidation



