Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY                       E  COpy
Report No. P-2734-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 5, 1980
This docment ia a resricted dtbutin and may be wed by reciplents only In the pefomnce of
thdr eokdla dtits.  t otunts may not oerwise be diwcosed witwo  Worid Bk authrzIsn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     - Peso (P)
1 Peso            - US$0.1351
US$1              = P 7.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         -  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)               =  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                =  35.3 cubic feet (eu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)          =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                      -  10,000 square meters (sq m or
2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                         =  1.057 quarts liquid or 0.26 US
gallon (gal) or 0.908 quart
dry (qt)
1 liter per capita per day (lpcd)  -  0.26 US gallon per capita (gcd)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BLISS    -  Bagon Lipunan Improvement of Sites and Services
CIF      -  Capital Improvement Folio
ESC      -  Environmental Sanitation Commission
MCB      - Management Coordination Board
MHS      - Ministry of Human Settlements
MMINUTE  - Metro-Manila Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering
Program
MMA      - Metro Manila Area
MMC      - Metro Manila Commission
MPH      - Ministry of Public Highways
MPW      - Ministry of Public Works
MWSS     - Metropolitan Water and Sewerage System
NEDA     - National Economic and Development Authority
NHA      - National Housing Authority
PROGRESS -  Program for Removing Sewage from the Streets
SIR      = Slum Improvement and Resettlement
TRC      -  Technology Resource Center
ZIP      -  Zonal Improvement Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:    National Housing Authority (NHA); Metro Manila Commission
(MMC); and private developers.
Amount:            $72 million equivalent.
Terms:             The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25%.
Relending Terms:  The Government would relend $3.3 million to MMC, $26.3 mil-
lion to NHA and $1.8 million to financial intermediaries
for building material loans on the same terms and conditions
as those of the Bank loan. The balance of the loan would be
provided to various government agencies as equity contribu-
tions and budgetary allocations. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The project would provide basic services and raise the
productivity of low income groups in Metro Manila. It is
designed to assist the Government in providing affordable
solutions to the problems of shelter, environmental sanita-
tion and employment generation. It includes: (a) provi-
sion of tenure, basic services and home improvement loans
to low income communities, benefitting about 160,000
persons; (b) provision of critical basic services benefit-
ting about 300,000 persons; (c) provision of about 6,140
serviced plots, about one-half of which would be developed
by NHA and the remaining by private developers; (d) employ-
ment promotion through the development of commercial sites
and small business loans, creating approximately 6,000 new
jobs; (e) provision of equipment and facilities for refuse
collection; and (f) technical assistance to strengthen
national agencies and local governments. The primary
risks are related to management and coordination of new
programs which will require rapid expansion to improve the
conditions of the urban poor. Measures proposed under the
project to strengthen the institutions would minimize the
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:I1
Local   Foreign   Total
------ $ million ------
Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP)  21.68          7.08   28.76
Metro Manila Infrastructure,
Utilities and Engineering
Program (MMINUTE)                 11.35       8.72   20.07
Sites and services                  11.40       4.70   16.10
Solid wastes management              1.76       1.72    3.48
Livelihood                           5.13       2.64    7.77
Technical assistance and
training                           1.88      4.70    6.58
Subtotal                      53.20      29.56   82.76
Contingencies: physical              3.74       2.99    6.73
price              21.02       9.49   30.51
Total                         77.96      42.04  120.00
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
------   million ------
Government appropriations           41.4               41.4
Beneficiary charges                  6.6         -       6.6
World Bank                          30.0       42.0    72.0
Total                         78.0       42.0   120.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
Fiscal Year      1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual                         3.5    7.5   17.8   24.1   19.1
Cumulative                     3.5   11.0   28.8   52.9   72.0
Rate of Return:   26%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2703a-PH, dated February 26, 1980
/1 Excludes customs duties and taxes, which are reimbursable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recomrnendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $72 million to
help finance a Third Urban Development Project. The loan would have a term
of 2CI years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
The Government would relend $3.3 million to MMC, $26.3 million to NHA and
$1.8 million to financial intermediaries for building material loans on the
same terms and conditions as those of the Bank loan.  The balance of the loan
would be provided to various government agencies as equity contributions and
budgetary allocations.  The Govermnent would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONC0MY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and iLts report, "The Philippines:  Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
HL-:77-2, dated October 27, 1977.  An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines:
Domestic and External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16,
1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects.  The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes.  While overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced.  The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services.  Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the Medium-Scale Irrigation Project, distributed
under R80-30, to be considered by the Executive Directors on March 13,
1980.



- 2 -
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in econo-
mic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially, public
sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio of
public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of of the country's terms of trade since
1975, stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of
international inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine
commodity exports. As a result, real national income has been growing more
slowly than real national product, and, with the higher level of investment,
the dependence of the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although
the terms of trade have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is
still about 5.5% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manu-
facturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates.
In due course, it should, however, be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and the efficiency of investment also needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of



irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1978. With the completion of
large irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice
self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled logging have led to soil
erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls for a major
reforestation effort, but this will require substantial upgrading of
Government administrative capabilities in this area, development of new hill
cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process of establishing their claim to the
land), but only about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin amorti-
zation payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating rice and
corn land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100
million in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.



- 4 -
Population Growth, Employment ana Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active fa-ily planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of th- labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually auring 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Owing to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by about
2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor
live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have not
improved substantially. Although accurate statistics are not available, the
share of family income received by the poorest 40% of families appears to
have increased somewhat; the income share of the top 20% has remained about
the same; and that of the middle-income families has declined correspondingly.
Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains high, at 40-45%, in both rural
and urban areas, and malnutrition is widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only



-3-
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1978. With the completion of
large irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice
self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled logging have led to soil
erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls for a major
reforestation effort, but this will require substantial upgrading of
Government administrative capabilities in this area, development of new hill
cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process of establishing their claim to the
land), but only about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin amorti-
zation payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating rice and
corn land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100
million in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.



- 4 -
Population Growth, Employment ana Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active fa._ily planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of tho labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually ouring 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.        For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Owing to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975.  Real per capita consumption has increased by about
2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor
live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have not
improved substantially. Although accurate statistics are not available, the
share of family income received by the poorest 40% of families appears to
have increased somewhat; the income share of the top 20% has remained about
the same; and that of the middle-income families has declined correspondingly.
Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains high, at 40-45%, in both rural
and urban areas, and malnutrition is widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only



- 5 -
12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1975 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
however, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
metnt, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned in 1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow
of financial savings into time and savings deposits relative to short-term
deposit substitutes and to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending
rates.  Further reforms are required to increase the availability of
long-term domestic currency resources. Special credit programs have been
adopted to expand lending to the credit-short agricultural sector and rural
areas and to serve the needs of medium- and small-scale industries.  A
deterioration of loan recovery rates was initially experienced by all
government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government has
taken a number of steps to improve collections; continued efforts in this
direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the
public finances.



- 6-
External Trade and Capital Flows
17.       In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
18.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative
importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines' non-oil imports. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.6 billion (5.7% of GNP) in 1979.
19.       In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 5.8% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 22% in 1979 to an
average level of 23% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance
of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the last meeting of the Consultative
Group for the Philippines, held in Washington, D. C. in December 1979.
22.       Satisfactory progress has been made in domestic resource mobiliza-
tion (paras. 15-18). However, because of the increase in the Philippines'
external financing requirements arising from the deterioration in the terms of
trade, and the fact that many of the projects planned for official assistance



- 7 -
have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource transfer can be
achieved only with some financing of local costs of projects, or through non-
project lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of January 31, 1980, the Philippines had received 63 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,970.9 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $93.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is currently about 13% and its share in total debt service is
about 6%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%, respectively, by
1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of January 31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of the
economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending. In
agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assis-
tance in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future
growth of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic
infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect
due to low levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's
main thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private
development finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting
the needs of small and medium industries.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas.  The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricultural
and rural development will account for the largest part of future lending
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (R80-30) to be
considered by the Executive Directors on March 13, 1980.



- 8 -
with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides for
several needed new initiatives, including support for strengthening the
national agricultural extension service through Loan 1626-PH (December 1978)
and an upcoming first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed
areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased assistance will
also be provided for integrated rural development projects which will support
the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income.
Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry with
considerable attention given to policy reform and to expanding the development
of labor-intensive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan
Manila area. A program loan to support major adjustments in industrial and
trade policies is currently being appraised. The share of lending for social
sector projects is expected to continue to increase primarily as a result of
greater emphasis on construction of urban water supply and sewerage systems
and further assistance for slum upgrading and low-cost sites and services
projects. The Bank Group will continue to provide support for improving the
quality of education and for expanding the Government's population program in
rural areas. While the Bank Group will continue to provide support for
transportation and power infrastructure needed to support the Philippine
development effort, the share of Bank lending for these sectors will decline
somewhat in the years ahead primarily because alternative sources of financing
are available to finance a large part of the power generation program.
27.       This is the sixth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year.  Loans for watershed management,
livestock/fisheries, rural roads and ports projects have been appraised and
are scheduled for Board presentation in the next several months.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Background
28.       The urban sector in the Philippines is characterized by a highly
dominant capital, Metro Manila, together with a large number of small and
medium size cities. About 33% of Filipinos live in urban areas; the urban
population is growing at about 3.5% compared to 2.8% per year for the nation
as a whole. By the turn of the century, the population of the Philippines is
expected to grow to 75 or 80 million, and up to two-thirds of the added
population may have to be absorbed in urban areas.
29.       Most of the country's towns have been unable to keep pace with
expanding demands for extension of basic infrastructure, partly because of
financial constraints at the local level and competing demands for scarce
Government resources.  As a result, municipal infrastructure is generally
inadequate to accommodate the basic needs of large segments of the urban
population. A particularly serious problem has been the growth of squatter
areas. Almost 25% of urban households in the Philippines and over 30%



- 9 -
in Metro Manila live in squatter settlements or slums without secure tenure
and basic services. Studies indicate that urban slum families suffer more
from malnutrition and are in poorer health than their low-income counter-
parts in rural areas.
30.       The 1977 urban poverty income estimated for the Philippines was
P 1,877 ($250) per person per year. Thirty-nine percent of families in
urban areas and 80-90% of families in slum areas of major cities have per
capita incomes below this level. In Metro Manila, 35% of the population, or
about 2.1 million, people live below the poverty level; they account for 30%
of the urban poor in the Philippines. Real income for unskilled urban workers
has declined by one-third from 1970 to 1978. Urban unemployment was about 8%
of the work force in 1976. In addition, the high proportion of household
heads employed part-time indicates substantial underemployment.
Urban Institutions
31.       A number of new institutions are beginning to affect significantly
the development of national urbanization policies. In July 1975, the
National Housing Authority (NHA) was established to consolidate the
Government's housing efforts, previously dispersed among six separate
national bodies.  The Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) was established in
July 1978 with responsibilities for national human settlements planning.
Coordination of urban planning in the Metro Manila area has been enhanced
recently with the establishment of the Metro Manila Commission (MMC). The
Commission sets overall planning priorities, establishes budget guidelines
and approves the budgets of the four cities and thirteen municipalities of
the MMC area.
Urban Issues
32.       Provision of Basic Services and Shelter.  The need to achieve a
more equal distribution of basic infrastructure in urban centers is
particularly urgent. For decades, a legal impasse over property rights in
squatter areas has prevented the expansion of both private investment and
public services. The National Housing Authority is addressing the problems of
slum upgrading and expansion of low-cost sites and services, supported by the
Bank's first two urban loans. The Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR)
program for regional cities, and the Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP) for Metro
Manila, which were initiated in 1977, provide for acquisition of squatter land
from absentee landowners and resale to residents; they also include the
legislative basis and support at the national level to provide services to the
urban poor. The Ministry of Human Settlements has introduced a
housing-cum-employment program called Bagon Lipunan Improvement of Sites and
Services (BLISS), which develops land for mixed-income communities in urban
and rural areas. The Government has recently committed substantial funds to
BLISS. In Metro Manila, the program involves high unit costs and considerable
subsidies and it is therefore doubtful whether this approach can provide
shelter for low-income groups on an extensive scale. The Bank is continuing



- 10 -
its discussions with the Government on the scope of this program in its
housing strategy.
33.       Employment and Productivity.  Placing a high priority on increasing
the employment and productivity of the poor, the Government has developed a
number of programs to support the growth of labor-intensive small and medium
industries, including credit programs implemented by the Development Bank of
the Philippines and the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund. While these
programs have been successful in assisting industries in the middle and
upper size range, efforts are necessary to reach the smallest class of
enterprises and the new measures proposed in this project represent a more
integrated and comprehensive effort to reach this sector.
34.       Urban Investment Planning and Resource Generation.  Although the
Government has recently placed emphasis on services for the urban poor,
related expenditures still represent only a small proportion of public
investment in Metro Manila, and there has been no system regularly to review
priorities and monitor the impact of investment programs. The Capital
Improvement Folio (CIF) review conducted by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
is the first effort to make a comprehensive analysis of investments in Metro
Manila and is proving useful for decision-making among the various Government
agencies concerned. This approach will shortly be extended to other cities in
the country. Local government finances also require strengthening in order to
minimize reliance on central government investments and subsidies. Recent
improvements in the collection of property taxes have begun to address this
problem.
35.       Regional Development and Urbanization Strategy.  In the past,
infrastructure and industrial needs of the intermediate and small cities have
been relatively neglected. In recent years, the Government has established
regional planning offices which are developing regional plans and investment
programs, and has taken steps to strengthen municipal governments. The Bank
has assisted in this process by serving as Executing Agency for the UNDP-
financed Regional Planning Project and providing assistance to regional
cities through the Bank-financed Second Urban Development Project. However,
the development of effective budgeting and investment programming for regional
bodies and local governments still remains a high priority need.
The Prolect City - Metro Manila Area (MMA)
36.       The Greater Manila area, with a population of about 6 million,
exhibits some of the worst housing conditions in the country. About 1.8
million persons presently live in slum and squatter areas. Water networks
do not extend into these areas and 40% of all families in the MMA do not
have any type of sanitary toilet facilities. Another 1.5 million persons live
in the so-called "grey" area neighborhoods which lack critical services but
where tenure is established and housing quality is adequate. With little
provision for new and affordable settlements, the trend over the past ten
years has been towards increasing densification of up to 2,000 persons/hectare



- 11 -
in slum and squatter areas; in some areas occupancy rates reach nine persons
per room. Provision of land tenure to the settlers would help to minimize
further subdivision.  The treatment and rights of renter families would,
however, become an important issue when the transfer of land title was
planned.
37.       The Capital Improvement Folio (CIF).  In the light of implementing
capacity and financial constraints, the Ministry of Public Works over the past
eighteen months has made efforts to develop a more rational and integrated
approach to public investment planning in the MMA. Investment packages have
been developed and accorded priority for inclusion in the MMA investment
program. As a result, the 1980 investment level for MMA has been reduced from
P 4-5 billion budgeted to P 2.7 billion. A regular review of the CIF
would henceforth be integrated with the MMC's planning and budgeting process.
The Government has agreed to consult with the Bank prior to granting its
annual approval of the proposed three-year rolling investment program for MMA
(Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       Community Upgrading and Development.  The Government has developed
four major programs to address the environmental needs of low income communi-
ties in the MMA. The Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP) is designed to provide,
with minimum relocation of slum residents, freehold ownership of land, water,
sanitation, roads and footpaths, drainage, health and education facilities and
building material loans. Initiated in 1977 by the NRA, it is a 15-year
program building up to an output of 15,000 upgraded plots per year after 1983
eventually to serve 2.2 million people. The second program, the Metro-Manila
Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering Program (MIINUTE), conceived by the
MPW in 1978, is designed to be complementary to ZIP. It is restricted to
infrastructure improvements and maintenance in existing rights of way. As
such, it provides fewer benefits than ZIP, but can be implemented more
rapidly. The Program for Removing Sewage from Streets (PROGRESS) is the third
upgrading program, designed by the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage System
(MWSS) as a low-cost alternative to new central sewerage systems.  It improves
the collection and disposal of foul and surface water wastes from streets and
is also simple and rapid to implement. The MMINUTE and PROGRESS programs are
very similar. Together they would provide critical improvements in drainage,
sanitation, water supply and access for about 4.8 million people over eight
years. In order to accommodate the growth of low- and moderate-income groups
in the MMA, the NHA initiated, in 1975, a long term program of low-cost new
serviced sites. If all four programs are pursued as planned, the 3.3 million
people living in both slums and poorly serviced areas today could be expected
to be provided with a reasonable minimum level of service by 1995.
Bank Lending for Urban Projects
39.       The Manila Urban Development Project (Loans 1272-T and 1282-PH)
assisted the Government in improving (a) the Tondo Foreshore slum area;
(b) the traffic and transport system; and (c) the metropolitan tax
administration.  A full report on the status of the project was submitted to



- 12 -
the Executive Directors under SecM77-871, dated December 13, 1977. After
initial difficulties, implementation has improved significantly and progress
is now satisfactory. In 1979, the upgraded area showed a remarkable
improvement. The earlier atmosphere of tension has disappeared. The vast
majority of families have invested considerable personal capital in
transforming their homes from shacks into 2- and 3-story dwellings, thereby
providing opportunities for subletting and more efficient use of the land.
The open serviced sites at Tondo and nearby Dagat-Dagatan have been occupied
and houses are being built rapidly. The achievement of the project to date
strongly validates the concepts of issuing land titles and provision of basic
services to stimulate community upgrading.  The Government has learned from
the experience and is now well prepared to undertake the more extensive Zonal
Improvement Program. The progress of the employment component included in the
project continues to be slow because of institutional difficulties. These
difficulties are being addressed by restructuring the responsibilities of the
implementing agencies for this component and by revising the project concept
to suit local conditions.
40.       The Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1647-PH), which became
effective on April 26, 1979, finances a large sites and services project at
Dagat-Dagatan, and slum upgrading in three regional cities. Bids have been
received for the main infrastructure works at Dagat-Dagatan, and design work
has been completed for the first contracts in the regional cities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Ob;ectives
41.       The proposed project would be the third Bank-financed urban develop-
ment project in the Philippines. It would address the problem of meeting
basic needs and raising the productivity of low income families in Metro
Manila. It is designed to assist the Government in providing affordable
solutions to the problems of shelter, environmental sanitation and employment
generation.
Project Background
42.       The Zonal Improvement Program and the Government-developed sites and
services program were prepared by NHA, the MMINUTE program by MPW, with the
assistance of consultants, the privately developed sites and services program
by MHS, the solid waste component by MMC/Environmental Sanitation Commission
(ESC) and the livelihood component by the Technology Resource Center (TRC).
Appraisal took place in June 1979 and negotiations were held in Washington in
February 1980. The Philippine delegation was led by Mr. Teodoro Encarnacion,
Assistant Minister of Public Works. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2703-PH),
dated February 26, 1980 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Annex III of this report provides supplementary project data.



- 13 -
Project Description /1
43.       Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP):  ($43.3 million).  The project
would provid- basic services including tenure, water supply, sanitation, roads
and footpaths, community facilities and building material loans to about
160,000 people on 13 sites over a three-year period. The upgrading would be
carried out in situ with minimum disturbance to existing dwellings. The cost
of the land and services to be provided is estimated at $188 per capita.
44.       Metro-Manila Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering Program
(MMINUTE): ($29.2 million). The project would finance a three year investment
program to upgrade basic services including drainage, sanitation, water supply
and street improvements to low-income communities in 15 priority areas. It is
est-Lmated that about 300,000 persons will benefit at a cost of $31 per capita.
45.       Sites and Services:  ($23.8 million).  The project would provide
about 6,140 serviced plots on 79 hectares at the city fringe, at a per capita
cost of $376. Each plot would be provided with individual water supply and
sewerage connections. The development would also include home improvement
loans, community facilities and serviced sites for small businesses and
commerce.
46.       Livelihood:  ($11.4 million).  A comprehensive effort would be made
to improve the incomes, productivity and employment opportunities for the
urban poor living in or close to ZIP and MMINUTE areas. Assistance would be
extended to help develop small businesses and productive cooperatives and
associations with marketing and management; credit for equipment, working
capital, land and services; and manpower training.
47.       Solid Waste Management:  ($5.0 million).  The project would provide
equipment for a program of drain cleaning and door-to-door collection of
household refuse from congested low-income areas. It would also support the
waste recycling program of the MMC, improve waste collection from markets and
provide assistance in management and organization. The three-year program
would reach 120,000 households.
48.       Technical Assistance:  ($7.3 million).  Technical assistance is
designed to strengthen the capability of national agencies and local govern-
ments. The proposed loan would finance about 551 man-months of foreign and
529 man-months of local technical assistance: (a) to MHC and local
governments to develop their organizational structure, administrative and
financial systems and to improve coordination in investment planning; (b) to
the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), MHS and MPW to (i)
improve investment programming and metropolitan management in the MMA, execute
feasibility studies for infrastructure in selected regional cities, and
initiate a national strategy for programming investments in sanitation, and
(ii) analyze the capabilities of the construction industry; and (c) to the
Ministry of Public Highways (MPH) to continue implementation of the Manila
/I Costs include physical and price contingencies.



- 14 -
traffic management program. In carrying out the technical assistance
component, the Government would employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
49.       The proposed project assists five priority programs in Metro Manila,
which are interrelated. A document covering the detailed implementation
procedures has been agreed with the Government (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).  A Management Coordination Board (MCB) would be responsible
for the overall coordination of the implementing agencies, and would review
the proposed project's financial and physical programs. MCB would be chaired
by the Deputy Governor of MMC and its members would be representatives of the
implementing agencies. A Technical Secretariat would assist the MCB in
supervising the management and accounting system at the operational level.
Consultants would be attached to the Technical Secretariat to develop
appropriate accounting and monitoring systems. The formal establishment of
MCB would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan (Sections 3.04(a) and
6.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       To guide and oversee the implementation of the ZIP component, a
Program Office has been established. The Director of the Program Office would
report to the head of NHA. Modeled on the recent consolidation of MMA's local
government functions into four districts, four District Offices have been
established, to be responsible for the implementation and supervision of ZIP
on specific sites.
51.       A comparable organizational structure applies to the IMINUTE com-
ponent, for which MPW is the lead agency. MMINUTE would be implemented in
conjunction with the similar PROGRESS (combined sewers) component of the
Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project to be implemented by MWSS. The joint
MMINUTE/PROGRESS Program Office would be headed by a Director reporting to
MPW for MMINUTE and to MWSS for PROGRESS through an Executive Committee com-
prising key officials of MMC, MiPW and MWSS. A Project Manager would be
appointed for MMINUTE, and another for PROGRESS in the Program Office. The
District Offices would report to the Program Office, and would have separate
teams to implement MMINUTE and PROGRESS.
52.       The lead agency for the livelihood component, the Technology
Resource Center (TRC), would be responsible for the overall planning and
sectoral analyses, subproject identification and appraisal, selection,
supervision and coordination of other executing agencies for this component.
Under the project, TRC would receive funds as equity and on-lend those funds
to other executing agencies on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan
plus TRC's costs. Six subprojects, appraised and approved by TRC, would form
the first group of projects to commence execution in 1980. It has been agreed
that all livelihood subprojects would be prepared and reviewed by TRC in
accordance with eligibility and appraisal criteria agreed with the Bank
(Section 3.10(b) of draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
53.       Under the sites and services component, half of the plots would be
developed by NHA and a Project Manager has already been appointed to head a
Project Office. NHA would retain responsibility for maintenance of project
facilities until the site is transferred to a municipal jurisdiction. The
Metropolitan Planning Office of MHS would be responsible for the balance of
the serviced plots to be provided by private developers. MHS would provide
guidelines to promote the program, evaluate and arrange contracts with
developers, supervise their operations and select beneficiaries. The
Government would provide off-site infrastructure, community facilities, a loan
for up to 35% of construction financing and guarantees for long-term mortgages
to the beneficiaries. These incentives, which have not been available to the
private sector before, are considered sufficient to attract the interest of
private developers. The developers would provide feasibility studies, prepare
the land, develop the sites and market the plots, all according to criteria
and conditions laid down by the Government, including location, sale price of
plots and distribution according to income percentiles of the target
beneficiaries. The Government has agreed that private development would be in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.11 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
54.       The Environmental Sanitation Center (ESC) of the MMC would operate
and supervise the solid wastes component. Overall planning and management of
the component would be the responsibility of the central ESC office. The four
district offices would manage the day-to-day operations of collection and
maintainance of equipment.
55.       Each of the principal executing agencies - NHA, MPW, MHS, MMC, ESC
and TRC - would require additional staff to implement their respective project
components. A Project Manager has been appointed for each of the ZIP,
MMINUTE, NHA sites and services and livelihood components and the key initial
staff have been recruited. The Government has agreed to appoint additional
staff in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank (Section 4.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement.) Key positions would carry supplementary remunera-
tion to attract and hold skilled staff. Consultant assistance would supple-
ment the staff in key technical areas.
56.       Sites for the ZIP and MYINUTE programs and new serviced sites have
been selected. The Government has agreed to prepare an overall 3-year rolling
investment program for the development of sites and review said program
annually with the Bank (Section 3.09(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
ZIP sites to be developed do not have accurate valuations to reflect their
present use. The Government would reassess the value of sites before starting
construction, on the basis of existing land use and service conditions.
Targets and variance standards developed by the implementing agencies for
site planning, servicing and community facilities would be such as agreed
with the Bank (Section 3.09(b) of the draft Loan Agreement.)



- 16 -
Project Cost and Financing
57.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $120.0 million, exclu-
ding customs duties and taxes. Cost estimates include provision for physical
contingencies of 10-15% depending on the level of engineering design. Price
contingencies for foreign exchange costs are based on a projected inflation
rate of 10.5% in 1980 declining to 7% over the project construction period.
Contingencies for local costs are based on a projected inflation rate of 16%
in 1980, declining to 7% over the project construction period. The cost of
technical assistance has been based on an average of $8,000 per man-month for
foreign assistance and $4,000 per man-month for local assistance.
58.       The proposed Bank loan of $72 million would finance 60% of total
costs, including 100% of the foreign exchange costs estimated at $42 million
and about $30 million of local costs. The loan would be made to the Govern-
ment who would bear the foreign exchange risk. Out of the proceeds of the
loan, the Government would provide to NHA to finance project expenditures
and building materials loans under ZIP and government sites and services
programs a loan of $26.3 million on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan, and $4.9 million as a budgetary allocation. The Government would pro-
vide to MMC a loan of $3.3 million on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan to finance project expenditures related to solid waste management,
and about $1.5 million as a budgetary allocation for technical assistance.
About $1.8 million would be onlent to financial intermediaries to finance
building materials loans to beneficiaries of the privately developed sites and
services. About $6.6 million would be provided as equity and $0.4 million as
a budgetary allocation to TRC to finance loans to and investments in small
businesses and credit unions. The balance would be provided as budgetary
appropriations to MPW ($18.4 million) for works under the MMINUTE program;
to MHS ($3.0 million) for the privately developed sites and services; and to
various agencies ($5.9 million) for technical assistance. The execution
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Government, NHA and MMC, and
of a Subsidiary Investment Agreement between the Government and TRC would be
conditions of effectiveness of the loan (Sections 6.01(a) and (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). On completion, ZIP sites would be transferred to
local governments who would collect plot charges from project beneficiaries
and, together with MMC, would assume responsibility for discharging debts
incurred by NHA under the ZIP program. MMC would also assume debt liability
for sanitation and minor street improvements and maintenance equipment
provided under the IMINUTE program. MWSS would assume debt servicing
responsibility for water supply and combined sewerage systems provided under
the MMINUTE program. Loans to small-scale entrepreneurs would carry an
interest rate of 14-16% except for seed capital to credit unions, to be
consistent with existing procedures.  Mortgages and building materials loans
under ZIP and sites and services programs would be advanced to beneficiaries
at 12% in accordance with existing practice.



- 17 -
Procurement
59.       Civil works contracts of more than $1.5 million each, estimated at a
total of $9.0 million, would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Because of the need to
undertake the work in small areas on a block-by-block basis with participation
of the residents of the project communities, civil works contracts of less
than $1.5 million each, for a total of about $30.6 million, would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. These would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with the
borrower's procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Equipment and
vehicles having a contract value of more than $10,000 under the MNINUTE and
solid wastes management components, estimated at about $6.5 million would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. For the purpose of
bid comparison, local manufacturers would receive a preference of 15%, or the
level of custom duties, whichever is lower. Items of less than $10,000 would
be tendered on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
60.       Disbursements for civil works would be made at the rate of 85% for
ZIP and government-developed sites and services and at 60% against the other
components upon submission of normal documentation. Disbursements for equip-
ment and materials would be at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures for
direct imports; 100% of local expenditures ex-factory if locally manufactured;
and 65% for other locally procured equipment and materials and 100% of the
expenditures for technical assistance and training. Disbursements would be
made against 60% of the small business loans and for building materials and
construction loans, certified by the Project Director of the relevant agency
against statements of expenditure. A maximum amount of $3.5 million is
recommended for retroactive financing for payments made after June 30, 1979,
for advance contracting for ongoing civil works in the ZIP and MMINUTE
programs and for consultants' advisory services and subloans.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
61.       Cost recovery for the ZIP and sites and services components would
follow the principles established tnder the Second Urban Loan, whereby the
cost of land, on-site infrastructure, on-lot development, and building
material loans would be recovered directly from beneficiaries. Land developed
for industrial and commercial use would be marketed at prevailing values.
Community health and education facilities and off-site infrastructure would
be charged to the budgets of responsible agencies. Costs of communal water
supply and environmental sanitation improvements provided in the MMINUTE
program would be recovered indirectly through the MWSS tariff structure in
accordance with existing procedures. Local street improvements would be
undertaken following agreement with affected property owners on revision of
assessed property values to recover capital costs involved. All costs of
capital and finance for the livelihood component would be recovered except



- 18 -
for direct technical assistance to TRC. The mini-industrial estates would
be leased or sold to entrepreneurs. Direct technical assistance provided to
individual entrepreneurs under the component would be capitalized into costs
recovered from them, except in the case of micro-enterprises where cost
recovery would be determined by affordability. Under the arrangements
outlined above, some 70% of the project capital investment costs would be
recovered by beneficiary charges and a further 8% through service tariffs,
leaving some 22% to be borne by government appropriations and fiscal revenues
generally. Arrangements were made whereby MMC would share with local govern-
ments the responsibility for repaying the national government for the ZIP,
MMINUTE and solid waste management programs.  The Government has agreed to
undertake a comprehensive nationwide review of the borrowing capacity of local
governments in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section
4.07 of draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Assurances were also obtained that the beneficiaries of ZIP and the
sites and services component would be offered a 25-year transferable lease
which would include an option to purchase the freehold interest within five
years (Sections 4.05 and 4.09 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
63.       Affordability to beneficiaries is a principal design criterion.
This would be measured on a per-plot basis including renters and multiple
households and, in the case of ZIP, would relate to the community as a whole.
In ZIP areas where family incomes range between P 300 and P 3,000 per
month with a median of about P 500 per month, beneficiary charges would be
designed to cover the land and servicing costs amortized at 12% over 25 years.
At an average of P 68 per month, these payments would be affordable to
families earning P 340 per month ($46) which is below the 10th percentile
of the Metro-Manila income curve. The sites and services component provides
for cross subsidization and a range of lot sizes and housing options to
attract a social mix and, as such, plots would be affordable down to the
20th percentile. The eligibility criteria would be that the applicant would
own no other residential property in the MMA, and have family income in the
range specified for lots of a given size. The Government has agreed
that prices of residential property and plot allocation methods would be
determined in consultation with the Bank, and public announcement of said
conditions and methodology would be made prior to the start of construction of
each such development (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
64.       The proposed project would support a first three-year phase of
long-term complementary metro-wide programs to alleviate the deficiencies in
urban services; regularize land tenure; and provide opportunities to increase
incomes of the poverty group and make affordable shelter available to meet the
needs of the growing low-income community. In addition, the project would
increase the institutional capacity to design and execute these priority
programs and to coordinate urban infrastructure planning.



- 19 -
65.       Using the anticipated increase in property value resulting from the
various investments as a proxy for the project benefits, the economic rate of
return is estimated to be about 42% for ZIP, 15% for MMINUTE and 26% for sites
and services. These rates of return are consistent with the results presently
experienced in Tondo. The average weighted economic rate of return for ZIP,
MMINUTE and sites and services components, which represent about 83% of total
project costs, is estimated to be about 26%. It increases to 29%, if labor
costs are shadow-priced at 84% of actual levels. The livelihood component
would create approximately 6,000 jobs and the average economic rate of return
of the subprojects already appraised is estimated to be about 48%. In
addition, the project would generate 11,000 construction jobs of which 75% are
expected to be for the poor.
66.       The project is designed to initiate metrowide programs to service
the basic needs and increase the incomes of the urban poor. Improvements
provided through ZIP are designed to be affordable by the target group and by
1983, some 160,000 persons would have benefitted directly from upgrading,
about 80% of whom would fall within the poverty group. The MMINUTE component
would provide basic services to a further 300,000 persons, of whom some 75%
fall below the poverty threshold. Over 80% of the new sites would be targeted
for and would be affordable by families below the poverty income level. Taken
together, these components would, during the project period, provide direct
benefits to about 500,000 persons (28% of the projected poverty group). The
livelihood component would augment the incomes of about 80% of the
participants who are below the poverty threshold, primarily through secondary
employment at a cost of $660 per job. The pilot program for solid waste -
management would concentrate largely on improved collection from low income
neighborhoods. Of the total cost of $120 million, some 74% (or $89 million)
is directed to benefit the poverty group.
Project Risks
67.       Because the project envisages rapid expansion of upgrading programs,
it necessarily entails risks related to management and coordination. The
operating procedures and administrative relationships for ZIP and MMINUTE are
not yet fully in operation. The local teams in each of the four districts are
new but organized around competent engineering staff appointed from the local
governments and national agencies. Additional staff would be hired as
implementation proceeds. The Government has made a significant effort to
establish institutional arrangements to implement these programs and, with
continuing commitment, it should be possible to expand them effectively to
reach larger numbers of the urban poor.
68.       Other risks involve participation of private developers for part of
the sites and services component which is a new initiative and as yet
unproven. Their response to this initiative could prove to be less than
anticipated. Particular attention to adequate incentives to developers,
careful formulation of the guidelines for participation and periodic
monitoring should minimize the risks.



- 20 -
69.       Due in part to the fragmentation of agencies and also to the
inherent complexity of the sector, assistance to small businesses in the
Philippines in the past has been less than successful. The proposed project
would endeavor to overcome this problem by using a dynamic agency to select
and manage appropriate implementing agencies for employment subprojects in
order to offer creative and comprehensive services to small businesses.
Sufficient funds and staff would also be allocated to study the details of
specific sectors and to prepare and appraise subprojects thoroughly.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness are: (a) the execution
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government, IIMC and NHA, and of a
Subsidiary Investment Agreement between the Government and TRC: and (b) the
establishment of a Management Coordination Board (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 5, 1980



-Z1-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RENRCZ GROUPS (ADJUSTED *ACES
LAND ARUA (TIOUSAND SO. IN.)                PILIPPIN S                    - 135T RUCENT ASTIDATE)       S
TOTAL           300.0                                                 SAM         SAME     NEMT HIGRR
AGRICMLTRAL      86.7                                MOST RECENT    GZOCAPIC    030011        03C0H
1fO  /b   1970 / ESTIIATZ /b        RZCI0  h   GROUP d   GROUP /
CNP PEA CAPITA (CUS)                140.0       230.0    510.0           528.9      467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PZE CAPITA
(KILOGRACS 0P COAL EQUIVALENT)    147.0       301.0    329.0           371.1      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEA  (MILLIONS)    27.4        36.9      4.5
URAN POPULATION (PER5CUT OF TOTAL) 30.1        31.8      34.0            27.4      24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     76.0
STATIONARY POPULATIOW (MILLIONS)                      128.0
TER STATIONARY POPULATION IS 8EAfED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DM.                      91.0       123.0    148.0           154.8       45.3        44.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0      472.0    513.0           566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUE (PERCENT)
0-14 TRS.                        44.7        45.5     46.0            41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 YR.                         52.3        53.6     51.0            54.9       51.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         2.9       3.0            3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.7         3.0       2.7            2.4        2.7         2.4
UR3AN                             4.0         3.8       3.5            4.3        4.3         4.5
CRUDE 3DIRT  RATE (PMI TEOUSAND)    45.0       43.0      35.0           30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEAUT RATE (PE THOUSAND)     15.0        11.0       9.0            8.3       11.7         9.2
GCOSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5L        3.3       2.4            2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       191.7    643.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED WOEN)   ..           2.0      22.0           34.1       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.1       101.0    111.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  83.0        86.0      87.0          104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)         44.0        45.0      50.0           57.4       54. 3       64.4
OF WHICH A.NIMAL AND PULSE     t9.0A       22.0      19.2            6.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    16.0        10.0       7.0            4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTg
LIFE EPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0         57.0     60.0            61.1       54.7        60.2
TNFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
ThOUSAND)                          98.0        8Q.0      65.0           46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..       39.0           21.9       34.4        60.8
URBAN                              ..         ..       51.0           46.2       57.9        75.7
aURAL                              ..         ..       33.0           12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EECEETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..       56.0           28.4       40.8        46.0
URBAN                              ..         ..       76.0           65.0       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..         ,.      44.0            14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICLIN             ..         ..   3150.0           3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      3840.0   4990.0          1107.4    L522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1180.0       850.0    880.0           613.3      726.5       453.4
'MRAN                              ..         ..        ..           203.6      272.7       253.i
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..          1110.3    1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..       ..            23.9       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
-OTAL                             5.8         5.9       ..             5.2        5.4         5.3
URBAN                              ..         6.2       ..              ..        5.1         5.2
RURAL                              ..         5.8       ..              ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         2.3       ..              ..         ..         1.9
URBAN                              ..         2. 1       ..             ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..         2.4       ..              ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS :O ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
JF DWELL.NGS)
TOTAL                            16.5        22.9h    31.0              *-       28.1        50.0
URBAN                               .        62.8/h     ..              ..       .5.1        71. 7
RURAL                                         5.sT    10.7                        9.9        17.3



"2 2 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABEU 3A
P'ILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHUT
PIIILIPPINES              REU NCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A       GjRAGES
P- IOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
SAME        SAME     NliXT  IGHER
MDST IECZNT     GHOGPHIC   INCQlt          INCOMEZ
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ISTIATE /b       REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED 1aROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0        114.0     105.0            97.9       82.7        102.5
MALU                 98.0       115.0      102.0            98.7       87.3       108.6
FEXALE               93.0       113.0      10..0            97.4       75.8        97.1
StCONDART:  TOTAL                 26.0         50.0      56.0            42.2       21.4         33.5
MALE                 28.0        59.0       65.0            46.7       33.0         38.4
FEHALE               25.0        42.0      47.0             40.9       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 O  SECONDART)  15.0         6.0        ..            12.5        9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        29.0       29.0            32.5       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                         27.0        33.0       31.0            25.8       23.4        22.9
ADULT LITEACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9         82.6      87.0            84.1       54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         8.0        8.9             6.1        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        22.0        39.0       44.0            84.4       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.4         10.0      17.0            22.4       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GZNfLAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 17.0         14.0      18.0            24.2       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL AITENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6           ..       7.6             3.6        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0      12400.0   16244.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.4        33.1       35.3            36.7       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0        55.0       50.9            54.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2        15.8       14.8            16.3       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.8        36.6       35.3            40.7       37.1        33.5
MALE                                52.1         48.6      47.1            49.9       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                              27.4         24.4      23.3            31.0       20.4         11.8
ECONQAIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.4       1.3             1.1         1.1         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8           ..        ..            14.9       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2        53.9       53.3            46.8       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2         3.7        5.5             6.2        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9         11.9      14.7            16.8       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIKATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    250.0             193.1      241.3       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    190.0             128.7      136.6       183.3
ESTiATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      132.0           136.8      179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..          ..       87.0            96.8      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
LRBAN                               ..          ..       39.0            32.0       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..       44.0            52.5       37.5        35.3
Sot available
NoE applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are populacion-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among Che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
'b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year becween 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/C   Lasc Asia s Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita, 1976);    e  Intermediate Middle Income
1f51-1135 per capita. 1976);   /f  i950-55;        Av. 1960-62;  'h  1967. households.
Most aecent Estimate of GNP oer capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-23-                                                   AN~~~~~MNEX I
DEMIMO-23-L_nICTR                                                                 Page  3 of  5
Notes:  Althoug  the data  -r  dve  fro   sueseaalyJudged the meet   thoritatie- sad reliable, It shou1d also he nted that they na  not be inters-
tioae. lay ooee-sl.e b-nz  of the lad of standardised deiitio-  and conce.pts used by different coutries In oieoting tbe dat.. The data ore                      ntels
usfu  to deoibe orders of magnitude, indicate treads, end oharaterie certain ea3o  differece  betnee   cuatrie..
The ad.,eted -.rop  aveage .for eac  indicator or  ppuatioa-eeigbted geometric  -ea, excluding the entrem   rlue  of the indicator end the scat poplated
outry  .5 eah grop.  lic  to lak ofdata  grop *reof aid indiotinr  fee Capital Surplus Oil  pErtere and of idio-tore of Aooe.. so Water  nd E-reta
Pipsl,Ouiog, L..oee Distributio  andPovety for Otis  oontry groups ar  popuitioa-eignted geomtrio e-n  cithoat exclusion of the .utreac veocee and
the meet popso'lod -outry.  Shn     Hh ovrg   f coutries  -men  the indicatne   eenso  at.l.bityj of da,ta end isant uni_for, -omtto mast be exerised
on reltingaeae   f oetdiont   to anthr.                     -,ec  verge  aremotlyusflascroiaoaofeptd'vaeshnoprgtevlesfoe
indicator oh a time amen  the co-try and reeea        -grus.
ALM  APOA )thoused sq.bm.                                                                 Access in  Exsoreta Dissm. pecn  of pouain)-ttl.ubnen   ua 
T.tul    toa    -ufoe ure  o-pras-o  lend area  nd mind natra.Yndr of people (voa,oin  en   ua)srcdb                                                    .oetab dinposal an
Agrioo.ual -  RM.t reet estimate of agiutua   rea osd teagorily                           perceatags of their respective popelaticas. Onorsta dispa.aI. sa  inclde
orpeeanetip, for crops, pasaure, mache  end nitche  grdena or to                      the  -of1etion end diepoeai, nith or aithcut treatment, of home  e-rte
lefadlo.                                                                              and  eseetrby ester-bone  system   or the use of pit pro-tee and  ,ilsr
1NP POP CAPITA (US$) - IMP Per capita eetimtos at  -oret earitpece                         ooatoprPosian-ositosdvedboubrfpatcngpscan
cat'lculatd OP osm   --erion aetbd an World Pen  Atlas (1976-78 bsn;qaifiedfo      eha.oiola   nvriyloi
1960, 175, and 1978 data.                                                               RPulnahonper StredingPoao -c        osaiedvie   ycme   f  rciigml
ciNRGPY C IONSUMPTON PER COPITA - Annua ....anpti-o of   - -mroua  e-rgy                    end female1 graduate nures  praticalure, and anoutantnus.
(-clan  linie  paoia, ontuaL.- Wan andsoro-, enoler and go-                             Ponlstio  pe Iconl _o -_total.  -ro.ad  -oa.    RPsltia(tota.1  irto,
thrai etarsicy) in kilogram   of coal equivalent per  apito; 19C,                    and rura) dvddb   hi  epstv   uhro2opiaHoeaaibei
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                      puhlih  and private go-rl and speo-ili-d hostpital and retahclttitnlocetr -t-
HoPitala ar  estblishmets permanetly staffed by at le-r  on  phyocian.
PcPdLATICe AHil VITAL ifiTIdT:CC                                                           igtablisoheta provudig princpal-ly  -outodial car  ar   -   -Inlded. Rural
Total 7oonieMdSa   oios   Au of July 1; i960, 1970, end                                   hosPitals, h-cor, Include health ano medical ceter  cot permanetly staffed
1971 data,                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~by a phyaioin  (hut Op a medcal assistant, cus,  idife, etc., ahich offer
Urbno  ophatonPer-et ofoctal) - Patio of  hen to total popua.tioe;                        10ptIlat aoo-dation  end provide a   he              -age of mdIca  fai.ci
1Wfeec  ofiooo   ofrine arena say affect c-eparailitp  of data                An.iss.o. per Hospital Pod - Total cober of a -.sioo  tc or diocharge  fro
ssnog ocloccr.es, o960. ~~~1970), end 1975 Sata.                                  hoopotaic divided Op _ie  -uor of irds.
lOplco   syear 700 - Corret ppulatico projectioco o-  cased 00               uSf0ING
1975  oa  popolation by age and 000 and  hei  sortality and f-rtiiity               hverg  dies of fRousohoid (ser-on  p5r hO.u.ehhld) - to,tal,  rhan  cod  rurl -
rao.  r~eto  paramtero for  -otaity rates  -opri-  of three                             ho...eoold vo..sieto of a group ofh.ovdul   b    -car  livic   quater  cod
1-ela  -oouml   Life e-pe-tay at horth  --ceaiog cthb cutry's                         their naa mean.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be  .oclond 10 tie
per vapoto   onivl  andffeaale life eopectan    otoshi-iig at                         household for e-tiotical pcsp-e..
y7.t penro.  The paromoslern for fertility rate alto have three le-el        Av!erge oaer of pros per ro-total  manb, and rurl - Averge cuber
toonmoog decline 00~fertility   . ooodog to  btnm   level end past              of Peo  pe  roo   noil, -hen, end  -or-l -ocp-doaetoald                      lgo
fecl-y olendo  performanc. Each  -oatry ia cisc asaigned ccc of these                 reepe-ti-ely.  Weliog   eoiode ou-pe-ntc utrutres and onoovpcecad                  o
dos vocbination   of ecrtality and fertil.ity treds for proJectice                 Acces  to Eiectriolty 'percent of doeui-go) - total, urban, and rural -  Zo
,p-vvo0.                                                                              ocoiorsul  oeitogi otvirotr-oy In ,li:-g q-ater. so p-rcotago of
otacot-ry c-1ulaio- - Lo o stationar.y popo.iat-o  there Io to g-thi                    total, wen, d rural doei           .   _.dogr otoely.
sctbeoilrth vahe oe col to tie death rate, and eno the age
itrut ir reeooocetac.Ti  is oricdoly after fertility ratee                  EDUCATION
eloeohrep  =eot lee   fuotoo rpr-duotioc rate, noon                        Ad,u-t- Enrollmet -atio
0500 groeratioc of oomeo vepisoce otneif eoaoty.The stati-ony pop.-     Primar o-hoi- cti unocd fae--1 ros  total, ea. and fencel e-1o-
Ini .ice on  ostioted'00 tiehasbho of tiet projocted oharcteris.ti-s                ce.t of ei ages at the pro-sy levln  peretages of re.npoti-e prInay
of thc  1popotinto  injthe yecr 2000. cod the rate  f dlot .n of fertility              occlepop.i.Lt-ct; ocr11yi ucludee vhildree aged c-il fear  hut
_ace to replaee _tlel.                                                                  adjuoted for diftovect o-gthe of prienoy edoatioc; I'or  -utri-s  ith
fea stationary  cpooicoo  ciched - The pear  h.e. stationa.ry pop.iat-o                   -cove-1icu-tioceerflnet any once.nd 100 perteot c-v-sm  popol
sloe Oar too  re- io ,-h                                                                     010 or shove the offitiel  chool age.
Me  o   m      iIO-pc-  pop.iit-o  per uquar  ikionter (ICC hectre) of            concinrqie   tlahfu er   faPprv,   vr_sry.oroc
sotal area                                                       ~~~~~~~provides gnera  'r-tiotL, Ir   thacie  t-asing ooruto          - o  pop,Lu
Perc    n   grclua  land - Cospoted an toov  for  Wgeoltural land                         u__aly of12to 17 years of age;vresoecoorsoaeotrly
only.                                                                                   -cloddk.
ipiatoco bye Iruovure "'or--t) I- Childre  P0-lu py-r, sVoog-e oaso-1erllso  .pretlfoe-oda) - locntIo `..btito~toa I                                              sclot
1)00., yes.r&,000 retlcec co  pears and over  no p-etages of did-yea               riic        tusra,o  otter' pror io hi  operte  -odep-oe-tly ora
Popoltion; 1*,1970. end 1977 data.                                                        oepart-to of  -e-dnryintooo.
PoultonGrwh ate ~percent) - total - Annual-roth ratme of total did-                 Poi-ece  ato-oia                  odscnay-Ttal etudento er-olcdi
pea  poocI... fur 1953-AC. 1950-7, ad 1,910-77.                                           prienr  and notodar  lv l,idiote  Ops,ncrY          o  teachers  suih
Pco.cto  C r-th Rote  P-eoe-) - ota   - An..anl 9           rutes of ore nbdglees
tuoolosfr 1950-cC  1)0")   n  1970-75.                                           Adult' Iseay rt    pecn ,-ltorateodulto  'bie ccrat                 ndnocn
rude Birth Oats  _pr    o dn) -RssaIve bsrto. Per tboused of sod-                           aPercentage of total tolt pspssktivo aged 15 year  and ove.,
rudo h)eath OtoprttsadR   "Aneal dOsa.Prtho pe  hoadofoto-pear                       cC55IsuPf P10
poPulaton  192   97,ad 1977 data.                                                     Passenge Tars C ' Per th-.nad co-siat-o(- Pa...oger car  coaprose  -t-r   r
Ir-- iVeprodooti-t alte-o       gecuhe  of da0Jhte-occ    'ill bear                       seting  less thn -oght o-reon; -c lodesa-        lace  oeread -sltary
.   ...cr    ,P_ coePcprovtc   peidof ohteoPer-eoce   pr-o-t on-                      vohiolo..
,prlf1  fet ilo,ty rates; usoaly fieyeravrges  tdiog sn 19,0,                         Radii Rcescer. 0ev thosoand population) - ill types of-rnseefrrdio
A07, and 1975.                                                                           rcotto to general .pubidi  per 1housun  :f pop.otoin; escludes ocioe-ue
Famiy Pi-isio  -A-copt-r, ocA-I Ith--sado}-Wso onbro                                       eevrs.          nrc  and _o  oro nhl  cvgio t--lo  of ra-o  -1.ot   Itz
voposf hirth-o-tr-i deices- -otoe  -spoeof            ina  fsml                   effeot; dat  for recent year  coy sot 00 o-parole si-c s.'.t so
vionecog Orogran.                                                 aho~~~~~~bliohld ls--ciog.
OsoL    L nsstg-1 .oers  p-rvv-tH enref       o --     erceetage of smrrod          TV Ov "iEr"  p-r thousano oopsiati-'t  I-if ver-oer   or brctds.-ot 1- glenert
soco   hi ld-b-ars    age ' l5-ol  peoro  oh. b   birth-c-troI devices             poili  per tocuand populaion   voldeul           %ecd ftrt.cens.ocorr
oo al  -arrd    ise   tosm  age grop.                                                 ,n cya aoe   eit-ahso  i .-tsa  '0 rffect,
insepperfiosiatonpvc tcoosand poanIi-ao) - Ehos-  hth  t-erge  loltn
F"DTANDVNUTRlocNvato   edct  10-llII      oe   fprcpt                                        f "daily IgcrIsteetoepse  ,dfine.-      persdi-n  poilioti-e
Ill C.Pt. ~I%Q71=13C) :rd..   ~ p.r cloecccold pr-xrly to  eoriggenerltoes   It Inosndered to be  'i.ily
cosu  prdclofaLfood - oe             ditr,   rutio- excludes need and                 sf itcpesutlat'rtiooen
eoad  uooae aryea  ics.Cs    iscvr prissar  cooks                                Cinem  Ancan1 Att-tdc- ce .Cpsis os 1er-bse   ntecmbro   iis
cc   sgaoae  csea  o  sgu)  biiar  rlie  ndoctanotren- od Ou-og the year,  -iodicg anosoato droos-.o iceadsbs le
'g-cffer end tea ar  ecioded).  Aggregate produtio  of each county                    .nto
0bused on  -ai-oa   -rege prsdo...r Prov  -egits.
_e costo ooiopl sf vadorova oeceto  votrcte               - Coepoted frc.        LABOR PERCE
-tersy cosaeo   fne   od  up.e   vilihr  c  cety     onoscaP;t"it,                 Toa  uc   oce-toaao                                                 -  oosiul   ctv   esos dolodg tree
Per Oy.  vA-lable  -upyhien vopri-e does-tl  prouto,cprala                             ocscO'cmdydltvvusgtuooe,soct,ec   ois.s
'oorts, cod ohangee 10 o~~took_itot -uppliec e-cldr an.La  feed, -ceds,        1 -vaiou- onre   r  stooepn-oile.
;untt tood Itfod pr-cesig,an  1-ne   oio~trst-t . Require-                   Feae'oon)-fel   so   oc   tpretg f total  aCorfoc
otseetienned by FtO bosd 00 phy-siig-ol cod  for -crea                                     1~tretet)-)b- force i  fsrnig, forestry. hintstg cod
ativity cod  el th oo-iderioc  -ei-  -nets  -epertt-r, body  -egito,                                     f sogapecngefcolbor -fre
ege and sec o~t_t  Obt.o..  f pooso,cd ulono                  iPpercet for          Icko-try  percet) -Labor fore-    dicing          oroto,nnfocra   o
snoteen Ocosniolo loved. odot trIos Op.'t' sater and g.. 00 pecttage of total Lahr frce
Per capita sippLY If pr-t-  groin  pse iyA)                 - rti   ot-ot 'f perPanipttioe Rate pret-ttlae   o  senl  -Prtoopnino
caPita vet noPPIY of f-o  Per Hop. liot sopip  of food is de-ocd antaisty rates ar  o-poted sototal,  ole, soc  fo-Is  shoer0 as_ :pe-
acoco  Reqoiresen~~tsfr all  otnarse  eP'snalichdk by 000poiefor a               etge   ftta,sl  and feendo vpuPluosot of a l sur-p-tiv-ly;
niosmos alloacocce of Au grams of total protein pe~r dayad  s gram  of  v0o, 1970, and 1975oas   Then   ar  [IAI's par-Pt-copt          -toanerofleooig
anima  and puJls  protein,of  hibho iP gs    should he animal proteia.                ag-secotrctor  of tIe .popanint, and 1ong com  treed.  A fro e-titra
These standards ar  -lose  tha  ths  o,f 75 gram  of total protein ask                ar rc     .cIoa   _orhee
25 grem  ofaimlp_t    a   n  vrge for the .o-Id, propose d Op FAO                   Ocas-ic Dpsedsoy Patio  -RPaic of populotc  onder 1' and 05 and ove  to
-o the Third World rood  ocey.'                                                      tie labor force In age groap of i5-ni pear.
Par oncica prooo psly from a- l and pulse - Protei  supply of food
deovd fr aimalo enIuseNCraope  s5OMEE PISTR=fICN
Chl  aEs 14) trtuii'ty  aeieboa              - Annua Oaha Pee tiounan              Pre..tage of Privase Incom  (both 00 csah and kond) - ROeoilrd by riohsnt
.o age orup I-s yearn, to children o  thideaogop  for  -t Hovel-              5 perset, rloes  Ppecn,orst 20 por..eit, and Poorest uP percen.t
opsg v-etor-  data d-1ivd fry- life toiet                                               of b...ehslde.
StEAILC                                                                                 POVOPT TAPPET 00000
lif tpectancy at bi~rth rer)-Oeaeone   f years  flf                                   ntictd Absoluit. P.c"rty looe  ce  59prcpMi)-we   o   ua
infart artalty Rate  Per thousand)  A-IAna loathe of o-fants under one                    satttIna    adqute diet plusesota  con-food  reuroots isno
pea  r vf ge Per thous_n  lice hirth,                                                   affordable.     d
Acces to Pafe  atyr opr-et of cpuplation) - total,  -bion and nva  -                    EOtimated RolaIoe- Povety iocm  Leve (US$ercpia  -  racad rurl -
incelr of puplo 'total, -rb, and rura) -oth reanocablocce- to                           Rura  relative poety ioocee leoe  Is one-thirdo  aegeprcPsi.
safe natr supply I includes created surface ounces or untretd but                       pre.s..al Itome of tie coutry. Urbon leve  In deroed from  the rura  Le-e
-acctsaict- cater ouch as that from prototetk horehcls,  prIngs,                        eitch adJustea for higher cost of living I0 urbanaes
and sanitary meil)  c p-rcotags of tleor respective population..                      Estimatd POnoulutinaOln  boue  aet    gos  ee  ?re                         rban end
en tro  area   public fountain cc  tnedpost Inatod not mere thenrrl-Petn   fppuain me  adrua)oore'oocepr"
P  ..mte. from  a house cay hocOnidered as being sithin reasonble
access of that hos.   Is rLo   a  ara  reaonblescne  ovoId Imply
stat the "oises f   ormebers of the houshold do not have no spoo  aEto..e.mic end Social Dtna Is-isic
dosproprtioat  prt of the day I. fstohisg  the fmilys. nater a.e.                                                        tcnoi  Analysi  and Pojoni.o. Departmet
August 1979



-24-                                              .               !'rof S
ECONOMIC D     7VILOFIT DATA SUIT
Amal aeorage             1979
Actual                     lot.             NProeted                         growth rates (M3         *hare
1972    1975    1976    1977    1978        1979       1980       1981       1985      1972-78  1978-80  1980-aU       o  OFD
Nscional Accountr (million.
of IIS$ at 1975 mrices and
exchange rcte#)
GDP                            12,929  15,769  16,822  17,868  18,928    20,077   21,298    22.594    29,392               6.5       6.1       6.6       100.0
Terms of trade adjustment          168       0    -456    -613       -70        -70      -387        465       -262                       -                -
GDY                            13.097  15,769  16,366  17,231  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129    29,129               8.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - consttat prices       3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489         5.865    6,068       6,486      8,271        8.8       5.2       6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices       3.020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592         4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022        7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Erports - adjusted for terms
of trade           3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359         4,355    4,464       4,897      7,760        5.4       1.2      11.6        21.1
Resource gap                       115   1,116   1,133       768   1,129      1,510    1,604       1,586        511        -         -         -           7.5
Consumption                    10,221  11,977  12.270  12,756  13,861    13,646   16,393    17,262    21,421               5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)       2,991   4,907   5.228   5.264   5.963         5,822    6,176       6,552      8,524       12.2       1.8       6.6        29.0
National savings                3,016   3,983   4,098   4.435   4,743         4,718    4,948       5,360      8,410        7.9       2.1      11.2        23.5
Domestic svings                 2,876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833         4,537    4,807       5,227      7,328        9.0      -0.3       8.8        22.6
Sector Output (millions of
US$ at 1975 orices)
Agriculture                     3,993   4.535   4,897   5,140   5,385         5,417    5,688       5,972      7,259        5.1       2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry /a                     4,087   5,314   5,836   6,285   6,690         7,043    7,536       8,064    11,061         8.6       6.2       8.0        35.1
Services                        4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853         7,617    8,074       8,558    11,072         6.0       8.5       6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 - 100)
Export price Index               47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2         117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3       13.1      11.4       7.9         -
Import price index               44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5         119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4       15.1      13.2       6.8         -
Terms of trade Index            105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9          98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7       -1.7      -1.6       1.0         -
Selected Indicators
ICOR  b                           4.5      3.4      3.4     3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9        3.3
Import elasticity                0.93    0.59    1.24    1.22    2.32          1.13      1.12       1.12       2.08
Average savings rate              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3         23.1      22.9       23.4       26.8
Imports/GDP                      25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0          29.2      28.5       28.7       28.1
Investment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5            29.0      29.0       29.0       29.0
Resource gap/GDP                  0.9      7.1      6.7     4.3      6.0        7.5       7.5        7.0        1.7
Public Finance                     1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)             -   (2 of GDP in current prices) --                Labor Force in 1978 /c             Kllliota    S)
Current revenue                  12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                  Agriculture                         7.4      44.4
Tax revenue                       9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                  Industry                            2.7      16.2
Current expenditure              13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                  Services                            5.6      33.0
Currant surplus                   0.8      1.8      1.6      1.6     2.7               Unemployed                          1.1       6.4
Capital expenditures               1.9     3.0      3.5      3.4     4.1
Total Labor Force              16.8    100.0
/a Includes mining, manufacturing. construction, and utilities.
/b The ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
9eriod to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Asia sad Pacific Region
November 1979



ANNEX I
-25-                                                       Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
Actual                            Est.             Projected
1972      1975       1976       1977       1978      1979     1980      1981       1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services              1,455      3, 170     3,387     4,161      4,736    5,790    6,620    7,650    15.500
Of which:  exports of goods              1,136      2,294     2,574      3,151      3,425    4,260    4,900    5,700    12,100
Imports of goods and services              1,632      4,412      4,763     5,248      6,322    7,910    8,920   10,210    17,400
Of which:  imports of goods              1,230      3,459     3,633      3,915      4,732    6,000    6,720   7,6905    13,100
Transfers (net)                              188        318        269        260        312      340       370       400        600
Current Account Balance                     11       -924    -1.107       -827    -1,274   -1,780   -1,930   -2,180    -1,400
Direct investment (net)                      -22        125        144        216        163      150       150       170        250
MLT loans (net)                              140        359      1,040        662        834    1,000    1,300    1,670       1,180
Official-source loans (net)                 94        117        282        332       333       420       520       710       780
Private-source loans (net)                  46        242        758       330        501       580       780       960       400
Other capital La                              56        -81       -238        113        233       47       100       120        170
Overall Balance /b                          94       -521      -161         164       -54      -583      -380     -200        400
International reserves (end-year) /c         551      1,358      1,640     1,525      1,883    2,423    2,130    2,130        3,200
Grants and Loan Commitments
Official grants                              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total public loans                         422.0      769.4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
IBRD                                      29.5      114.0     226.0      317.5      533.0
IDA                                       10.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      28.0
Other multilateral                        43.3      106.0      64.2      207.3      189.2
Governments                              275.5      182.3     391.6      122.3      370.4
of which CPE                             0.0       13.2        5.9       0.0        0.0
Suppliers                                  2.0       52.5      52.0      194.2       76.7
Financial institutions                    61.7      314.6     476.4      341.7   1,000.5
Bonds                                      0.0        0.0     367.2      129.7      219.2
Other MLT loans                            130.0      283.0      603.6      134.8     914.0
Memorandum Items
Grant element of commitments                28.0       16.4        8.8       14.7      16.8
Average interest (Z)                         5.4        7.4        8.3        7.9        7.4
Average maturity (years)                    17.3       16.7       13.1       15.3       15.9
Medium & Long-Term Debt (disbursed only)
Total debt outstanding (end of
period)                                1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Including undisbursed                    2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Public debt service                       -149.6    -225.3    -239.2    -441.9    -468.1
of which:  interest                      -51.6      -73.0     -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
Other MLT debt service                    -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Total debt service                        -317.2    -458.0    -522.7    -799.0    -910.0
Debt Burden
Outstanding
Debt service ratio                          22.1       14.9       15.7       18.0      20.0                        December 31, 1978
Debt service ratio Id                       22.7       15.6       16.4       19.5      20.6                          Amount  Percent
Debt service/GDP                             3.8        3.0        2.9        3.7        4.0   External Debt        (0US  mln)
Public debt service/government                                                                 (disbursed only)
revenue                                   17.0        9.1        9.9       12.0      20.1      IBRD                  546    13.0
Bank Group /e        576    13.8
Terms                                                                                              Other multi-
lateral            2 77     6.6
Interest on total DOD/total DOD              6.1        5.4        4.1        6.4        4.0     Governments         1,039    24.8
Total debt service/total DOD                17.7       16.9       10.5       15.8       13.3     Suppliers             271      6.5
Financial
Dependency Ratios                                                                                     institutions     1,254    29.9
Bonds                7 71    18.4
Gross disbursements/imports (GNFS)          30.2       21.4       37.9       28.7      34.3      Total public
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)                 12.7        7.7        6.1        5.4        5.4       MLT debt          4,188   100.0
Net transfer/gross disbursements            41.9       36.2       16.2       18.9      23.2      Other MLT debt    2,651    63.3
Other MILT debt
Exposure                                                                                              (in,l. un-
disbursed)       3,293    78.6
IBRD disb./gross total disb.                 4.7        9.8        5.5        7.4       8.3      Total public
Bank Group disb./gross total disb./e         4.8       10.7        6.2        7.5        8.3       debt (incl.
IBRD DOD/total DOD                           7.8        8.0        7.2        7.3       8.0        undisbursed)    7,563   180.6
Bank Group DOD/total DOD /e                  7.8        8.6        7.8        7.8       8.4      Total MLT debt
I8RD debt service/total debt service         4.4        5.5        6.6        5.6       6.9        (incl. on-
Bank Group debt serv./total debt. serv./e 4.4           5.6        6.7        5.6        7.0       disbursed)       10,856   259.2
/a  Short-term  capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b  Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves", IFS).
/d  Includes net direct investment income.
/e Excludes IFC.
East Asia and Pacific Region
February 198n



-26-                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of January 31, 1980
Loan or
Credit                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number    FY       Borrower                Purpose                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                            264.0   19.5
720-PH   1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing & Storage            14.3                0.8
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                                22.0                0.9
349-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.        Education II                             12.7        0.0 /a
939-PH1  1973           "                 Ports                             6.1                0.1
950-PH   1973           "                 Second Highways                  68.0                1.6
984-PH   1974                             Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation    9.5                   2.7
998-PH   1974           "                 DFC-DBP I                        50.0                4.0
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.0                3.4
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.        Population                       25.0               12.5
1048-PH   1974           "                 Shipping                         20.0                9.7
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  DFC                                  30.0                5.4
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                    17.0                6.9
1102-PH   1975           "                 Rural Development                25.0               13.6
1120-PH   1975           "                 Small & Medium Industries        30.0                1.1
1154-PH   1976                             Magat Irrigation                 42.0               19.8
1190-PH   1976           "                 DFC-DPB II                       75.0                9.3
1224-T-PH 1976                             Education III                    25.0               14.2
1225-PH   1976           "                 Livestock II                     20.5                7.1
1227-PH   1976           "                 Chico Irrigation                 50.0               37.3
1272-T-PH 1976                             Manila Urban                     10.0                6.2
1282-PH   1976           "                 Manila Urban                     22.0               13.6
1269-PH   1976                             Second Grain Processing          11.5               10.1
1270-PH   1976           "                 Second Fisheries                 12.0                4.2
1353-PH   1977                             Third Highways                   95.0               72.9
1367-PH   1977                             Jalaur Irrigation                15.0                9.4
1374-PH   1977                             Fourth Education                 25.0               16.8
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.5              22.4
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.         National Irrg. Sys. Improv.   50.0                  40.7
1415-PH   1977           "                 Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                  18.1
1421-PH   1977           "                 2nd Rural Dev. Land Stlmt.       15.0               13.5
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.0               56.4
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming          8.0                7.9
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC (PDCP)                           30.0               24.9
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                  54.8
790-PH   1978           "                 Rural Infrastructure                     28.0       27.7
S.8-PH   1978           "                 Education                         2.0                1.9
[547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                60.0               44.6
[555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC-PISO                             15.0                4.8
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                         150.0              102.4
[572-PH   1978           "                 Industrial Investment III        80.0               60.5
1615-PH   1978           "                Manila Water Supply II            88.0               87.5
1626-PH   1979           "                 National Extension               35.0               35.0
1639-PH   1979           "                 Magat River Multipurpose         21.0               20.7
1646-PH   1979                             Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                  15.8
1647-PH   1979                             Second Urban Development         32.0               30.4
1661-PH   1979                             Highways IV                     100.0               99.8
1710-PH   1979           "                 Water Supply II                  16.0               16.0
920-PH   1979                             Water Supply II                          22.0       22.0
1727-PH   1979                             Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                  25.0
923-PH   1979                             Population II                            40.0       40.0
Total                                                                1,970.9  122.2   1,156.4
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                            158.5
Total now outstanding                                                1.812.4  122.2
Amount sold                                              24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        16.0            8.3     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                              1,804.1  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                    1,066.7   89.7   1,156.4
/a Balance of $43,000 to be disbursed in March 1980.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of January 31, 1980
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0       -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -       4.0     4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone             4.5       -      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4     1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the             -       2.2     2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1     8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0       -     15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3     2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5       -      1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5          0.7     2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -      1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0       -      7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2     2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2     3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5       -      3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1          -      2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                    4.0      1.1     5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                        -        0.1     0.1
Total gross commitments                       77.1    16.7    93.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              33.1    12.3    45.4
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             44.0      4.4    48.4
Total Undisbursed                              7.6       -       7.6



-28-                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION LI
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
The original project concept of constructing integrated large
capacity rice mills was amended in 1972 and the emphasis shifted to rehabili-
tation of existing rice milling facilities. A further amendment in 1974
included corn in addition to rice, authorized local governments and the
National Grains Authority to borrow funds under the project, and streamlined
procurement procedures. The project is now progressing satisfactorily and
most mills are working to near capacity. Arrears are still a cause for
concern, and DBP has been asked to step up its supervision and technical and
management assistance to help deal with this problem. Bank funds have been
fully committed; however, because of the long construction period for some
of the larger subprojects, the Closing Date has been postponed to September
30, 1980.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14. 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels has been completed. Diversion from one
of the two dams started in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule.
There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the service area
improvement works and, following award, some additional delays were
experienced due to an extended period for irrigation water delivery in 1977.
These setbacks have caused a two-year delay in project completion which is
now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-29-                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Mlillion Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 60% of project
works completed against the appraisal target of 75%. Due to initial delays
and recent shortages of fuel and cement, the project is likely to be com-
pleted in June 1981. The total project area is likely to be reduced by
about 3,500 ha due to flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Project cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $36.5
million, with the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced
from 15% at appraisal to about 12%.
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
As of March 1979, physical implementation of the irrigation and
drainage components was about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays
in contract award and recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies,
construction has slowed down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation
system contract has been awarded, progress is expected to improve. The
road subproject is about 66% complete. Disbursements are slow, with only
25% of the loan amount allocated for road works so far disbursed. Physical
progress has been slow, and shortages in fuel and cement have prevented any
improvement in the construction rate.
Loan No. 1154      Magat M4ultipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well. The water management
training is continuing satisfactorily. A delay in the contract award for
improvements to the project diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in
the completion of the project.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to exceed appraisal
estimates, with subloans for beef production development lagging behind.
The project's list of goods has been amended to allow for this fact. Funds
for the project's nutrition research funds are unlikely to be used, due to
difficulties in recruitment of consultants. A revised component will be
included in the next project. The establishment of the monitoring and
evaluation system is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory
equipment for the Feed Quality Control Program is complete. Project funds
have been fully committed, and the loan should be fully disbursed by
mid-1980. Repayments of many of DBP's borrowers under the project are still
under grace, but a build-up of interest arrears is beginning to emerge. As
of June 30, 1979, principal and interest arrears under this project had
reached about 12.7% of the portfolio. The Bank has assisted DBP with the
development of an intensive action-oriented collection program which will be
further reinforced under the proposed Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit
Project. Thanks to government approval of increased salary scales, DBP has
significantly improved its staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's
organizational structure have been instituted and other organizational
developments are under consideration.
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Since the contracts were awarded,
however, progress has improved and work is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the invest-
ment climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to
the smaller millers, and this should result in better repayments. Demand
for subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by
prospective applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. The Bank has,



-31-                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
in consultation with DBP, developed a list of detailed recommendations on
actions to be taken. In the meantime, DBP has forwarded to the Bank
various suggestions concerning the broadening of the project to promote
better and faster utilization of the funds. The proposals are curently
being examined.
Loan No. 1270       Second Fisheries Prolect; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan was fully committed in August 1979.
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 28% compared with appraisal
estimates of 34% as of August 1979. Force account work is proceeding satis-
factorily. Nine of the 24 contracts for civil works have failed, and NIA has
taken over eight of them for completion by force account. With the equipment
now on hand, NIA is capable of completing this work satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Investments under the project are generally performing well,
although the commitment rate is slow and will decline even further with the
recent termination of large tractor financing. To help accelerate commit-
ments, recommendations made by the Central Bank, supported by the Bank, are
being implemented, including: the expansion of lending categories to include
additional agricultural investments; assignment of authority to the Central
Bank to evaluate and finance agricultural projects not specifically identified
in the Rules and Regulations; the addition of private development banks to the
eligible financial intermediaries; expansion of training provisions to include
funds for domestic and foreign training of Central Bank staff; more flexible
reporting procedures; improved collection procedures; delegation of responsi-
bility for lending for power tillers to the rural banks; and revised methods
for calculating equity contributions. Repayment performance continues to be
unsatisfactory; however, causes are of a long-term sectoral nature and will be
addressed in that context. Vehicles for Central Bank field staff have been
procured, and contracts awarded for the construction of the Agricultural
Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center and for the Farm Mechanization Study.
Completion of the project is now expected to be delayed by about 18 months.



-32-                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained with infra-
structure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in agriculture.
Problems associated with legitimatizing land holdings are now better
understood by concerned authorities. Some initial steps toward resolving them
have now been taken. Feasibility studies towards a forward program is well
underway, and have been expanded to include policy studies on the future use
of, or developments within, unalienated lands in general.
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 19813
Operations have started in all project components except research,
which is expected to begin early in 1980. However, progress has been lagging
behind schedule. In order to stimulate the slow smallholder enrollment rate
in the treefarming component, DBP has recently eased the collateral terms and
application procedures for treefarm subloans. Insufficiency of government
funds has delayed the other components to varying degrees, particularly the
Abra pine plantation component for which vehicles have still not been been
acquired. A gradual improvement of this situation is expected, although
funding could continue to be a problem in 1980. Disbursements have started at
a moderate rate.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule and has
started to arrive at the project sites. Topographic surveys and mapping have
been completed for about 80% of the project area and design of project works
is under way. Construction work has started and is primarily devoted to
service roads and structures along main and secondary canals. A new Project
Manager and his Assistant are providing excellent leadership in getting the
project moving. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31. 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Design of about 70 km
of village roads has been completed, and the balance is expected to be
completed by April 1980. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the di-version tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor's operations.
Diversion through tunnel 2 was completed in December 1979, and tunnel 1 will
be ready for diversion at the end of March 1980. Excavation on the main
contract is ahead of schedule, but there has been some delay with the
batching plant and in the trial embankment.
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will be applied first in four pilot areas which have
already been designated, to be followed by a further 12 areas by April 1980.
MOA Regional Directors have not yet been appointed; however, the names of
proposed candidates are with the President of the Philippines and a decision
is expected in early 1980. Additional staff appointments are being made but
vehicle purchases are delayed because of the current concern at the highest
level with the energy crisis. All purchases of gasoline-consuming equipment
and vehicles (except for motorcycles) are at present held in abeyance.
However, it is anticipated that the vehicles will be purchased within the
next 2 to 3 months. Funds for this purpose have been allocated in the 1980
budget and vehicle suppliers have been pre-qualified.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The design for the Baligatan diversion dam and main canals has
been completed, and NIA expects to start construction work soon. Overall
progress is satisfactory.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Since the loan became effective, the Land Bank has improved internal
procedures and strengthened field operations, although staffing is still below
required strength. Lending under the project for agricultural term credit
has commenced in most subcomponents, although loan disbursement has been very
slow. No disbursements have been made for infrastructure improvements due to
difficulties with the Government's budgetary procedures. The trend in imple-
mentation is improving, although progress will be slower than expected in the
foreseeable future.
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1. 1980; proposed Date of Effectiveness:
May 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on May 1, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939       Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension. The Closing Date of the loan has recently been extended
to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works contract guarantee retention monies
and the costs of the next ports project feasibility study. The latest
project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950       Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. These problems have now been largely overcome. Further major
problems are not anticipated, and the project is expected to be completed by
March 1980, except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for
completion around August 1980. This represents a delay of about 3 years,



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
with a new Closing Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated
at about $189 million, an increase of about 47% over the original appraisal
estimate, due primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have
been experienced thrDughout the project.
Loan No. 1048       Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee
payments. About 50% of the loan has been disbursed and a further 25%
committed. Loan applications covering the balance of uncommitted funds
are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 27% complete. Major problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts, with
7 out of 14 contracts terminated due to unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors. Two new contracts have been awarded and bidding is underway
for the remainder. As a consequence, delays and costs higher than the
original bids are expected. Contracts for the improvement of minor roads
have been awarded but Presidential approval is being awaited for some of
them before work can begin. After substantial initial delays, the road
maintenance and restoration programs are now making satisfactory progress.
All 28 workshop contracts have been awarded but work has only begun on 8 of
them, awaiting release of budgetary funds for the rest. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery is virtually complete.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisers to MPH completed their assignment in November
1979. Training advisers to MPH will complete their work by M4arch 1980.
Overall project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates,
but project completion is likely to be delayed until late 1982, more than 24
months later than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the late
start of some critical activities and to the serious delays in the execution
of some of the road construction contracts.



-36-                       ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Loan No. 1661     Fourth Highway Pro_ject; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Prequalification of contractors for the road construction works is
underway, utilizing new procedures agreed during loan negotiations.
Proposals for the technical assistance to MPH and MLGCD have been received
from the short-listed consulting firms and evaluation is in process. A
short-list of prospective consulting firms for the design and construction
supervision of workshops is being prepared. Preparatory work for the
continuation of the road maintenance and road restoration programs begun
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) is scheduled to begin within
three months. Selection of technical assistance and consultants to MPWTC
for the continuation of the transport planning advisory services, begun
under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) is in process. Land acqui-
sition for road construction and workshops is under way. Prequalification
for equipment suppliers has begun.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224     Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has established an autonomous textbook agency to
manage book development, production, and distribution for public elementary
and secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with only minimal (four month) delays, and 15 million
textbooks have been produced and distributed. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimates, and disbursements are about 66% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374     Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about nine months behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures are being taken by the Govern-
ment. Enrollment projections and staff development programs show that the
project is making steady progress towards its development impact targets.
Project costs are close to appraisal estimates, but disbursements are about
41% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the implementation delays.



-37-                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is function-
ing smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs
and printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio
Assisted Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education
for Teachers (CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas
on schedule (Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET will most likely begin
another experimental utilization in Mindanao in early 1980. In order to
provide information on the desirability of nationwide project implementa-
tion, the pilot project includes a substantial evaluation component which is
proceeding smoothly.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
May 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on May 1, 1980.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T   1Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 95% of the infrastructure
and 1,480 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services com-
ponent are complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have been
designed and contracts tendered with Package I amended and Package II await-
ing Presidential approval. The project is generally progressing satisfac-
torily with many initial difficulties overcome and lessons learned which
should hasten implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
M4ay 13. 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Well drilling activities are in progress in five Water Districts,
and bids are being evaluated for distribution networks, pumping stations and
reservoirs. The scope of subprojects was revised by LWUA and approved by



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
communities in public hearings. Difficulties in contracting local firms for
drilling have resulted in delays in the preparation of feasibility studies
in remote areas. LWUA has been requested to present a plan for assistance
to Water Districts in institution-building, and proposing solutions to the
scarcity of local well drilling contractors, including the-possibility of
international bidding.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Proiect; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met. A
tariff increase of 60% was implemented in October, 1978, and MWSS met the 2%
rate of return required for 1979. However, it apepars that they will not be
able to meet the 5% rate of return covenanted for 1980 since the
implementation of an additional tariff increase of 25 centavos, scheduled
for October 1979, has been postponed (because of the overall impact of
inflationary pressures resulting from recent oil price increases) and the
completion of the treatment plant is behind schedule.
Loan No. 1647-PH Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation has begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage
contracts in Mlanila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of
production.
Credit 920-PH Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of feasibility
studies for the first group of 20 cities have been hired. A new project
manager was appointed and LWUA is actively promoting the creation of new
Water Districts. Work has started on the development of a financial
planning and control system.



-39-                         ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 nillion Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30. 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate.  The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from December 31,
1979 to June 30, 1980 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. As of
the end of December 1979, the undisbursed funds amounted to $1.0 million.
Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consul-
tants' services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than
two years behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at
$114.1 million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate
($92 million). The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is
$5.2 million (9%). The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion
of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Procurement has been slow, with the result that disbursements have
been behind schedule. Although the Bank waived the 8% rate of return
requirement for 1978, NPC achieved a rate of return of 7% and expected to
achieve 8% in 1979 after taking over plant previously owned and operated by
Meralco. It is unlikely that NPC achieved an 8% rate of return in 1979
since costs, especially of fuel, were higher than forecast. Plans for
establishing a training center, which was to be financed by the Bank, have
been deferred.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification: $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
tender document preparation and delays in procurement. However, following
reorganization of NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank
project materials were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late
1979 following receipt of project materials, and first disbursements are
expected before June 1980. NEA's financial performance and position in 1977
and 1978 was good, and steps are being taken by NEA to strengthen its
monitoring of the financial performance of the cooperatives, especially
their compliance with the Government's financial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974: Date of Effectiveness:
September 9. 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been used by
DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively large industrial
projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300
smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the
loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12. 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975: Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The original DBP ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan
have been fully disbursed. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Disbursements on this component have been slow and,
therefore, $1.7 million out of the original allocation of $2.3 million has
been reallocated to DBP, who can utilize this amount quickly. The Small
Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry
has been implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.



-41-
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 119U      Industrial Investment: $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
In February, 1977, the Executive Directors approved a proposal to
allocate $25 million of the funds from this loan for small and medium
industries, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect was signed
on March 16, 1977. Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower
than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a
whole, improved in 1978 and 1979. The loan has since been fully committed
by DBP for subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of January 31, 1980 commitments
under the loan amounted to $12.6 million. The project progress is satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The actual pace of commitment of the loan was much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully committed
by PISO. As of January 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to $10.2 million.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Commitments for subprojects under the large industry component
amounted to $45.8 million as of January 31, 1980. In addition, as of the
same date the small and medium industry component had been disbursed to the
extent of $7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



-42-
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29. 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose
$24.5 million was provided under the loan. Loan utilization is expected to
begin soon. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
As of October 1979, 186 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed, 28 were under construction and 5 had not been started.
Contractors have completed about 90% of all construction work. During the
period January to October 1979, many project components experienced
implementation delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart
funds. While this problem was partially solved by internal transfer and
reallocation of funds it is likely that there will be a six-to twelve-
month delay in project completion.  Following the disbanding on December 31,
1979, of the administration unit for this project, a Project Coordinator was
appointed for both this and the second project.  This action is expected to
speed up significantly the completion of this first project. In January
1979 the project was amended to include financing of additional vehicles and
equipment for service delivery; training; information, education and
communication campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second
population project. The amended total project cost is $40 million. The
total cost estimate had decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly
to price increases not materializing as forecast. The management situation
in the Commission on Population (POPCOM) is improving and a functional
analysis of the Ministry of Health is under way. The recommendations of
this study, if implemented, should considerably strengthen the health care
delivery system.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 , 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979. Implemen-
tation started on January 1, 1980 when funds were made available from MOH and
POPCOM. Preparatory arrangements for training components of the project are
proceeding satisfactorily, and information, education and communications
activities are being developed successfully at POPCOM and MOH. The 1980
work plan has been reviewed and found satisfactory. Generally, overall
progress is satisfactory.



_ 43 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1 - Timetable_of Ke, Events
(a)  Time eaken by the coup try     The preparation of ZIP program started
to pr!pare the project:        in Februaty 1978 by the NHA and the
preparation of MMINUTE program began
in September 1978 by the MPW assisted
by consultants who are financed under
Bank's first urban loan.
(b)  First Bank mission to          February 1979
consider the project:
(c)  Departure of appraisal         June 1979
mission:
(d)  Completion of negotiations:   February 16, 1980
(e)  Planned date of effective-    July 1980
ness:
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.      The main conditions of the loan are:
(a)  The Government would prepare three year rolling investment programs
for MMA and for development of sites under the project for the Bank's
review (paras. 37 and 56).
(b) All livelihood subprojects would be prepared and reviewed by TRC
in accordance with eligibility and appraisal criteria agreed with
the Bank (para. 52).
(c) The Government would undertake to fully staff the Program and
District Offices for ZIP and MMINUTE and other agencies in
accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank (para. 55).
(d) The Borrower would undertake a comprehensive nationwide review of
the borrowing capacity of local governments in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para. 61).



- 44 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The conditions of sale and lease and method of plot allocation for
the residential properties to be developed under the project will
be made in consultation with the Bank and will be announced to the
public prior to the start of construction for each such develop-
ment (paras. 62 and 63).
2. Additional Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) The establishment of a Management Coordination Board (para. 49).
(b) The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower,
NHA and MMC (para. 58).
(c)  The signing of a Subsidiary Investment Agreement between the
Borrower and TRC (para. 58).



-  \                                              '                                                  R:       0 \    ;       \ N  \    ,S          i,l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
=    l   |                 Oj\-.\            :                                                                                              i:dn0\   f                        /      / '
X   Do   nnS c 1\ 7   i  )i '/ 2/, ]
1~~
-22CS               '                                              .I                  






______________  _______ ______________________                                                                                                                                PRO 14665~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD 166
-                     ~~~~~~PHILIPPINES                OTBR17
-  -  "~~~~~~~~~~~''  -  .                                          .              . ~~~~~~~~~~~~Thirdi Urban Development Projlect
TYPICAL ZIP UPGRADING
I                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HULO ESTATE
f]       '-1   ~~~~~~~_--Plot boutrd.r,es
I                        )  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,3 00 meter cycle / footpaths
~~~~  i / l               J    J           I       f    I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.00,,tetr footpaths
B ~~~~y'"-oo- ~~~~~~~~~tL~~~~lL  --   ''''~~~~~~~~~~~                   . ~~.00 meter access paths
I  '''  'T"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -       !''    I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~    -         - ~~~~~Reta ined ssrootores (1371
If   I  L   J                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Slightly mood str-t-rs 1101
-~~~~  '-F-'--    II       I           1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Relocated stroctoreS l17
I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ Z~~~~~Vac-t Plots
-7                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Open spacs
+L   f'~~~~~~~~~~'1i                                  ___~~~~~~~~~EoistiFg roads
''  Risti.g c--moityhodng
'---I         '--'i-I                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Phase JI, proposed plots
__            __             I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            SCHOOL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Phase aI, oi tio ,-rotre,
1140                                                                                       C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~   ~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~ETERS BC    (B   20    30    40    50
H      JI-PURPOSEI~f[                                                              LLi
F  I                                     1                         1  1                                                                                                   'I~~~~~~~~~~~~1  -
J,- 
I          I3
__             j/                 j   1/   II    /1 ~~~~'          T~~         ~         -                 ItITOTTrs               II~~






IBRD 14666
OCTOBER 1979
PHILIPPINES
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                  /    F4VA
TYPICAL MMINUTE UPGRADING AREA                                                                                                 s"
ZONE 14, MANILA                                                                             /
PROPOSED  EXISTING
Streets to be improved                                        /
Other streets                         /                           .                   i
I- ---$- Railway
Stream                                                   't
Water mains                                          2                                  ST
Ai                Water distribution points
Sewers                                           2  /
Foul sewers /
o                 Night soil reception tanks                        /
*        i       l Public toilets and bath houses
f    .         04     s.
Sr
DRAW/NG NOT TO SCAZE
N5-4
ST.
hO    0~
STL
J                                  /. ..                                                    t
X          'tb    W~~   *-'---------
A *<,   w  z   ,//                    /f                    Th,t map has been prepa.ed by the
World Bank  a staff  -iascly fe r
/>                                                           the,> X <'    oncas rz fudy m en ca o f  mh e   roz a dor If s     of
4   /   -                                    j                                                           tht  o r a ce po rt c t o  sh, ch   b natt nc h d
'9                                                                            bo d a -  s h -  o n   th ,s   m p
do not nPlY\  0 the part bf the
10~~~~~~ World Bash and, fit fhtate af
/idg- .t on  the lega  sta 2s 0f
/),                                                               ba   te-rf,sory or asp essoroeso rot
es~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
S                                                                   sa
0<7n.. s,, t<                                              z 
i   '8~~~**_             ~       1/70 



