Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C , /gc;20 - /
Reprt No. 5887-KE
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 14, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents masy not otherwrise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official currency unit in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling; large values
are often expressed in Kenya Pcunds (K£) in official documents.
K Sh 1.00             US$0.0606
K£ 1.00               K Sh 20
KE 1.00               US$1.2121
US$1.00              K£ 0.8250
US$1.00               K Sh 16.5  1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)        =    2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Assoc.
EARC      -    East African Railways Corporation
KfW       -   Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
KR        -    Kenya Railways Corporation
MoTC      -    Ministry of Transport and Communications
ODA       -    Overseas Development Administration
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
11 Since December 1982 the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of = KSh 14.06. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 16.5 has been used in
evaluating this project.



FOR OFFIAL UU ONLY
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE  ......    .....................    iv
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY  ...       ......................    v-vii
I.  INTRODUCTION..                                              1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .                  .                   2
A.  Transport System ...............................      2
B. Regional Importance...                                 2
C.  Government's Policy in the Transport Sector           3
D.  Kenya Railways Corporation (KR) .......... . ....     4
1. Management and Manpower. .                         4
2. Property..                                         5
3. Performance. .                                     6
E.  Bank Group's Role .......    .......................  7
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................    9
A.  Identification and Preparation .................      9
B.  Objectives and Description .....................      9
1.  Institutional Development ..............          9
2.  Motive Power ......     .........................    11
3.  Operational Improvements ......... ..........   12
C.  Project Cost and Financing Plan ............. ...   12
D.  Implementation ......     ...........................    13
E.  Procurement ........ ............................. .........    14
F.  Disbursements .......................5...........    i
G.  Reports and Audits ...       ...........................   15
IV.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ......      ...................  16
A. Benef4ts              ...16
B. Risks    ...17
C. Sensitivity Analysis    ... .17
V.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION....   18
A. Past Performance .              .                     18
B. KRRs Action Plan. .                                   19
C.  KR's Financial Projections       . .      .20
D. Financial Targets           ...22
Thi document has a restkted ditrbuton and may be used by rcients onl i te penfortnex
of their ocil duties Its contwts may not othewie be diclosedI without Wodd BDnk authoiaton.



- Li -
Table of Contents (contimued)
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION  ..............  23
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission Which
visited Kenya in JunelJuly 1985. Tha mission was composed of Messrs. Silvio
Capoluongo (mission leader), G. Temple, J. Van der Ven (Bank) and Messrs. M.
Bery, B. Christianson, and Mrs. J. M. Holt (Consultants). In December 1586
M. Bery and S. Capoluongo returned to Kenya to update and revise the report.
Finally Mr. B. Bostrom, Sr. Economist, contributed to the revision of the
report. Mrs. Yvonne Hensley and Dr. M. Fenyo assisted in processing the
report.



- iii -
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
2.1        KR's Organization
2.2        KR's Manpower and Training
2.3        KR's Property
2.4        KR's Operating Performance
2.5        KR's Traffic Review
2.6        KR's Financial Evaluation
3.1        New Organization:  KR and the Government
3.2        Project Components
3.3        Locomotive Requirements
3.4        Performance Objectives
3.5        Cost Estimates
3.6        Implementation Schedule
3.7        Financing Plan
4.1        Economic Analysis
4.2        Potential Freight Traffic by Rail
4.3        Costs and Benefits
4.4        Details of Economic Analysis
4.5        Sensitivity Analysis
MAP
IBRD No. 14712R Kenya



- iv -
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
1. Draft Agreement between Kenya Railways Corporation and the Uganda
Railways Corporation for Railway and Marine Services between Kenya and
Uganda.
2. Kenya Railways Economic Survey 1984.
3. Kenya Railways Working Timetable, Brown Waweru, Chief Traffic Manager,
April 1981.
4. Annual Reports, Kenya Railways, 1979, 1980, 1981, 1982, 1983.
5.  Financial Report, Kenya Railways, Balance Sheet as of December 31, and
Operating Statements for 1984.
6. Kenya Ra±lways, Short Term Action Program-e,  Main Report - Volume 1,
Appendices - Volume 2, Coopers & Lybrand Associates, June 1985.
7. SFort-Term Action Programme, Summary of Key Points, Coopers and Lybrand
Associates, June 1985.
8. Draft Proposal, Financing Implications, "The Funding Gap', Coopers and
Lybrand, May-June 1985.
9. Kenya Railways, Training Requirements Study, Final Report, Volumes I,
II, III-Appendices, and Executive Summary, Coopers and Lybrand, February
1985.
10. Motive Power Study, Volume I-Smary, Volume II Main Report, Volume III-
Appendices, Henderson Busby International Limited in association with
Coopers and Lybrand Associates, March 1985.
11. Government of Kenya, Ministry of Transport and Communications, Kenya
Railways Corporation, Study of Central Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering Workshops-Nairobi, Draft Final Report, Rendel, Palmer and
Tritton, Consulting Engineers, January 1985.
12. Training Requirements Study, Building Development Plant, Norman &
Dawbarn; Coopers and Lybrand Associates, February 1985.
13. Kenya Railways, Headquarters Organizational Structure Study, Final
Report, Executive Summary, and Appendices, Coopers and Lybrand
Associates, March 1985.
14. Kenya Railways Corporate Plan, 1986187 - 1990191, October 1986



KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Kenya
Beneficiary:        Kenya Railways Corporation (KR)
IDA Credit Amount:  SDR 21.8 million (US$28 million)
Terms:              Standard.  Government would onlend the proceeds of the
IDA Credit to Kenya Railways at an interest rate 1.1
times the Bank rate at the time of negotiation; four
years grace period; and final maturity of 20 years,
except for funds for technical assistance on standard
IDA terms. Beneficiary would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project
Description:        The project would comprise the following:
(a) Institutional Development --reorientation of Kenya
Railway's management toward more commercial
practices, introduction of modern management skills,
and human resource development.
(b) Increased Motive Power --through the purchase of
locomotive spare parts, improved locomotive repair
and maintenance, and training.
(c) Improved Train Operations --through organizational
changes, minor capital investments, and technical
assistance.



- vi -
Estimated Prolect Cost:  (including taxes and duties, estimated at about
US$2.8 million equivalent)
Foreign           2 of     Z of
Local         Total   Foreign   Base
--(million US$'s)--    Exchange  Costs
A. Institutional Development
Corporate Mgement             0.4    1.8    2.2        82         6
Operational Management        0.3    1.2    1.5        80         4
Human Resources               1.1    2.2    3.3        67         9
1.8    5.2    7.0        74        19
B. Motive Power
Availability Increase         1.7   15.2   16.9        90        45
Workshop Recruiting           1.5    3.8    5.3         72       15
3.2   19.0   22.2        86        60
C. Operational Improvements
Traffic Management            0.6    1.8    2.4         75        7
Permanent Way Efficiency      1.0    4.0    5.0        80        14
1.6    5.8    7.4        78        21
TOTAL BASE COSTS                  6.6   30.0   36.6         82      100
Physical Contingencies            0.7    3.0    3.7         81       10
Price Contingencies               1.0   4.2    5.2          81       14
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               8.3   37.2   45.5         82      124
Financing Plan:
Local  Foreign   Total
----- US$ million ----
ODA                                        0.0    13.3       13.3
IDA                                        4.1    23.9       28.0
Kenya Railways                             4.2     0.0        4.2
Total Expenditures                         8.3    37.2       45.5
ss. ~  m        = ,. m



- vii-
Estimated Disbursements:
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
------      - US$ million -------------
IDA Credit:
Annual               0.6   3.6   5.9   6.2   5.0   3.6   2.3   0.8
Cumulative          0.6   4.2  10.1  16.3  21.3  24.9  27.2  28.0
Economic Rate of Return: 20%
Benefits and Risks:    The main economic benefits of this project are
expected to be savings in transportation casts. The
project will enable Kenya Railways (KR) te carry
more freight traffic than it could carry without the
project, at a lower cost than road transporters.
The economic rate of return of the project was
calculated at 20%. The institutional development
benefits of the project are also expected to be
substantial and can be expected to contribute to
improving management of the parastatal sector in
Kenya.
The major risk of the project is that the projected
increase in rail traffic fails to materialize
because of insufficient Government support for
railway reform or ineffective use of techuical
assistance by KR. The Cabinet's approval of KR's
Corporate Plan and an intensive supervision effort
to ensure understanding of and support for this
project at all levels of Government should mitigate
this risk. The sensitivity analysis shows that if
benefits were 20S lower than projected the project's
economic rate of return would still be satisfactory
at 162.
Nap:       IBAD 14712R Kenya
May 14, 1987



KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Kenya has requested the Bank Group's financing
for a project to provide training and technical assistance and urgently
needed equipment and spares to Kenya Railways Corporation (KR). The
estimated project cost is US$45.5 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of 822. KR would contribute US$4.2 million equivalent
to the project; the UK about £8.0 million (US$13.3 million equivalent); and
IDA, US$28.0 million equivalent.
1.02     The proposed project would be the Bank Group's second operation
with KR. Its major objective would be to support institutional reform and
structural adjustment of the railway sector. In the short term, the
project aims to improve KR's performance through the provision of technical
assistance, appropriate training and essential equipment and spares. It
would also establish a zound basis for long term improvement in the overall
performance of the transport sector by enabling KR to adapt to its
increasingly competitive environment. The railway's role as a long
distance carrier of bulk commodities is vital to the economies of Kenya and
landlocked countries in the region--Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Eastern Zaire,
and Southern Sudan--and the entire region can benefit from an improvement
in KR's performance.



II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport System
2.01     Kenya's transport system is well developed and fairly efficient;
primary transport arteries include a railway, a network of main national
roads and an oil pipeline between Mombasa and Nairobi. The road and the
railway run parallel in a corridor strctching from the port of Mombasa to
the Ugandan border, roughly 1,000 km in length. The corridor is of major
economic importance, serving over half of Kenya's population and much of
its agricultural and commercial activity. Inland water transport is of
little significance. Aircraft carry largely high value freight and
tourists. The bulk of road transporters, as well as domestic air
chartering companies, are privately owned and operate in a deregulated
environment; other transport institutions are Government owned. Although
autonomous and required to be financially self-sufficient by statute, these
parastatals are nonetheless subject to Government intervention,
particularly in the areas of tariffs, salary structure, employee levels,
and social service requirements. The Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MoTC) has overall responsibility for developing, operating
and maintaining the transport infrastructure.
2.02     Kenya's road network is well integrated and totals some 53,800 km,
12% of which are paved. Many sections are in poc.r condition owing to
vehicle overloading, insufficient maintenance and poor initial design.
Nonetheless, roads have become the principal mode of transport, capturing
an increasingly large share of the total freight transport market (55% in
1978 and an estimated 652 in 1986), including an important share of the
long-haul business. Efficient, thriving and largely private, Kenya's road
transport industry consists of a half a dozen large companies each
operating 50 or more trucks, a large number of smaller firms and owner
operators, and Kenatco, a Government-owned company.  Total vehicle fleet is
estimated at 275,000, the bulk of which are passenger cars and light
commercial vehicles. In the past, taxes levied on heavy vehicles did not
cover the cost of road use by these vehicles. This has contributed to the
diversion of traffic from rail to road. Over half of freight carried by
both modes originates at Mombass's well-equipped deep water port. The
largest share of imports are carried by road, even though rail rates are
substantially lower than trucking charges. Road transporters actively
solicit traffic and excel in speed of delivery and turnaround of containers
while rail is less aggressive and suffers from a lack of motive power
availability as well.
2.03     Rail nevertheless remPins vital to Kenya's economy, carrying
annually over 3.5 million tons of freight for an average length of haul of
over 500 km. The railway once handled substantially more freight but lost
about a half million tons of petroleum products to the pipeline opened in
1978, and roughly another 1 million tons of transit traffic to Uganda with
the down turn of the Uganda economy during the 1970's and the break-up of
the East African Community in 1978.
B.  Regional Ioportance
2.04     The transport facilities in the Mombasa-Uganda border corridor are
not only the backbone of Kenya's transport system, but are of vital



- 3 -
Importance to the landlocked countries of East Central Africa as well:
Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Southern Sudan and Eastern Zaire. Indeed, in its
early days the rail lina extending west from Mombasa into Uganda as far as
Kasese, close to the Zaire border, was known as the Uganda Railway; and,
until the early 1970's, rail was the prime carrier of traffic to and from
the landlocked countries. Transit traffic exceeded 1.3 million tons in 1971
and accounted for about 40% of the total net ton/km on the Kenya Railway
network. Since then, transit traffic by rail has decreased dramatically,
to an estimated 160,000 tons in 1986, not only in absolute terms, but also
as a percentage of total transit traffic. A combination of factors is
responsible: the collapse of the Uganda economy in the 1970's; the drop in
Uganda Railway's effective capacity; and increasing competition from a
dynamic road transport industry. Since rail is by far the most economical
mode of transport for the bulk commodities, growth in KR's transit traffic
would contribute to the economic development of the inland countries as
well as benefit KR.
2.05     Even if economic stagnation continues, there is considerable
potential for increasing the railway's share of Uganda's present import and
export flows. The proposed project and a transport project under
preparation in Uganda would improve rail capacity.  Further improvements in
the cooperation between the countries associated in the Northern Corridor
Transit Agreement of 1985 would help as well, since present administrative
practices and conditions, despite much improvement, still adversely affect
transit time for international shipments. This agreement was a major
breakthrough for facilitation of international rail and road transport
bet-een the countries of East Central Africa. This would p3covide for the
expeditious movement of traffic, avoidance of unnecessary delays for goods
in transit and simplification of documentation and procedures for the
movement of goods in transit. The Northern Corridor Transit Agreement was
ratified by Kenya, and Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda in 1986. Implementation
of the Agreement's provisions with the respective customs authorities will
remove most of the remaining constraints to efficient transit traffic.  The
first meeting of the newly established Transit Coordination Authority was
held in October 1986. This authority will pursue changes in customs
procedures. Furthermore, in 1985, an agreement between Kenya Railways and
Uganda Railways coverin3 operations was also negotiated and substantial
improvements in integration of the two railway systems have been achieved.
Renewed use of railferries on Lake Victoria has also reduced wagon
turnaround for Ugandan traffic since 1986.
C. Government's Policy in the Transport Sector
2.06     Government's transport policy principles are generally sound.  As
stated in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-1983): (i) transport should be
developed in line with the needs of the productive sectors; (ii) modal
split should be based on the comparative advantage of carriers; and (iii)
this modal split should be achieved through the market mechanism.
Moreover, Government overall economic policy to provide interaction and
competition between tiJe public and private sectors also applies to
transport.
2.07     Yet, as a result of weak implementation of these policies,
transport is not being provided at the lowest possible cost to the Kenyan
economy. In particular, road transport system costs are still too high as
a result of inadequate road maintenance and vehicle overloading.



-4-
Furthermore, intermodal traffic distribution in the main transport corridor
is suboptimal because taxation of road users wss insufficient and
Government interferes with railwaf operations. While the road/rail modal
split should be achieved by permitting the railway to operate as a
financially self-sufficient commercial enterprise and letting the market
guide the shippers' choice of mode, this principle has often been violated
in practice. Government interventions, often done on an ad-hoc basis, have
disrupted normal railway operations, and hampered the railway's marketing
initiative resulting in a shift of traffic from rail to road. This
happened in 1985/86, after the drougnt, when Government required KR to
rspidly transport maize at the expense of serving higher paying customers.
2.08     Government also intervenes in railway tariff setting.  All
increases must be officially approved and Government policies require KR to
carry some commodities at tariffs that do not cover long run variable
costs. Tariffs are purposely kept low on low value commodities such as
fluorspar, molasses, sisal and soda ash so as to increase their export
potential. These interventions lower railway revenues, a consequence that
in turn leads to declines in service and failure to gain valuable traffic.
Some of these policy issues will be addressed in the proposed project (para
5.07) while others are addressed in the Second Highway Sector Project (para
2.20). In line with agreement under that project, Government has regulated
access of heavy trucks to lessen wear and tear costs on the highways, and,
to fund more adequately road maintenance, it has raised road user charges.
The charges now levied imply substantial recovery of costs, but they have
been introduced so recently that reliable revenue estimates have not been
made yet.
D. Kenya Railways Corporation (KR)
2.09     Kenya's railway, constructed between 1896 and 1901, is operated by
the Kenya Railways Corporation (KR), which was formally established by
Government Act in 1978 after the break-up of the East African Railways
Corporation (EARC). Uganda's claim to assets of the dissolved EARC was
settled in 1984 and, in February 1985, the Kenya Cabinet resolved that the
Government would assume these liabilities.
1. Management and Manpower
2.10     KR has a seven member Board of Directors appointed by the
Government. The Managing Director (MD) is the Chief Executive Officer.
KR's organizational structure is horizontal in nature with seven department
heads reporting directly to the MD (Annex 2.1). The set-up gives a wide
span of control to the ED, who although now assisted by a Deputy Managing
Director, is liable to get bogged down in day-to-day details, leaving him
little time to develop general policies and manage KR's relationship with
Government. Partly as a result of this, corporate and investment planning
activities have been inadequate. Moreover, there is no clear position
responsible for example, to reconcile train operating decisions with
customer needs or to determine and enforce needed budget revisions as
financial results warrant. KR also lacks a marketing or business
development focus, a fairly common omission in the days prior to the
development of road transport, but a function that is vital to any hope of
competing more effectively with the trucking industry. For example,
accidents that harm operating perforsmance are reportedly high, yet KR has
inadequately developed practices for accident investigation, feedback and



-5-
prevention. The proposed project provides assistance and an action plan to
help KR remedy its organizational and management problems (paras 3.06 -
3.08).
2.11     KR's staff totalled 23,235 as of July 1986.  Equivalent to 106,000
traffic units per employee in 1985186, labor productivity has fallen
steadily from 139,000 in 1980, yet the railway has failed to adjust its
work force to declining traffic levels. About 2,000 staff positions are
expected to be eliminated through attrition by 1991 (para 5.09). The scope
for further productivity gains beyond the project period will be
established once KR has determined the levels of staff necessary to its
future operations.
2.12      At present, training of all staff is conducted at the Railway
Training School (RTS) a multi-building residential facility located on 55
acres in Nairobi. Opened in June 1956, KR's Training School was originally
built to train EARC staff; at present it is used primarily for KR although
there are currently some 100 students from other African countries in
attendance. The school has the makings of a regional training institute.
The school's primary focus is the teaching of skilled railroadi trades to
young graduates over 3-4 year periods. Short management courses are held
in one wing of the campus, but facilities and curricula are limited (Annex
2.2).
2.13     The quality of training, classrooms and equipment is generally
good, but some physical improvements are needed, including the renewal of
some buildings, the provision of better classrooms for some of the
mechanical engineering sections and the replacement of old equipment. In
addition, the management training center needs to expand its curriculum and
number of trainees, upgrade its dormitory facilities and build a more
appropriate library and assembly area. The skilled labor training now
being given is quite good but a study of RTS concluded that some of the
general courses are too long and do not include enough practical on-the-job
experience. The managerial training suffers from outdated books and
equipment and the center itself has a meager library and no real assembly
area of its own. Also, there is a general need for KR to better match
training with staff needs and operational requirements. The proposed
project provides assistance for curriculum development, manpower planning
and management of training as well as for the expansion and upgrading of
facilities at the RTS (para 3.09).
2. Property
2.14     KR operates a single line meter gauge railway.  The main line is
1,085 km long and runs via Nairobi from the port of Mombasa to Malaba
on the Ugandan border. The most Important of seven branch lines connects
Kisumu on Lake Victoria to Nakuru on the main line. Rail is 90 lb/yard
between Mombasa and Nairobi and 75 lblyard elsewhere on the main line.
Track is between 16-50 years old except on curves which are renewed
continuously due to heavy wear.  Track renewal, initiated in the First
Railway Project, has been delayed due to delivery problems of rail welding
equipment. Lack of ballast wagons has also slowed progress.
2.15     KR's fleet consists of 194 diesel and diesel hydraulic locomotives
of various horsepowers and types of manufacture over its entire system. Of
these 76 are main line locomotives (Annex 2.?). A Motive Power Study (one



of five studies financed by ODA, para. 3.01) evaluated KR's fleet against
its motive power requirements and concluded that KR was short of
locomotives. This has been aggravated by low availability for the entire
fleet and operational demands have exerted mounting pressures leading to
excessive use of its most reliable units, the Class 93s, by skipping or
curtailing maintenance. Availability of main line locomotives has thus
declined from 63.6Z in 1978 to 55.2% in 1985, while hours of use per day of
available locomotives has increased from 15 in 1980 to over 17 in 1986.
These motive power problems have reached a point where lack of available
motive power is a significant constraint on KR's effective capacity. Ten
additional locomotives have been ordered in 1986. Lack of spares,
incomplete maintenance, age and the number of different locomotive classes
have also contributed to the lower availability rates. Assistance to help
solve locomotive maintenance problems is a major focus of the proposed
project, since p rchase of new locomotives is only part of the solution of
the problem of lack of locomotives and maintenance has still to be
organised on a sound basis.
3. Performance
2.16     A wide range of operational indicators measure KR's performance in
quantitative terms (Annex 2.4). These indicators highlight the key role of
locomotive availability and its decline. On the whole, falling locomotive
availability and reliability have adversely affected operating performance.
While there is scope for improvements in the skills and techniques of
operational handling of yard marshalling, train formation and crew
ordering, en route monitoring and controlling, better availability and a
reduced frequency of failures of locomotives is a main key to the
efficiency of operations and reliability of service. Wagon turnaround time
is high: 13 days for tank wagons and 16 days for general freight wagons.
In addition to the inadequate supply of motive power, poor operating
practices also contribute to the inefficient utilization of wagons.
Petroleum products are moved in groups of four to six wagons rather than by
block trains. Wagons are detained four to six days on average in yard and
terminal handling. Quick transit and turnaround of wagons is critical to
the transport of containers, a lucrative and fast growing area of bulk
transport in the region. A major focus of the proposed project is to
improve KR's operational efficiency through achieving specific targets in
key areas of operations (para 3.17).
2.17     Freight traffic dropped at an average annual rate of 5.2% between
1980 and 1986 while ton-km's dropped by less, 4.1Z, reflecting an increase
in average length of haul over the same period. This traffic decline
reflected stringent import controls by Government, low economic activity, a
drop in transit and oil traffic during the early 1980s. However, even with
more recent improvements in the economy and transit traffic, railway
freight did not rise, providing further evidence that KR was losing traffic
to trucking. During 1984-86, rail traffic of petroleum products, soda ash,
and other bulk freight did not change, while there was a decline in cement,
fertilizer and sugar. General goods traffic dropped by about 6%. fR's
operational inefficiencies and low availability of main line motive power
were the main causes of traffic declines. Annex 2.5 reviews railway's
traffic in detail.
2.18     KR's earnings have been positive only once since its formation in
1978; 1984's net income was KSh 108 million.   The turnaround was short-
lived. Results for 1986 show a net loss of $Sh 148 million. The



7-
underlying causes of KR's recent earnings deterioration are declines in
traffic and in real tariffs coupled with high fixed costs. The erosion in
KR's earning power has adversely affected its financial condition and put
pressure on liquidity. Unless KR promptly carries out its Action Plan
(para 5.05), its financial condition would further deteriorate, and the
severity of the remedial measures required to correct deficiencies would
increase considerably. Chapter V contains a financial evaluation of KR,
with details in Annex 2.6.1 - 2.6.10.
E. Bank's Group Role
2.19     Though transport performance has been satisfactory to users in the
past, there is considerable scope for further improvements in the two broad
areas of reductions in road transport system costs and a more appropriate
modal split (para 2.07). More flexible and responsive transport service
would also raise rates of return on individual investments and benefit the
economy in general. Bank transport projects are designed with these
objectives in mind. The Bank group has made a number of loans and credits
for the transport sector, moaLly 'fuv the East African Coimmnity. Since the
break-up of the conmmunity, three operations only to Kenya have been made
namely the First Highway Sector Project (Loan 1694-KE) for US$90.0 million
in 1979, First Railway Project (Loan 1976-KE) for US$58.0 million in 1981,
and the Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2409-KRE and SF17-KE) in 1984
for a total of US$90.0 million equivalent.
2.20     The Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2409-KE, SF17-KE) was
designed to help Government improve implementation of its policies in those
areas where most important cost reductions can be achieved. Under that
Project, Government has made commitments to tackle the questions of vehicle
axle load control and inadequate road user charges. The objective is to
increase road user charges on heavy vehicles so as to permit recovery of
road wear and tear costs for each class of road transport. These measures
should also help the railway to the extent that increases in road cost or
charges will contribute to a more economic modal choice between road and
rail. An important beginning has been made by new toll collection on
certain main highways. Improved axle-weight control is also reducing
overloading of heavy vehicles. Project implementation is about 2 years
behind schedule and funding for road maintenance has been inadequate. An
active dialogue with the Government is underway to resolve these issues
(para 2.08).
2.21     The First Railways Project (Loan 1976-KE) sought to make the
transport sector more cost effective by increasing KR's effective capacity
and by helping in the preparation of corrective measures to address the
fundamental problems in KR's managerial structure and operating
performance. The studies undertaken in the First Railway Project confirmed
that the comparative cost advantage of the railways cannot be fully
exploited unless: (i) the policy framework within which the railway
operates is significantly improved; and (ii) the railway itself becomes
more commercially oriented. The proposed project arose from these studies
and focuses on meeting these needs. It is, therefore, in line with the
Bank's country strategy which is to use project and non-project lending to
induce Government to adopt and implement policy reforms that will lead to
needed structural adjustment within the economy.



-8-
2.22     The Bank loan of US$58.0 million for the First Railways Project
loan was closed on December 31, 1985, and the undisbursed balance of US$
9.3 million was cancelled. A Project Completion Report is under
preparation. The draft PCR indicates mixed performance in implementing the
project. Total expenditure was less than foreseen mainly due to a
shortfall of local funds. As a result, track relaying works were not
completed. Provision of rolling stock and spare parts was successful.
There were several reasons why the Government and the Bank decided not ro
extend the closing date of the loan. The technical assistance component of
the project was financed by ODA on a grant basis, more attractive to the
Government than loan funds. The scope of the project was reduced to
reflect changes in KR's pattern and levels of traffic. Furthermore,
bilateral assistance from several sources was provided for improvements to
the locomotive fleet. Finally, it had become clear that lasting
improvements in railway performance required a reshaping of the
relationship between the Government and KR, and of KR itself, which was
well beyond the scope of the First Railways Project.



III. THE PROJECT
A. Identification and Preparation
3.01     The proposed project was identified during a Bank mission which
visited Kenya in October 1984. The mission wa to review KR's preparation
of a full scale conventional railway investment project but, after
discussions with senior officials of Treasury and MOTC, it concluded that
appraisal of such a project was premature. The studies carried out under
the first project with ODA financing had emphasized the widening gap
between KR and its changing market environment and the need for KR to
undertake major structural changes to compete commercially.
3.02     The recauwendations of the studies were reviewed by a Bank mission
which visited Kenya in February 1985. The Government asked for ODA and
Bank assistance to support a suitable program of short to medium term
measures to implement those recommendations. With the assistance of
consultants, KR prepared such a program and submitted it to ODA and to the
Bank which sent a joint mission to Kenya to appraise it in JunelJuly 1985.
The Government, however, after an initial favorable reaction to the project
proposal, awaited KR to prepare a detailed Corporate Plan before approving
any new borrowings by KR (see para 3.05). ODA and the Bank reviewed the
draft Corporate Plan in December 1986 and agreed on a revised version of it
whose essential features are contained in a paper approved by the Kenya
Cabinet on March 2, 1987, and form the basis of the proposed project.
B. Objectives and Description
3.03     The proposed project would support Government efforts to lower
transportation costs by promoting efficiency in the railway system. It
would help KR realize its economic role as a carrier of long distanice and
bulk cargo and main carrier of traffic for the landlocked countries.
Project components are described below.
1. Institutional Development
(a) External Framework
3.04     As a parastatal organization, KR's institutional development is
fundamentally intertwined with Government's general policy framework. As
described earlier, Government transport policies are sound but at times
weak in application. Stricter adherence to some of the stated policies
would certainly enhance KR's financial recovery, such as vehicle weight
control. On the other hand Government has been quite supportive of KR,
assuming many of its liabilities and financing its investments. As
described in detail in Annex 3.1, however, it is expected that more long
lasting support, in the direction of developing real autonomy from the
Government will be an outcome of the project as well. Indeed, the Action
Plan developed by KR during project preparation began the process of
preparing a Corporate Plan.
3.05     The Corporate Plan for KR was reviewed by Bank staff and found
satisfactory. The primary objective of the Corporate Plan is for KR to
provide a network of rail freight and passenger transport services to meet
present and future needs of its customers. Another objective for KR is to



- 10 -
operate commercially to earn sufficient revenue from its services to cover
its operating costs, to earn a return on its assets and to provide funds
for investment. Such operation of KR requires services to match customer
needs, railway tariffs to reflect market conditions and the KR cost
structure and operations so that services are provided efficiently and
cost-effectively. KR recognizes that Government may require part of the
network and some services retained which cannot be commercially operated,
but that Government provide specific financial compensation for any non-
commercial services. In order to meet these objectives the Corporate Plan
developed a number of measures in areas such as marketing strategy,
operating performance, investment and financial performance. Government's
commitment to change is an essential condition of Bank suipport for the
project. KR and Government v11 review annually with the Bank performance
against expectations (Annex 3.4 and pars 3.17).
(b) Organizational Structure
3.06     The project includes provision of technical assistance to
facilitate changes in organizational structure at the corporate level and
changes in general managerial systems and procedures. In total about 740
staffmonths will be provided, by in-line positions, through advisers and
studies and in case of the training school collaboration with another
similar institution (twinning) (See Annex 3.5). The proposed
organizational changes, outlined below, are designed to reorient
anagement toward more commercial practices in as integrated a way as
possible, following steps outlined by KR from recommendations made in the
ODA-financed studies. The Government monitors foreign technical assistance
in Knsya to ensure that it is cost effective and indispensable. The Kenya
Cabinet has approved all technical assistance positions proposed under this
Project.
(c) Corporate Management
3.07     Two new posts have been added between the MD and departmental head
level to ease the MD's work load, make the organization less horizontal,
and to better coordinate marketing, financing and operating activities.
These include (after the position of a Program Coordinator reporting to the
MD has already been filled), an Assistant General Manager for Finance,
Supplies, and Information, and an Operations and Planning Advisor. Two new
functions have also been added to provide KR with a more commercial outlook
and to help reduce the incidence of serious accidents: a Head of Business
Development and a Chief Accidents Inspector. As part of project
preparation, a corporate planning team as organized to help develop a long
term corporate plan, and a GovernmentBKR company contract. Additionally,
the project includes a management information advisor and studies to assess
the degree to which KR's ancillary services, including catering, suburban
train service, and road services, may be uneconomic. Further details are
provided in Annex 3.2.
(d) Operational Management
3.08     The project will also reorient management and introduce modern
managerial skills at the divisional and operational level. A number of
consultant teams or specialists will be recruited to help in areas of
finance, supplies, management information, data processing and accounting
as described in Annex 3.2   These experts will work with KR management to:



- 11 -
improve operations; increase management effectiveness; tighten financial
controls; develop management information systems that give maragement more
timely and more pertinent operating and financial feedback; establish
traffic costing information; improve data processing; and ;mprove
management of spare parts and, above all, the maintenance of locomotives.
(e) Human Resources
3.09     KR's labor force is not as productive as it should be nor are some
staff employed in jobs that will maximize efficiency (para 5.09). To
address these needs and to ensure that new skills and efforts made to
reorient management are long lasting and filter throughout the
organization, the project includes the provision of technical assistance
for personnel management, job-evaluation procedures, manpower planning,
management of training activities and curricula revision. Capital
investments at the Railways Training Center include: (i) expansion of
existing facilities at the Management Training Center; (ii) construction of
a training facilities center; (iii) rehabilitation of some existing
workshops and classrooms; (iv) upgrading dormitories for artisans and
construction of additional staff accoumodations; and (v) purchase of new
teaching equipment. Details are shown in Annex 3.2.
2. Motive Power
(a) Locomotive Availability Increase
3.10     The proposed project includes the rehabilitation of five class 87,
ten class 71 and 72 to improve locomotive availability. The Motive Power
Study also recommended the purchase of ten additional 93 class locomotives.
In early 1986, KR received Government clearance for their purchase;
delivery is expected to take place during 1987. Annex 3.3 shows the
projected utilization and maintenance schedule for the locomotive fleet.
KR's lack of motive power stems in large measure from insufficient spares.
Since KR has limited access to external funding to purchase spares, the
project provides three years of spares for the locomotive fleet to
complement assistance currently being orovided by CIDA and KfW. This
provision is expected to eliminate the sending of locomotives back into
service with maintenance incomplete, reduce maintenance time, and improve
locomotive availability. The provision of locomotive spares is intended as
a measure :o facilitate the process of restructuring of the railway.
Agreement was reached with Government that it will facilitate prompt
procurement by KR of spare parts and equipment.
(b) Workshop Restructuring
3.11     Incomplete or omitted regular maintenance, and delays and
inefficiency in the workshops are a further cause of insufficient motive
power. The project includes restructuring of layout and work flow at KR's
central workshop in Nairobi, as well as the improvement and refurbishing of
diesel depots at Changanme, Nairobi, and Kisumu. Test stands and
dynamometers will also be acquired. Technical assistance and training will
be provided to help the Mechanical and Engineering Department improve work
flows, overcome technological difficulties, take inventory and manage the
use of spares more effectively. These measures will also improve
locomotive availability by relieving congestion, augmenting workshop space
for overhauls, and reducing overhaul and repair time.



- 12 -
3. Operational Improvements
(a) Traffic Manazeuent
3.12     Some of KR's difficutlties stem from inefficient train operations
rather than motive power constraints per se. Generally speaking, train
operations need to be better coordinated with the Traffic Department and
with business development and marketing efforts. The project's
organizational changes establish a new Assistant Managing Director for
Operations to help provide this coordination. The project also includes
technical assistance to the Traffic Department itself to improve train
planning and control, lower running times and make train operations more
market-oriented. New tallow wagons are also included in the project to
meet market demand.
(b) Permanent Way Efficiency
3.13     Additionally, there are several critical operational bottlenecks
that could be corrected with relatively little capital investment and that
are included in the project. These include the construction of 'running
roomss at Mtito Andei to improve train crew productivity, the provision of
fueling facilities at Mombasa, Kipevu and Voi, new ground fuel storage
tanks at Nakuru and Eldoret, and sand drying facilities at Kajiado, Sagana
and Eldoret depots to improve locomotive turnaround, and the replacement of
old compressors of air brake testing equipment to reeace time spent testing
wagon brakes. Operations are also being impeded by slower than necessary
track maintenance. The project thus includes acquisition of ballast wagons
and end loaders to reduce time spent delaying trains while ballast is
unloaded by hand as well as purchase of a mobile butt welder so that the
rail renewal program initiated under the First Railway Project can be
completed. In the telecommunications and signalling departments, provision
is made for the purchase of UHF radios for shunting locomotives and two
telephone exchanges, and for technical assistance to help improve overall
management and to develop maintenance skills. The project also includes
two studies related to permanent way facilities: (a) a study of the extent
and means of strengthening the viaducts on the Nakuru-Kisumu line for
higher axle loads; (b) a study of the costs/benefits and alternative means
of accomplishing improvements to the signalling in the Nairobi-Embakasi
Complex and to the telecommunication links between Nairobi-Malaba/Nakuru-
Kisumu. Details are provided in Annex 3.2.
C. Prolect Cost and Financing Plan
3.14     The total project cost is estimated at KSh 751 million (US$45.5
million) including contingencies.  The foreign exchange cost is estimated
at KSh 614 million (US$37.2 million), or about 82% of total project cost.
The project will be exempt from taxes and duties. Cost estimates were
prepared by engineering consultants financed by the UK, reviewed by the
appraisal mission and revised as appropriate to reflect known costs for
similar items. Bas-' costs were estimated in end-1986 pr .ces. Foreign and
local price contingencies are based on estimated annual cost increases of
7.52 in 1987, 1.0 annually in 1988-90 and 3.5S thereafter. Physical
contingencies of 10.OZ on local and foreign exchange costs have been added
to base costs. Total contingencies, US$8.9 million equivalent, represent
about 20% of total project cost. The cost estimates are presented in Annex
3.5.



- 13 -
3.15     The proposed IDA Credit of US$28.0 million equivalent will finance
62% of total project expenditures (US$45.5 million); ODA, 29Z, (US$13.3
million); and KR, 9%, (US$4.2 million). Retroactive financing for urgently
needed technical assistance will be provided not to exceed US$500,000. The
financing plan is presented in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex
3.7. Cross ef'ectiveness and cross default clauses with the ODA grant
agreement have been agreed.
3.16     Except for expenditures for technical assistance which would be
passed through to KR on IDA terms, the Government would onlend the proceeds
of the IDA credit to KR at a rate 10% higher than the Bank rate; KR would
bear the foreign exchange risk. A grace period of four years and a final
maturity of 20 years would apply to loan repayment. A subsidiary loan
agreement incorporating the above terms and acceptable to IDA would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. As explained above (para 2.18), KR's
weakening financial condition limits its ability to undertake any
investments beyond what is already included in the proposed project, whicis
has been assessed as the minimum cost effective program required to achieve
KR's recovery. Assurances were provided at negotiations that KR will not
undertake any investment in excess of US$50u,000 without receiving the
Government's and IDA's prior approval. Furthermore, the Government has
agreed to review and discuss any proposed future investments affecting the
railway subsector with IDA.
D. Implementation
3.17     KR will implement the project which is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1994. The Credit closing date would be June 30, 1995. With
the support provided by the institutional development component of the
proposed project, KR has the capacity to carry out this project. The
institutional development component includes provisions for supervising,
coordinating end monitoring KR's utilization of technical assistance under
the project. A critical aspect of the upgrading of KR's management systems
is the need to monitor through selected performance indicators, its service
quality, financial situation, operating efficiency and program
implementation, and to take appropriate corrective actions in a timely
manner. These performance indicators, are contained in KR's Corporate Plan
(para 3.05). KR's Performance Objectives are set out in Annex 3.4 and
cover the railways' key areas of operations froi equipment availability to
staff productivity and are considered reasonable with the assistance
proposed under the project; the Project Implementation Schedule is in Annex
3.6. All were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.



- 14 -
E. Procurement
3.18     The following procurement arrangements would apply with the
figures in parentheses showing amounts to be financed by IDA:
Table 3.1 - Procurement Method
Project Item                             Procurement Method      Total
ICB      LCB    Other   Cost
-------(million US$'s)-------
a) Civil Works
Fueling, Sanding, and                0.0      0.9     0.0      0.9
Running Rooms                              (0.5)            (0.5)
Workshops                            2.1      0.0     0.0      2.1
(1.7)                    (1.7)
Training School                       1.2                      1.2
r.5)                    (.5)
3.3     0.9              4.2
(2.2)   (0.5)            (2.7)
b) Equipment
Locomotive spares                    11.0     0.0     5.0    16.0
(11.0)           (4.6)11 15.6)
Locomotive Rehabilitation            0.0      0.0     4.7      4.7
Wagons                               0.0      0.0     5.1      5.1
Welder                                1.5     0.0     0.0      1.5
(1.2)                    (1.2)
Radio-telephones                     0.0      0.0     0.5      0.5
Workshops                             1.6     0.0     0.0      1.6
(1.4)                    (1.4)
Training                             1.4      0.0     0.0      1.4
(1.3)                    (1.3)
15.5     0.0    15.3    30.8
(14.9)           (4.6)  (19.5)
c)  Consultants' Services                 0.0     0.0    10.5    10.5
___, _   (5.8)2/ (5.8)
Total               18.8     0.9    25.8    45.5
(17.1)   (0.5)  (10.4)  (28.0)
NOTEz
1T/Proprietary spare parts (para 3.19).
/Z  Consultants services will be provided in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.



- 15 -
3.19     Contracts for civil works, non proprietary spare parts and
equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's guidelines for procurement, except
the construction of fueling and sand-drying facilities and runnidng rooms
for train crews (US$900,000) which will be awarded following local
competitive bidding procedures because the small size and nature of t'iese
contracts is not likely to attract international contractors. These
procedures will be reviewed to ensure conformity with the IDA guidelines
for procurement. The consultants for technical assistance will be employed
in accordance with the IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Proprietary spare parts which are only available from the original
manufacturers or authorized suppliers (the total aggregate not exceeding
US$5.0 million) would be procured on the basis of negotiated contracts on
terms satisfactory to the Bank. Items will be grouped to the extent
practicable to permit bulk procurement. Contracts and tender documents for
civil works, spare parts and equipment, valued over US$50,000, will be
submitted to IDA for prior review.
F. Disbursements
3.20     The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign and 80Z of local expenditures for consulting
and specialist services;
(b) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for imported
equipment, spare parts and materials; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for
civil works.
3.21     All disbursements would be fully documented.  The Bank standard
disbursement profile has been applied. The implementation period for this
project is estimated at 8 years, based on past experience with similar
projects as reflected in the relevant standard profile. It is, however,
possible that if the project is implemented more efficiently and with fewer
delays, the implementation period could be reduced to 5 years.
G. Reports and Audits
3.22     KR would maintain records adequate to monitor project
implementation and would submit quarterly progress reports in a format
agreed with IDA. KR will maintain separate accounts for all expenditures
incurred under the project. The records would be maintained to reflect, in
accordance with appropriate accounting practices, its operations and
financial status. An annual audit would be required for all expenditures
financed under the project according to generally accepted accounting
procedures and would be carried out by Auditor General (Corporation) an
independent auditor satisfactory to IDA. Audit reports, including those of
KR as a whole, would be submitted to IDA within seven months following the
end of each of the Borrower's fiscal year (para 6.01). Not later than nine
months after the Credit closing date, the Borrower would provide IDA with a
completion report evaluating the initial operations, the execution, costs
and benefits of the project, the performance of the Borrower and IDA, and
lessons learned.



- 16 -
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01     The proposed project is expected to benefit Kenya and its railway
significantly. The main quantified economic benefit expected to derive
from the project are savings in transportation costs. Without the Project,
it is estimated that freight traffic carried by rail would gradually drop
to about 1.7 billion net ton-km annually in the 1990's from about 1.86
billion in 1985. With the Project, the potential traffic loss would be
prevented and the railway would be able to recapture part of the long
distance and transit traffic currently being lost to road competition.
Moreover, operations improvements with the Project would enable the railway
to carry, at progressively lower unit costs than without the Project, about
2.3 billion net ton-km of freight by 1993. The average saving of rail over
road for this traffic has been calculated at about KSh 0.38Jnet ton-km.
The overall economic rate of return of the project would thus be 20%.
Details of this analysis are given in Annexes 4.1 - 4.4.
4.02     Future traffic on KR will be determined by many factors which can
be grouped into those that are external to KR (GDP growth, foreign trade,
Government policy with respect to road transport) and those that are
internal (availability of appropriate capacity, operational efficiency,
marketing efforts). The external factors would generally favor rapid
growth in transport demand and improvement in the railway's share in total
traffic. GDP is projected to grow within a range of 3.5 - 5.0X in the
medium term and Government is redirecting its policies towards fast export
growth. Moreover, Government's transport policies are aimed at creating
the conditions for the railway to play its proper role in long distance
transport through road user charges which reflect the costs of road usage
and continuation of the program to enforce vehicle axle weight limits.
4.03     Given a favorable external environment and the fact that there is
considerable potential demand (evidenced by a declining share of rail
transport despite significantly lower rail tariffs), the critical factors
determining future rail traffic are internal to KR. The traffic growth
assumptions for the economic evaluation (annex 4.1) of the project as a
whole are based on a combination of improved performance (higher
availability of locomotives and streamlined operations) made possible
through the project and as a result of the acquisition of additional class
93 locomotives. As a result, in the "with the project" case traffic would
grow from 1.86 billion ton km in 1985 to 2.17 billion ton km in 1990191, or
more conservatively than by either the Motive Power Study or the Corporate
Plan assessments. With the new class 93 locomotives, but without the
proposed project, the capacity in 1990191 would be about the same as in
1985 and continue to decline (see Annex 4.4 for details). Without the
project, and the class 93 locomotives, it is assumed that effective
capacity will continue to decline principally as a result of deteriorating
locomotive availability. Traffic would decline at the same rate as between
1980 and 1985 or about 4% p.a. reaching 1.45 billion ton km in 1990191.
4.04     The institutional development benefits of this project, though
unquantified, are also expected to be substantial. The proposed project
aims to bring about a major change In the relationship between the
Government and KR. By introducing the concept of a contractual arrangement



- 17 -
(para 3.04) between the owner and the operator, it is expected that both
Government officials and railway managers will gain a better appreciation
of mutual needs and expectations within the framework of concrete
quantified objectives which would lead to improved performance planning.
4.05     The financial aspects of the Government/KR relationship will be
the priority focus of the process described above. The main project
objective in this area is for KR to attain financial self-sufficiency; the
corresponding benefit for the Government will be a more rational allocation
of resources and the recovery of the cost of rail service from the users
rather than from the taxpayers.
B. Risks
4.06     Because the project goals are ambitious, the associated risks are
relatively high, though worth taking. The process of transformation of KR
into a commercial enterprise, which this project seeks to initiate, is
based on two essential premises: (i) a strong Government commitment; and
(ii) an effective transfer of technology. The main project risk is that
either premise fails to materialize, to the extent expected.
4.07     The risk of ineffective use of the substantial technical
assistance to be provided to KR as part of this project is of a specific as
well as general nature (para 3.06).  Since the break-up of EARC in the mid-
1970s, KR has successfully Africanized virtually all key management
positions. There appears to be some concern among the o'der KR's middle
maaagers that the proposed program would mean "going back". If these
perceptions were to be confirmed, the technical specialists might not get
the cooperation required for the success of the project.
4.08     Several factors mitigate this risk:  (i) the project provision of
a team to help KR's Managing Director supervise and monitor all technical
specialists employed under the project; (ii) IDA's direct involvement in
the financing of technical assistance posts (the requirement that terms of
reference and qualifications of all candidates be satisfactory to IDA) and
(iii) the limited duration of employment of key specialists in line
positions, or at the technical advisors to the Kenyan counterparts. In
addition to the need for a continued intensive dialogue between IDA staff
and Government officials, these features also require that higher than
average manpower be allocated to project supervision.
C. Sensitivity Analysis
4.10     The sensitivity of the project economic rate of return to the
implementation risks discussed above has also been analyzed in quantitative
terms. If KR did not improve its performance as expected, it would not be
able to carry the projected traffic volume, and projected savings to the
economy from utilization of a lower cost mode would be lower then
anticipated. This analysis shows that even if benefits were 20% lower than
projected, or costs 10 higher and benefits 0OZ lower, the economic rate of
return would still be satisfactory at 16%. Details of the sensitivity
analysis are given in Annex 4.5.  The first year return at an assumed
opportunity cost of capital of 12% is 18%.



- 18 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Past Performance
5.01     Kenya Railways's (KR) Income Stat_ments for 1980-86 are shown in
Annex 2.6.1; Balance Sheets, in Annex 2.6.2; Funds Statements in Annex
2.6.3; and Ratio Analysis in Annex 2.6.4. KR's Financial Statements for
1980-84 were spread from audited Anumal Reports; the fiscal year was the
calendar year. In 1985, Government required all parastatals to conforn
their financial reporting to Government's fiscal year - July 1st to June
30th - ; therefore, the 1986 Income and Funds Statements cover a period of
eighteen months through June 30, 1986. Table 5.1 below, shows KR's
Financial Highlights.
Table 5.1: KR's Financial HizhliRhts
1981      1982      1983      1984   1985/86
(million KSh's)
Revenues                  881        953     1,101     1,246      1,742
Net Income               (126)      (189)      (25)      108       (148)
Net Fixed Assets        1,728      1,683     1,750     1,736     2,076
Long Term Debt            895        902       381       893      1,318
Equity Capital            539       366      1,211     1,152     1,068
Traffic (million units) 3,019     2,869      2,823     2,514     2,464
Revenue/Employee           39         41        49        56        50
(million KSh's)
Traffic/Employee          133        125       127       113        106
(million units)
Working Ratio              88Z        961       83Z       782        921
Receivables (days)         97        94        102        94        122
Inventory (days)          132        156       193       315       339
5.02    The above table shows that KR's operating performance was sluggish
throughout the period under review; profitability improvements in 1983 and
in 1984 (the only year KR reported a profit) resulted from steep tariff
increases, but were short-lived as KR again turned out a loss in fiscal
1986 because of rising personnel costs and stagnating traffic. In fact, in
fiscal 1986, KR had a drop of just under 10% in valuable freight traffic
from 2,034 million net-tonlkm to 1,859 on an annual basis, while it
recaptured 251 of the 1984 passenger traffic by cutting rates which were
already well below cost.
5.03    Th Iq erosion in KR's earning power has adversely affected its
financial condition, squeezed liquidity, and eroded its capital base. In
1983, to ease pressure on KR's cash flow from the servicing requirements of
debt which had reached over 70% of KR's capital structure, Government
converted to equity and practically condoned over KSh 500 million of KR's
long term debt. Despite the assumption by the National Treasury in 1985 of
a liability to Uganda of US$72 million resulting from the settlement of the



- 19 -
dissolution of EARC and the favorable - to KR - resolution of long standing
tax disputes with local and central authorities, KR's Debt/Equity ratio has
crept back up to 55%.
5.04    KR's bigh current ratio is misleading because it reflects mostly a
growing inventory of spare parts which does not fully meet the railway's
needs and includes oboolete spares. The relatively low level of current
liabilities is more a reflection of tight credit from concerned suppliers
than prompt payments by KR. In fact the growi-ag debt service burden on
KR's weak cash flow has put it on the brink of insolvency and forced it to
pass the overdraft limit at its commercial bank.
B. KR's Action Plan
5.05     At appraisal in June 1985, ODA and IDA staff agreed with KR an
Action Plan consisting of organization restructuring, technical assistance
and essential urgent capital investments. The Action Plan was developed at
the beginning of a serious financial crisis brought about by falling
traffic, rising costs and an increasing burden of debt service. KR's
Action Plan objectives are to: (i) win and retain new customers; (ii)
improve operating performance; and (iii) become financially self -
sufficient. The Government broadly endorsed the Action Plan's objectives
and requested KR to prepare a Corporate Plan to propose a marketing
strategy, set specific targets, and make a commitment to improve
performance. An early draft of Rl's Corporate Plan was reviewed by ODA and
Bank staff in July 1986. In December 1986, ODA and the Bank reviewed and
approved the final draft which was submitted to the Railway's Monitoring
Group (RMG), an ad hoc Government interministerial committee which cleared
the Plan before a Paper based upon it was submitted to Cabinet. On March
2, 1987, the Kenya Cabinet approved the Cabinet Paper.
5.06     The Corporate Plan aims to improve the relationship between
Government and KR by clearly defining each party's responsibilities to the
other. Because of KR's importance to Kenya's transport industry, the
social implications of some of its services, and its status as a major
parastatal, KR turnaround ane. recovery can only be achieved with full
agreement and support of Government. Mutual expectations and obligations
of the two parties have been slimmarized in a performance contract which
will serve to monitor implementation of the Corporate Plan.
5.07     A Policy Statement discussed and agreed with the RMG sets out the
overall goal of operating KR as a commercial entity. By the end of the
Plan period, KR will operate all its freight services on a commercial
basis. In order to do this, KR needs to: (i) increase the volume of
freight carried through operational improvements; (ii) have freedom of
pricing to reflect costs and respond to competition; and (iii) concentrate
on those services that have the highest yield and withdraw from those where
road transporters have a competitive advantage.
5.08     Third class passenger fares will increase in line with inflation;
second class fares will increase moderately in real terms; and first class
fares will be set at full cost recovery levels.  Government will compensate
KR for operating second and third class passenger service below cost. Five
of KR's branch lines are uneconomic. The Konza - Magadi line, which
carries soda ash, incurs large losses (KSh 25 million in 1985). Government
has agreed to compensate KR for losses incurred while tariffs are gradually



- 20 -
increased. If the customer will not accept the tariff increases required
during the Plan period to make the line viable, the line will be closed.
The Solai - Rongai line is used seasonally; investment and operating costs
will be kept to a miniTum and the situation will be reviewed during the
Plan period. The cost of operating the other uneconomic lines after
allowing for passenger fare compensation, is about KSh 100,000 (US$6,000).
5.09     KR is overstaffed.  In recent years, staff has increased while
traffic has declined. Because of the skills gap that KR's organization
study has found, however, a hiring freeze would conflict with the need to
recruit new staff with the required skills. KR would therefore reduce its
staff to about half the natural attrition rate which will permit it to do
some new recruitment to upgrade its skill level. Target staff levels are
shown in Annex 3.4 and they were included in the Performance Objectives
agreed at negotiations (para 3.17). During project implementation, KR will
continue to seek ways to better this target through early retirement
schemes and retraining programs, assisted by the technical assistance under
the project for manpower planning.
C. KR's Financial Prolections
5.10     The major assumption used for projecting the financial statements
of KR is the implementation of the Corporate Plan. The Plan targets,
however, were revised, when appropriate, to a realistic ambitious level
consistent with KR reaching financial self-sufficiency at the end of the
project period. In particular, it was assumed that KR's freight traffic
will remain constant in 1987, grow by 2% p.a. in 1988 and 1989; 4% p.a. in
1990 and 1991; and 5% p.a. in 1992 and 1993. Thus, while the Corporate
Plan shows a target freight traffic in 1991 of 2.6 billion net-tonlkm,
these projections show 2.3 billion by 1993.
5.11     In addition to the tariff increase approved by Government in
September 1986, it was assumed that KR9s tariffs would further increase in
real terms for selectrd commodities and services throughout the project
period to correct imbj'a nces in KR's current pricing structure. Tariffs
will also be adiusted periodically to absorb the impact of cost inflation.
The Government end KiR will review annually with IDA any losses incurred by
KR in operation of non-commercially viable services and the Government
would make necessary compensation payments to KR. Traffic projections for
freight and passengers are presented in Annexes 2.6.5 - 6, as is the
projected rate of inflation which is the same as that used for estimating
price contingencies on project costs (para 3.14).
5.12     The capital investment r ogram proposed in the Corporate Plan was
reduced: non-essential investments as well as a sizable signalling and
telecommunications investment west of Nairobi were deferred pending more
detailed economic assessment. Project investments were added to KR's
assets. New and existing fixed assets were revalued each year and the
added value credited to equity capital. Beyond the project period, it was
assumed that capital investments will equal depreciation. Debt drawdown,
amortization, interest and fees reflect the project Financing Plan (Annex
3.7) and proposed onlending terms (para 3.16). Details are shown in
Annexes 2.6.5 - 6.



- 21 -
5.13     KR's pro-forma Income Statements for 1987-96 are set out in Annex
2.6.7; Balance Sheets in Annex 2.6.8; Funds Statements in Annex 2.6.9; and
Ratio Analysis in Annex 2.6.10. Table 5.2 below, shows a summary of KR's
financial projections.
Table 5.2: KR's Summary Financial Projections
1987      1988      1989       1990      1991
-----------------projected---------------
(million KSh's)
Revenues                 ',347     1,489      1,553     1,646      1,765
Working Expenses         1,149     1,167      1,173     1,183      1,208
Depreciation               174       184        193       201        211
Net Income                 (91)       21         63       135        223
Total Assets             3,778     3,941      4,042     4,136      4,196
Long Term Debt           1,337     1,414      1,450     1,405      1,292
Equity Capital           1,180     1,201      1,264     1,399      1,622
Traffic                  1,859     1,896      1,934     2,011      2,092
(million net-ton/km)
@ 1986 Ksh/ton/km        0.591     0.634      0.644     0.654     0.663
Working Ratio               85%       78%        76%       72%        68%
Rece(vables (days)         100        97         94        90         90
Debt to Equity              53%       54Z        53%       50%        44%
5.14     Table 5.2 shows that KR can gradually restore profitability and
generate sufficient cash to meet operating expenditures, service its debt,
and fund its share of project investments, if it carries out its Corporate
Plan with Govermment support as indicated in para 5.10. The key
achievements KR must strive for are: (i) a reversal of recent traffic
trends - a 13% of freight traffic increase in five years appears to be a
miniimlm requirement - to be accomplished mostly through operating
performance improvements; (ii) a change in the traffic pattern - KR must go
after good business and curtail efforts to retain marginal business; and
(iii) adjustment in its tariff structure towards a cost based commercial
pricing system.
5.15     In the area of financial management, three accessory objectives
are essential complements to the basic Corporate Plan strategy: (i) more
realistic depreciation charges to reflect the real cost of KR's asset
utilization; (ii) better collection of receivables to improve liquidity;
and (iii) the introduction of adequate inventory management and control
systems to reduce the cost of carrying a huge stock of spares while at the
same time ensuring that the required spares are available on a relatively
short notice.



- 22 -
D. Financial Targets
5.16     In order to assist the Goverrment, ODA and IDA monitor financial
performance and the achievement of the Corporate Plan objectives outlined
above, the following targets were agreed upon at negotiations:
(i)   the Government, KR and IDA will review annually  agreed annual
operating targets (para 3.17) and financial targets as
follows: in the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1988 a working
ratio of not more than 802 followed by 75Z in 1989 and 1990
and 70% in 1991 and thereafter, a ratio of current assets to
current liabilities of not less than 2.0:1 in 1988 and 1989
and 2.5:1 thereafter, and a ratio of debt to equity of not
more than 55:45 in 1988 and thereafter (para 5.13); and
(ii)    the Government will review annually with IDA losses incurred
by KR in the operation of non-commercially viable services and
arrange necessary compensation payments to KR. (para 5.11).



- 23 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     The following Agreements were reached during negotiations:
(i)   Government will facilitate prompt procurement by KR of spare
parts and equipment (para 3.10);
(ii) KR will not undertake any investments larger than US$500,000
other than those included in this and other ongoing
development projects reviewed by the Association without the
prior consent of the Association and Government (para 3.15);
(iii)   Government will review and discuss with the Association any
future investments in the railways subsector (para 3.15);
(iv)   cross effectiveness and cross default with ODA (para 3.15);
(v)   audit covenant (para 3.24); and
(vi)   financial covenants and performance targets (para 5.16).
6.02     The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Association (para 3.16) will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
6.03     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Credit of SDR 21.8 million (US$28.0 million) at standard IDA terms.
May 14, 1987



- 24 -
Annex 2.1
; Page I of 3
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PRCJECT
KR's Organization
1.        The Kenya Railways Corporation, a parastatal company under the
Ministry of Transport and Communications, is managed by a 5-7 member Board,
comprising a non-executive Chairman, a Managing Director, two permanent
secretaries-one each of the Ministries of Transport and Communications and
of Finance and Planning-the Managing Director of the Kenya Port Authority
and up to three persons unconnected with the Railways, nominated by the
Minister of Transport and Communications (currently there is only one such
person serving on the Board). The nomination of the Chairman (tenure 2 to 3
years )-who is usually a person from public or political life-and the
appointment of the Chief Executive, the Managing Director, is the privilege
of the Minister of the parent Ministry.
2.        Reporting to the Managing Director are seven department heads:
Chief Administrative Secretary, Chief Accountant, Chief Mechanical
Engineer, Chief Civil Engineer, Chief Traffic Manager, Chief Personnel
Manager and Chief Supplies Officer. An organizational chart is attached).
Although a Deputy Managing Director was originally expected to assist the
Mnaging Director in coordination and planning of various activities, the
position was never turned Into a line position and the Managing Director
has been overloaded with work as a result. In fact the overly centralized
and horizontal management structure has forced the Managing Director to
spend too much time on day-to-day running of the Corporation and too little
time on strategic planning and organizational development. Weaknesses are
also apparent in general planning and coordination, statistics and
reporting, and in commercial activites. Those problems are addressed in
the proposed Project.
3.        For operating and maintenance purposes, KR is divided into three
engineering districts (Mombasa, Nairobi, and ha=ura), each having a
district mechanical engineer and civil-engineer (reporting to headquarters
in Nairobi) and five traffic districts (Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru, X±rumu
and Marine Services) each under the jurisdiction of a District Traffic
Superintendent reporting to the Assistant Chief Commercial Traffic Manager
and Assistant Chief Traffic Manager Operations in Nairobi. An additional
Traffic Superintendent is located at Xignumn whose jurisdiction is the
Kisumu-Nakuru Branch line and the Lake Victoria Marine Services.
4.        Over the years, weaknesses have developed in the management.
Initially these were due to the uncertainties over the break-up of the
EARC; later, however, the railway found itself in the -position of not being
able to: (a) consolidate and exploit fully the change-over from steam to
diesel traction and (b) adjust structurally to the increasingly competitive
environment of its business. Internal weaknesses surfaced in: (i) the



- 25 -
Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 3
maintenance of assets, especially locomotives, (ii) the management of the
supplies function; (iii) coordination and planning of activities, and (iv)
accident prevention and analysis, the most consequential repercussions of
which were on locomotive availability. Regression in the reliability of
railway services afforded an opportunity to the trucking industry to
appropriate a mounting share of the long distance bulk transport market.
The operating and financial performance of the railway has thus declined
steadily and is fast approaching crisis conditions.
5.        Initiated under the Bank's First Railway Project (1981) and
eventually funded by the UK Overseas Development Agency (ODA), five major
studies were commenced in 1984 to study KR's fundamental problems in the
following key areas:
(a) Headquarters Organizational Structure (COS)
(b) Training Requirements (TRS)
Cc) Hotive Power (MPS)
Cd) Central Mechanical and Electrical Workshops (CWS)
(e)  The Supplies Department
All except the last, being conducted by the Crown Agents, were
substantially completed by Hay 1985. The MPS and CWS studies were
undertaken by Henderson Busby International and Rendal, Palmer and Tritton
respectively. Coopers & Lybrand Associates carried out the first two
studies and also coordinated and collated all five.



KCNYA nALWAYS COnPOnATION - tnR.NT ORnAISATION STRUTtIU
I_
MOCrAL        INO od wuM .mNiu
1*1 . 1 ,                       .D                                                         1
CEAIINI                fh,1IN                  SEPAWEL _ OAflN                                   CuIPA F~ zooAATWNT s 
F         I                                                                                       CH                        _  I    I;
cs;n  |                                          -"  -        ~                                            saw                                  
M4AO  .RC                                        IE                      lIGOOtflEl                 Ct                    __I
cus1mino,.m~muum        Lseoemmie opon           Foamof way cmuolt         FrM_ ooeouAhg         Pemmi of bed            PAeWAY    Win dv igf           gmL od wsw k
wag". aemutb.          . LocoemUw mctU_eme    O  m4AiOi,oeCt                                                              MayWor w                      sxue. mdn*AWgoe11"
IMom tiai s                   *dI                              thO  mi     Com                           1l ttoroalc                                    14e64t robsipE
Ibmisme                   floo                   WAM" seuietw      NW      Cash IwoiU                                     nMt l   gelsl4ei.             WoS study
Cgm *er                  o.iium.asgeaeiie        cugthll,suetA M e:a :Ct ma"4mosmut                                       T i.     Wl e_odlm  s         ou          s
Ile" latices             041manome of                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~MMgeNWIII of IOrdM  Wage NWd ealy 6mimlilkaoNs  hef.i
t'~~~~~feaek ofte               da°(b's     Cibetl aZ dvIc                                                                                       pus&""2 lej  zwb  oft |ze
Opoughg sildtIikS         mpe.ei4beifeee N*'      GMh.Oh  systemsc          F'h                                           Lbsw v4*MiitrIowLbo dllm.mtofteai
zwebe cokelim       fodenem w               Cn c.wrqcwee and          F  ahuooImW1           P      d              oIfisu ll_    *o1.             Pnest   f m .eme
trofft l rzseh telli h        mtls a"             VAlWOeeew  O* OOefefaWsI tP°                                                   d  m       athe o  f    Ia06I :yle i@ ofNN
prog OM       U        CeRcRrlz                Fh Id ocfteab i sINtrltb                                                 Prtwolle c   dt#ltlh
b*          roz; Z|em                 mm neatle               ptscwomi                                                                       *
ActiuttcW  cceveShop    cohkcal  l*=oh"         ,   om malhfence                                                         fl*4ndtmo. 7"Oolma"  sW
LMass wtis KPA          FmmS l   meloeldoel                                                                                Oel w,elsn
Flo    f"eekl    b        . lo   oomecb                                                          Sletf w.lu
Cmhm  on muthem           kMIetlollg and          esaiUmuale
ChiSs ammemmuawM          melflonoose            A*mftRcolwal searics                                                    Du1.ial meeuu*
Pa omeo OMM2am re.i Eketekel                     n.pmh  Pym Ui" of  e1,,
mqulg.mew MOMIGmeuOe   fon uuloneci cclmfho 
SIIINm Uuiii0oeai       Coiwimol sdmfnltstka In
reelect pletwiag        P10W imii seNd.e makehm4seae
Pmemonrof mawemotiw   Pwuimmal miugmmetW.
Dnipcmeflenms Mcc@unhln"   OOnaunueml mecatimlhlg                                                                                                   "i



- 27 -
Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Manpower and Training
1.       KR's Labor force totalled 23,066 as of May 31, 1985 and is
distributed among departments as shown in the attached chart. Staff
productivity has fallen steadily since 1980; the railway has failed to
adjust its workforce to the declining output in traffic. Overstaffing is
particularly acute in Civil Engineering (track and works staff) while the
central mechanical workshop at Nairobi is overmanned at the lower levels
and weak in the top technical management cadres. Unfortunately, staff
excesses are not distributed evenly throughout the organization; recent
Government orders to rigidly observe Kenya's 55 year old mandatory
retirement age created a shortage of locomotive drives for KR.
Fortunately, some of the retired drives have been rehired on a temporary
contract basis until the training of new drivers can be completed. Another
problem caused by personnel policies is that many of KR's managers have
built up enormous amounts of leave (300-600 days) which now must be taken
or lost. As a result, KR*s management is often disrupted by relatively
long periods of absence of key employees.
2.       KR cannot afford to delay any longer the enforcement of a policy
of containment and progressive reduction of the workforce by attrition.
Retraining and redeployment is another aspect of manpower planning, which
would have to be pursued in activity areas where increasing mechanisation
is anticipated as, for instance, in track maintenance. By 1991, about 2000
staff positions are expected to be eliminated by attrition.
3.       unfortunately, KR's current manpower information records system
is not accurate or systematized; nor has KR ever conducted the sort of
comprehensive job evaluation necessary to proper manpower planning.For
these reasons, Coopers and Lybrand Association's Headquarters
Organizational Study recommends a number of actions to strengthen KR's
personnel management: (i) the introduction of appropriate skills and
procedures for manpower planning and training management; (ii) the
development of personnel management procedures to ensure that they are
objective, fair and in the best interests of employees and the corporation;-
and (liI) the strengthening of the Railway Training School to provide a
training resource appropriate to the skills needed by a modern run railway
with coaercial orientation.
4.       Training of all staf., from the lowest skilled to the supervisory
grades for the civil and mechanical engineering and operating cadres is
centralised at the Railway Training School, a kesidential facility housed
on 55 acres in Nairobi. Opened in June 1956, KR's Training School was
originally-built to train EARC staff; at present it is used primarily for
KR although there are currently some 111 students from Botsvana and
Tanzania in attendance. The school has the makings of a regional training
institute.



- 28 -                   -          .
28                ~~~~~Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 5
5.        School staff are housed on the premises and most of the student
board at the school as vell. Student capacity is 1000; presently there are
839 students most of whom are enrolled in three-four year programs. After
a year of general training in all railway operations, these trainees are
given an opportunity to become skilled-laborers and specialize in
mechanical engineering or traffic operations. Courses in supplies
management, secretarial skills and other clerecal functions are of shorter
duration. A more specific list of courses is attached.
6.        In addition to the main school. a management wing provides
training for supervisory and middle management, usually in courses of 1-5
weeks. Seminars are also held for secretarial management.
7.        The quality of training is good; however, some physical
improvements are needed, including the renewal of some buildings, the
provision of better classrooms for some of the mechanical engineering
sections and the replacement of old equipment. In addition, the management
training center needs to upgrade its dormitory facilities and build up a more
appropriate library and assembly area. These needs are also addressed in
the proposed project.



- 29 -
KENYA
Annex 2.2
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT          page i of 5
SUMMARY OF STAFF EMPLOYED AS OF
31105185 
DEPARTHMENTISECTION              NON-UNIONISABLE   UNIONISABLE          TOTAL
Managing Director                         14               20              34
Personnel & RTS                           67              665             732  3
Management Services                       45               98             143
Civil Engineering                        lll            9,692           9,803  1/
Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering                            89            5,456          5,545  21
Traffic                                   74            5,732           5,806
Accounts                                  40              249             289
Supplies                                  27              687             714
Grand Total                              467           22,599          23,066
11 Track      -   4,619
Works     -   2,720
Health    -     680
Signal    -     113
Telecom   -     109
Adyin.    -     398
21  Central workshops         - 2,508
Loco drivers and firemen  -   420
31 Includes lll other African railway trainees (Botswana-3; Tanzania-108)



-30-                            ANNEX 2.2
Page 4 of 5
SEMARY OF TRAINING SCHOOL COURSES
Categor_                             Grade         Course Type and duration
Operating Section
1. Statlon Mastersl Recruitvent                      Sandwich - 24 months 1/
(Controllers, Goods
and Booking clerks)
2. Assistant Station Master       Recruitment              16 months
3. Teleprinter Operator                                     6 months
4. Statlon Clerks   '                                       6 months
5. Weighing Kachine Fitters                                 3 Years
6. Asst. Trafflc
Superintendents                                12 weeks in school out
of total 24 months
probation
7.  Refresher Courses for categories I & 2               2 - 3 weeks
Nechanical Section
8. Craft Apprentices              Recruitment              4 years
(Fitters/electricians/
Diesel Locomotives-
csrriage end wagon)
9. Technician (Engineering       Selected from       4 years at Kenya
Apprentices)                 8 above             Polytechnic
Civill Engineering
10. Track Inspectors-           Recrultoent                2 years
-11. Craft Apprentices
(Carpenters, Masons,
Painters, Fitters,
Welders, Blocksmiths)                                  3 years
12. Works Inspectors             -                   3 years Kenya
Polytechnic
13. Draftsman, Surveyors, Signal Inspectors, Telecomanication Technicians
are trained (4 years) outside the school, but administered by the
- School.
14. Civil Engineers             Recruitment          12 weeks in School out
of 24 months probation
Supplies Section
15. Senior Clerical (Stores
menagement and procedures)
Divisions I to III          Recruitment          I  Sandwich 18  months,
4 months in School
II Sandwich 6 months -
2 months in school
III  Sandwich 9 months -
3 months in scho6l



31-                         ANNmX 2.2
Pgm T oT 5
SUMMARY OF TRAINING SCHOOL COURSES
Category                             Crade         Course TVPe and duration
Supplies Section
16. Senior Clerical (Stores
Management and procedures)
Divisions I to III           Recruitment      I  Sandwich 180 months,
4  months in school.
II Sandwich 6 months -
2 mout%s in school.
III Sandwich 9 months -
3 months in school.
GENERAL CLERICAL SECTION (all departments)
17. Clerical Division II & III
(personnel, accounting,
storekeeping)              Recruitment       II  22 weeks
18. Management Training: the following courses are run for supervisors:
Supervisory Management     -      5 weeks
Management Development    -       3 weeks
19. Special Safety Courses for Workshop staff are conducted (2 weeks).



- 32 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 7
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
ICR's Proper t
1.        The KR is a single line meter gauge system of 2099 route
kilooeters. made up of 1085 km of main line and 852 km of branch lines and
162km ef worked lines. The main line stretches from the eastern seaboard
Port of Nombasa to Nalaba on the Ugandan border, via Kenya' s capital
Nairobi. The most important branch line (219 km) connects Kisumu on Lake
Victorie to Nakuru on the main line, north of Nairobi. With the decline of
international traffic across Lake Victoria, following the break-up of the
EARC, the wagon ferry at Kisumu ceased to operate until 19nf6; inland waterway
movement is now l1imted to hauls over 85 route kilometer, by tugboats and
lighters, of agricultural produce from the Homa Bay region to Kisumu for
onward movement by rail. The other important branch lines are (i) the 146
km connection to the Soda Ash Deposits at Magadi from Koaza and (ii) the
120 km link from Voi to Taveta, the border station for interchange of
traffic with Tanzania, which has fallen into disuse. The terrain traversed
by the system is difficulc and the line is characteristed by sharp curves
and steep ruling gradients. While the ruling grade and maximum curvature
on the sain line is 1.5 per cent and 9g, on branch lines the range is up to
2.2 per cent and 12- respectively with curvatures up to 16- in exceptional
locations.
2.        The total serviceable Traction and Rolling Stock fleet consists
of:
-    76 main line Diesel Electric Locomotives, 56 low axle load
dual service Branch Line and transfer duty Diesel Hydraulic
Units and 62 Diesel Hydraulic Shunters.  Additionally, 10
rlinline Diesel electric locomotives have been ordered.
-    6623 wagons, mostly bogies, including 332 departmental stock
-    544 coaches, mostly bogies, of which 243 are passenger
carrying and 200 are caboose-parcel vans.
The marine craft owned are:  2 Tugs, 9 lighters, 2 passenger ships and a
dredging plant.
3.        Couplers are of the MBC (centre buffer and hook) attached
eccentric to and below the line at the underframe. The earlier EAWi:
couplers, rated to haul safely 1250 tonnes on 1.18 per cent grade, bave now
been substituted by strengthened couplers said to have a capacity of 1500
tonnes on 1.5 per cent grade. This reputed capacity will need to be
reliably double-checked, if double headed fxheight trains are to be run to
augment the throughput on the main line at a future date.
4.        Graduated release compressed air brakes are fitted to all stock,
freight and coaching. Some older wagons (four wheelers)- are, however, only
through piped for air brakes: for train consists at least 85 per cent
brakes in operation is obligatory and this factor has not been known to
hamper train formation or operations in any way.



33 -                     Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 7
5.        Locomotives:  KR has been plagued with motive power constraints
for some time. As a result, a study of motive power problems and
requirements was one of the studies included in the First Railways Project
and funded by ODA. Recently completed by Henderson Busby International
Limited (consultants UK).
6.        KR operates 3 different .types of main line Diesel Electric
Locomotives (horsepower range 1840 - 2616) and 4 different types in the
Diesel Hydraulic group (horsepower range 302 to 760) of branch line/
transfer duty locomotives and shunters-a feature which distinctly
complicates maintenance, spare parts inventories and the ordering and
procurement of spares. The class 93 locomotive (2616 UP GE - USA, 26 in
number) is the mainstay of KR operations along its heaviest traffic density
corridor, Mombasa-Nairobi. The youngest in the fleet (17 years) they have
proved reliable and have suffered the least from initial 'teething
problems or sobsequent disfunctioning due to deficiencies in design or
manufacture.k/The class 87 (English Electrics 1840 HP - 35 Nos) is a
vintage locomotive of the defunct EARC, but has proved to be singularly
sturdy and, because of its lighter axle load (13.5 tonnes), versatile in
operations: it is hence economic -and practical for KR to extract another
9-12 years service out of them by rehabilitation and major engine
overhauls. The class 92 locomotive (2400 BP Alco-Canada 15 Nos) has been
amongst the most unreliable units in KR service.  Initially the bogies
developed serious cracks; the subsequent welding repairs carried out have
been satisfactory. Thereafter, the current rating of the main generacor
was shown to be inadequate. After considerable discussion, the
manufacturer eventually agreed to supply alternator-rectifier sets of
adequate capacity: 10 locowotives have been refitted and another 5 are to
be converted within the next year. The class 71/72 locomotives (1240 HP
English Electric low axle load) were specially designed for UGANDA railways
light-weight track. Serious irremediable mechanical problems have arisen
with (i) the balancer shaft system designed to reduce engine vibrations at
certain speeds, (ii) parts cl -he dynamic braking equipment,
(Iii) radiators and cooling system. In the result the locomotives have
been taken out of service. In the Diesel Hydraulic group, the class 62
locomotive (760 HP Henschel - 56 Nos), a light axle load (9.5 tonnes)
multi-purpose power unit employed on a variety of ancillary services, has
had a spate of broken axles-attributed by the manufacturers to high
frequency wheel slippage. Remedial measures adopted by KR have for the
tim being arrested the epidemic. A profile of KR's motive power stock is
attached.
7.        About 25Z of the wagon stock is overaged and 23% of the units are
still four wheelers. The tank wagons for petroleum products apart, the
proportion of specialized wagons, dedicated to specific commodities such as
cement, limestone, soda ash, is small in the fleet. Of the coaches 25% of
the passenger carrying vehicles and 40% of the overall holding is over 33
years old. In general bogies are not standardized for either the wagon or
coaching stock. Details of wagons owned by KR are attached.
1/ The 10 mainline Diesel locomotives ordered for delivery in 1987, to
be designated Class 94, are upgraded versions of the Class 93, with
complete interchangeability of spare parts.



- 34 -                    Annex 2.3
Page 3 of 7
Signalling and Telecommunication
8.        All stations on the main line and Kisumu and Magadi branches have
double-wire semaphore signalling operated from a central cabin, except at
Voi where a rudimentary system, similar to that on all branch lines, has
uot so far been upgraded.
9.        Generally telecommunications are by open wire land lines owned
and maintained by the Post and Telegraph Department. Mombasa, Nairobi and
other important stations are provided with administrative line
switchboards. On the main line and the two Important branches, block
working is by key-token instruments; all other branches use the train order
system. The open wire co.munication Mombasa-Nairobi is being replaced by a
14 pair buried cable as part of the First Railway Project and is to be-
commissioned by 1986-87. The old system was breaking down an average of 28
times a month with average repairs taking from 8 to 17 hours.
Implementation has been slow due to problems with local construction crews;
to date only 23 km of new cable has been laid. A radio system for train
operational and wagon stock control has recently been installed in Nakuru
Disrict to link Nairobi, Kisumu and five other main line base stations. It
is intended to link the static system to 12 mobile radios in vehicles used
by the District and Headquarters staff.
Track and Bridges
10.       The track is well-ballasted and generally laid on steel sleepers
except for a part of the Magadi Branch which has wood and concrete
sleepers. The main line has 95 lb/yard rail between Mombasa and Nairobi
and 80/70 lb per yard for the remainder, permitting axle loads of 16.5
tonnes. Branch line rails are 50/60 lbs per yard, limiting ax'le loads to
12.5-13.5 tonnes. Agewise 67% of the track on the main line is 16-30 years
old, 14% 31-50 years and 16% over 50 years. On the Kisumu and Hagadi
branches the track is 16-30 years old and on all other branches over 51
Years old. The oldest main line track was scheduled for renewal ia the
First Railway Project but the program has been delayed by the irretrievable
damage on the high seas to the flash butt welding plant. Legal issues
arising from the difficulties are still in the process of being settled;
meanwhile KR has already acquired the necessary rail for relaying.
11.       Bridges on the railway are generally in a sound condition and
their strength compatible with the track axle loads.  On the Kisumu Branch,
however, it is intended to upgrade the track to 16.5 tonnes axle load with
relay materials released from the main line in order to permit the
circulat±on of heavier modern locomotives: the strength of the vi&lucts-
all steel plate girders of 4Oft and 20ft combinations on steel trestles
(30ft to 102ft high) requires, however, to be investigated. A re-survey of
these 26 so called Mau viaducts is thus included in the Project.



- 35 -
Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 7
Stations. Loops. Sidings and Yards
12.       The railway has 180 stations and the spacing of block sections on
the main line is between 6-12 km on ehe average, with an occasional station
up to 16 km. Loops are l900ft clear length, which can accommodate
double-headed diesel trains of 1500 tonnes trailing.
13.       The main yards of the system are at Changamwe, serving the
Nombasa Port, and at Nairobi. Nalaba, the frontier interchange station
with Uganda, has a holding capacity of 200 wagons. Other minor yards exist
at Voi, Konza, Nakum and the marine wagon ferry terminal of Kisumu.  User
sidings, aggregating 549 km in length, take off from some stations on the
maln line. A container terminal, owned by Kenya Port Authority, connected
by rail and road, has been opened recently at Embakasi, a Nairobi precinct.



- 36 -                              Annex 2.3
Page 5 or 7
MOTIVE POWER STOCK
Axle
Wheel       Load
Class       HP           Make        Arrangement Tonnes        Nos         Year
Main Line - Diesel Electric
93        2616     GE (USA)         Co Co       16.7         26           1978 1/
92        2400.    ALCO (Canada)  1-Co-Co-I   15.7           15           1971
87        1840      Englis Elect.  1-Co-Co-I   13.5          35     (10) 1960 2/
(13) 1964
Branch Line - Diesel Electric                                         (12) 1969
English
71/72     1240      Electric        1-Bo-Bol    12.2         15     (10) 1968 3/
( 5) 1972
Subtotal                 9
Branch Line & Transfer (Diesel Hydraulic)
62        760       Henschel       B-B           9.5         56           1977-79 1/
Shunters (Diesel Hydraulic)
46        690       Barclay        D            12.2         22          1967
47        525       & nslet        D            13.5         35          1979-
35        302      Barclay         C            13.1          5          1972
Subtotal                118
Grand Total nominal fleet               209
Less 71/72 permanently out of service  15
Actual serviceable Total                194
1/ Except for 26-class 93 & 56-class 62, all other units inherited by KR on break
up of East African Railway Corporation.
21  To May 85, 2 locomotives have been rehabilitated with new engines and 3 more
are in hand. Of the 11 units stabled in the Workshops 10 can be put back
into service - 5 by a major engine overhaul and 5 rehabilitated.
3/ These locomotives were specially designed for Branch Line Service and multiple
operation with the class 87. The specially fitted counter balancing shaft
system, radiator/cooling circuits and dynamic braking have proved unreliable
and rehabilitation is questionable.



- 37 -
ANlNE 2.3
WAGON STOCK IN SERVICE - JANUARY 1984             Page 6 of 7
PRE-   1938   1947   1S93   1961   1970   1978
S932  -1946  -1952  -1959  -1969   -1975  -1983   TOTALS
,-- - _- -== 
CENKtAL TRIAFC-              --              ---
C   104     5    148    459.   861        99    660   2336
cov ,A-WHEEL  24    100      89    242    518        -       -     973
OE'N. IDOGIE         168   141    208    299    1.58    139    448    1461
ONN,£SWHEEL          85       - _9                   -       -       -     2Z7
TAREt. DOIE          23    114       50      81    232      69       -     569
7              . 12   34      32      -       -      85
-                  n       - _     _      2 5 -          2 9
lVESTOCK, 4-VHEEL     3      89       4    151       1s      -       -    265
SPECIA TRpFImc
MSL./REFRIG. BOGIE    -       -       -       3      22      -       -      25
DMSL./REFRIG.         3       4       -       -      -       -       -       7
CONTAIER. BOOZE        -     _       10       _      _       -      93    103
4-REL       3                      4       _               _       7.
LDMESTONE. HOPPE       -                     3 0 _           _              3
-   =   :Z          ______                 __  __     7_            ____   ____7
- BM-  -E
CEIWITTANK             -      -               -7             - 
- BOOZE
SODA ASH HOPPER                           - _  _  _   _            140    140
- MM-                               -       -I
CAR CARRIER                                                 10       -      10
-                -       -      -  -E
LPG - BO0              -      _       -              4      10       _      14
LPG - 4-WHEEL         _       _       _       3      -       -       _       3
TOTALS               420    353    565   1408   1852    352   1341   6291
DEPARXNAL
STOCK
BOGZE                223                                                   223
A-VHM  IL09                                             3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~09
TT-U                         -       -               -       -      -      -
OTaLS                33             3==-=



- 38 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 7 of 7
COACHING STOCK IN SERVICE - JAJNUARY 198
(OCIZ VEHCLES EXCEPT WME
STATED OTHERWISE)
PRE     1938    1947    1953    1961    1970    1978      1984
-1932  -1946  -1952   -1959   -1969  -1975   -1983   DELIVERY 
P     =SEM           12      21      29      4        111      _      52      115       243
CASI                  6_      _                                           2  1  _       2_3
9  129416 
CL            14   6   _  38 -                 0-                _6
EAJIUMCABOO           6       41            2-         -       -       -       -        15
JZCAfOOSE,           26 1     4    '       42         23       _       _       _.O5
PARCEL (4-WHE)
_ _         46      90     157       52              52      74
Sore Keny Ralw



39 -                    Annex 2.4
Page I of 5
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
KR's Operating Performance
1.        Some salient operational performance data indicators are
_ attached. On the whole locomotive availability and low reliability,
coupled with the wide range of horsepowers of the main line fleet
(1840-2616), have adversely affected operations.  While there is scope for
;-   improvements in the skills and techniques of operational handling of yard
marshalling, train formation and crew ordering, en route monitoring and
r    controlling and in the servicing of private sidings and wayside goods
;     sheds, better availability and a reduced frequency of  on the road
failures of locomotives is the key to the efficacy of operations and
rsliability of service.
Wagon and Container Turnaround
2.        Wagon turnaround is high, at about 16 and 13 days for general
user and tank wagons respectively. The latter can be-reduced to 8 days for
the M?ombasa-Nairobi circuit if the movement of certain petroleum products is
organized in block trains, instead of piecemeal or in groups of 4-6 wagons
as is done currently. For this the loading and decanting facilities will
be suitably improved by the oil companies. The general user wagon
turnround is also capable of reduction in stages to 12, if not 10 days, by
curtailing yard and terminal handling detentions.
3.        Quick transit and turnaround is critical to the transport of
containers. This is a particularly lucrative and fast growing area of bulk
transport not just in Kenya, but, in the long run, for transit traffic to
Uganda and neighbouring territories of Rwanda, Burundi and Eastern Zaire.
A privately owned inland container depot, recently opened in Kampala for
servicing the region, has requested a railway siding. Currently, KR
operates only one container special train daily between Mombasa Port and
Nairobi equivalent to less than one third of the traffic on this
route--despite the laver-than-road freight rates. To exploit fully the
potential of the Embakasi Inland Container Depot, managed by the Kenya Port
Authority, KR will have to solve the problem of local road haulage as a
significant part of the turnaround time at Nairobi is attributable to
this factor.
Si8nalling and Telecommunication
4.        Signalling failures are not high, but open wire maintenance
leaves much to be desired. Its most adverse effect is on the operation of
block Instruments. Once the underground cable is comaissioned, this
problem will be satisfactorily solved on the Mosbasa-Nairobi route. On the
Nairobi-Nalaba main route and the Kisumu, Magadi Branch, supplementing the
stations on radio link would be a less expensive, though not wholly
satisfactory, solution for the present.



- 40 -                            Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 5
Track Maintenance of Plant
5.        Maintenance Is manual, organized in gangs of 15 men (12 on
branches) with beats of 6-8 km. Accommodation is provided in gang lodges
alongside the track.  The manpower-ratio is 1.5 men per km.   Despite the
age, the condition of the track is generally good; ballast is adequate in
quality and quantity. Maintenance is consistently good throughout,
Including that of sidings and yards. Gradual switch-over to mechanization
is contemplated on the main line and of the three tamping Machines ordered,
one-has been delilered.  However, the ballast size will require stricter
control if mechrAized maintenance is extended. All ballast is currently
bought out: departmental quarries have been planned at Taveta, Kibwezi and
Gilgi and mobile stone crushers ordered.  Rail welding has not made headway
owing to problems with the delivery of a flash butt welding plant and the
track relaying program of 1981 (100 km approx.) has thus been considerably
retarded. Few derailments are attributed to track defects. Current track
maintenance practices are also slowed by a lack of ballast wagons that
transport and then dump ballast at renewal sites. Instead, ballast must be
shoveled by hand from transport vehicles to trackside; until finished, no
other trains can use the track sections where such activity occurs which
further ,.owers motive power utilisation. The purchase of 30 ballast wagons
is justified. Acquisition of a mobile butt-welder is also called for to
alleviate the rail renewal bottleneck. Both needs are addressed in the
proposed Project.
Equipment Maintenance
6.        The major repair and overhaul of locomotives, wagons and coaches
is centralized in the workshops at Nairobi. There are five main diesel
maintenance and servicing depots at Changamwe (Mombasa). Hakadara
(Nairobi), Nakaru, Eldoret and Kisumu: three minor shunter depots are at
Nairobi, Voi and Kajiado. All except Changamwe, where the fleet of class
93 locomotives is homed, are converted steam sheds. Makadara Depot works a
single day shift only, while the others operate round the clock. There are
two major wagon repair depots, adjacent to the yards at Mombasa and
Nairobi. The quality of the work done in the depots is variable and the
locomotive history sheets are often incomplete. The shortage of spares has
naturally had a serious effect on the standard of maintenance and has
resulted in the development of bad practices. A study of workshops was
also included in the First Railways Project and funded by ODA. Performed
by Rendell, Palmer and Tritton (consultants UK), the main conclusion of the
report is that methods of repair have not kept pace with the transition
from steam to diesel.
7.        The Nairobi Central Workshop has sufficient capacity for KR's
current and anticipated needs for the next two decades. Owing to the
multiplicity of locomotive types and hold-ups in spares supplies, however
the locomotive section is congested, requiring layout improvements and some
marginal additions of equipment. The Changamwe Depot, though new, lacks
heavy lifting facilities and is cramped for space because of the allocation
of a larger number of locomotives than it was initially designed for. The



- 41 -
Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 5
Kisumu depot structure requires heavy repairs. A spectographic test
equipment for diesel lubricants and fuel oil is being set up in the central
workshop area. In general, the plant and machinery of the worksnop is
adequate.
8.        The upkeep of wagons and coaches is to acceptable standards
generally. Locomotive maintenance is, however, the weakest link in KR's
whole chain of activities - a weakness management has not been able to
overcome despite ample workshop and depot facilities. Undoubtedly
multipliciry of types and the attendant complexity of spares identification
and procurement have aggravated the problem. KR's financial difficulties
and, during the early 1980's, foreign exchange limitacions have also
affected the timely attainment of spare parts. A further distressing
factor has been that many of the new acquisitions have been deficient in
design and manufacture, which have been acknowledged and rectified over a
considerable lapse of time. On the part of the railway, maintenance
schedules are not strictly adhered to and there is a tendency to overwork
mainline locomotives in traffic duties. In the long run this has a
-snowballing' effect and results in both a progressive lowering of
standards of maintenance and of the overall availability of the fleet. In
the last six years no locomotive type has achieved an availability higher
than 75%, except in the first two years of its service and fleet
availabilities have been generally in the 50-70Z range for main line
diesel-electric locomotives and somewhat higher for the diesel-hydraulic
group of shunters.
9.        The Motive Power Study also found that shortage of motive power
is not the sole reason for the,decline in traffic moved by KR. Poor
operating practices, as manifest in poor timekeeping, is also a problem.
Analysis of Guards' reports for April 1984 showed that only 13Z of the
trains started at or before their scheduled time and 84% of the trains tha;
ran lost an average of over 4 hours on their journey. More specifically,
the actual journey from Mombasa to Nairobi is scheduled to take
approximately 17 hours but over 96% of the trains were more then 1 hour
late and on average they were 4.5 hours late. Reasons for the poor
timekeeping as stated in the reports included: locomotive failure; casual
travel (unscheduled stops to pick up and set down casual, unofficial
travelers); missing brake pipes from wagons; delay In acceptance of trains
into marshalling yards; and poor crossing movements due to poor
telecommunications between Control and stations. The project includes
technical assistance and equipment purchases to allieviate these problems.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2.4
KENYA RAILWAYS               Page 4 of 5
OPERATIONAL PERFORKANCE DATh
Loeootves (Haln lne)
1983     1984     1985
Class 93: Availability                 S          70.47    69.7    69.4*
Annual kms/Loco available (000)       145      164      160.9
Kmslfailure                        16,400   13,669   13,708
Class 92: Availability                 S          32.6    59.9    53.4
Annual Kus/Loco available (000)       107      106      116.7
KuIfaalur                           3,211    4,067    4,537
Class 87: Availability                 S          50.0    44.9    43.6
Annual MmzlLoco available (000)       107      107      115.9
Ku/failur*                          7,755    5,452   10,840
Wazons:   Availability                 S          89.3    88.4    83
Average load/loaded wagon(tons)        16.1     15.8     14.6
Wagon km/Wagon day                     47.8     45.7     65.3
Turnaround general users--days         15.83    15.77    16.7
Tank (Pol)    --days         14.44    13.02    12.9
Productivity per availablo
Wagon DnitlYear (000) tonlkm          189      184      176
Trains:   Wagon unitslfreight train               35       36       29
Trailing load/freight train--tons     593      584      561
* Train loads, however, had to be reduced by 171 owing to traction motor
bearing wear.



-43-
Annex 2.4
rage 3 of 5
TRACTION AND ROLLING STOCK MAINTENANCE INSTALLATIONS
Central Mechanical and Electrical Workshop, Nairobi
Heavy repairs
anticipated
Locomotives repair (output)         1981  1982  1983   1984   1985  next 5 yrs.
General                             29    25     32    36      40    47
Casual                              88    76     93    47      63
Accident                            12    12      5    11       5
Average days for gen. repairs       64    78    106
Waftons repair
11
General                             2862  2653  1696   1354   2181  1400
Casual                               543   696   451    ,57    508
Accident                            1050  1117   746    604   1323
Coach repair
1/
General                              330   271   279    208    301   213
Csual                                135   284   157    154    211
Accident                              60    66    46      60     86
Locomotive depots/allocations
Class                     93      92     87     62      Shunters  Totals
Nairobi                   -       -      -      -        20        20
Makadara                  -       15     -      28       -         43
Chengamwe                 26      -      -      10       20        56
Nakuru                    -       -      35      6        5        46
Eldoret                   _       _-                      7         7
Kisumu                    -       -      -       7        4        11
Voi                       -       -      -       5        1         6
Kajiadu                   _       _      _                5         5
Total            194
11    Output recorded In the 12 year period 1961-73 was:
Wagons           Coaches
Annual average (units)                     3375               414
Maximu- (in year)                          4000 (1971)        484 (1965)



- 44 -
Annex 2.5
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Traffic Review
I. Freight Traffic
1.       In 1971 KR carried 4.2 million tons of freight, equivalent to 2.98
billion net ton kilometers, with an average haul of 710 km.   Of the total
tonnage lifted, 2.9 million was Kenya's internal traffic and 1.3 million
tons Uganda traffic. In 1979, after the breakup of the EARC, KR carried
3.8 million tons or 2 billion net ton-kilometers, the average haul having
reduced to 530 km because of the fall in Uganda traffic to 0.15 million
tons.   Kenya's domestic tonnage had, however, risen by 0.75 million to
3.65 million despite the opening of the Mombasa-Nairobi oil pipeline which
resulted in the loss of over 10% of KR's freight traffic.
2.       In the five-year period 1980-84, the peak traffic was 2.28 billion
net ton kilometers in 1981--or 4.3 million tons with an average haul of 531
km. Uganda's share of traffic remained at about 4% of the total haul, the
same level as in 1979. 63% of the traffic was accounted for by six
commodities--petroleum products, cement, grain, fertilizer, soda products,
and sugar. 31Z of the total corresponds to general goods, a group of 30
major commodities such as iron and steel, paper, hides and skins,
limestonellime, salt, flourspar, bitumen, and coffee. The balance, 6%,
broadly classified as "other goods' represents a multitude of miscellaneous
commodities, including containers, carried in annual tonnages of less than
4,000 per commodity (see attached table).
3.       By 1984 and 1985 the traffic had steadily fallen to 2.03 and 1.86
billion ton km, or 3.6 and 3.2 million tons respectively, with marginally
increased average hauls of 563 and 573 km. The decline was in cement,
fertilizer and sugar. Petroleum products, soda products and other goods
remained practically unchanged in tonnage and haul distances. General
goods receded by about 62. KR's operational problems, more specifically
the persistent low availability of main line motive power, was the main
cause of the traffic retrogression.
4.       At the end of the project period, 1991, the traffic is estimated
to reach 2.3 billion net ton kilometers,l/ or an increase of 0.3 billion
over 1984. The growth is a conservative estimate of the recovery KR is
expected to make in the retrieval and development of traffic in relation to
the prospects. The potential for Uganda transit traffic is greater than
the 0.2 billion net ton kilometers allowed for in the forecast. In fact,
0.258 billion net ton kilometers was transported in 1985, in the ratio of
40:60 of exports and imports. In 1985 the all-rail route via
I/ Equivalent to 4 million tons with an average lead of 565 km.



- 45 -
Anne% 2.5
Page 2 of 3
Malaba/Tororo was active, but could not be exploited adequately because of
track maintenance problems in Uganda and motive power shortages in Kenya.
Moreover, turnaround of wagons was sluggish in Uganda and, generally, more
Kenyan wagons were held up there than vice-versa. In early 1986, however,
as operations on this route fell off sharply, owing to aggravation of the
Uganda track problems, the Kisumu-Jinja Lake Victoria ferry service was
revived in mid-1986. This service is currently averaging 15 trips a month
with one of the three new Ugandan wagon ferries--equivalent to about 1.25
trains each way or 500 tons of freight per day.
II. Passenger Traffic
5.       Passenger traffic rose from 273 million kilometers in 1978 to 499
in 1979, an increase of 83%. In this period, however, the number of
passenger journeys remained more or less constant, indicating an increase
in the average journey length from 154 to 283 kIc, This was due mostly to
increased travel between the west of Kenya and Nairobi, a pattern that
appears to have continued since then. A sharp increase in the two years,
1979-81, to 769 million passenger kilometers was followed by a 38Z decrease
to 484 million in 1964, followed by a slight increase of 16Z in 1985 to 563
million.



FNilff TRAFFIC 13   - 1I1I
Coment,           0.420   f.12"   M.410    .217   *.864   0.178   -.201   *1U   0.216   *.141   0.149 0.101
Grain             0.*920   0.4W    0.197   0.441   *.960   8.4U6   9HS    0.470   0.*72   0.454    ,5409 *.296
Fertilxzers       0.2U4  0.S0   S.2U   0.172   * 19.1W   0.1W   0.19   0.127   0.191   0.977   9.207  S.201
Petroleum prod.  *M10  0*264    . 111   *249   *.117   6.269   6.5416   .255   0.512   0.2* 3   0.499  8.297
Woda product      *.2"   0.120   9.162   *.906   0.111   0.101   0.202   0.117   0.226   0.182   9.*82 0.187
sugar & Can       0.8* 7   *.1U6   0.874   S.172   0.*20   0.114   e.827   *.144   .2m    6.152   0.298  0.162
Gwnral t.dev    14.842  9*.725   1.87   9.798   1.810   0.711   1.196   0.714   1.127   *.662   M.W 7 .562
Olhee goodalf     8.249   0.126'  0.215   9.102   0.209-  .109   I.M    9.101   0.216  '1.136   0.822   .190
Tot l          4.290   2.206   4.241   2.241   4.061  1.19    8.93   3.001   LON6   2.U82   8.240  1.566
Avers"  haul (ha)      581              S2?               11              35               U08
Keall-Ujna transit frt¢lCI  ( l    Eds  handa, SurundI)
au 2 LM                 I U97?   Am    IM
Total KR traffie
[ I I lo  teas)        4.228      8.540     8.3I       80.76 U    .963     3.240
Keeva&-Uad  traff Ic
To Uganda                0.6       0.4* 7     0.212     N.3s      9.176      *.1 is
From Ugand               LI*L      LIR        19.2      LE          AL
Subtotal              1 I.44    0.767     0.860      0.149@    0.C86      0.256
0.
LJ  T a tons (milltoes); THU * ton kilometers (billion.)
9/   oneral good  covers 89 statistial ly Identifld commotleie  carrioed In the tonnage range 4,00J to 16 60 such
as Iron A steel  paper, hide. ond skilns, limestone/lme  solt, flourepar, bitumen, coffee. Other cowmodities
represent a host of miscellaneous goods, Including containerg, carried In tonnages of loee 4,9 per cowmodlty
annually.



- 47 -
KENYt - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                           Annex 2.6.1
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Income Statements
for the years ended Decsm-er Slat
(oillion Ksh's)
1985    1981    1982    1989    1984    1906
-- - *udited--                          - -
Revenues:
Freight                     S6u     739     869      949   1,156' 1,613
Passengers                   62      as      99      107    1u       162
Other                        46      64      46       46      38      67
667     181     963   1,1.1   1,246   1,742
Working Expenss:
Salaries and 8enofits       278     427     461      489     496     813
Maintenance
- Way and Works            61      67      80       79      38     181
- Mechanical               42      45      69       6S      6S     lea
Fuel and Supplies           111     126     163      165     152     264
Other Running Expense        23      26      33       38      32      64
SCGA (Overhead)              77      82     111       77     le     216
Other                        15      16      22       24      19      26
s97     773     919     9a7      969   1,606
Operating Result           70     103      34      194     277     136
D3preciation               1i6      103     103      103     103     1SS
Net Operating Result      (36)      0      (69)     91     174     (19)
Interest Expense             67     126     130      129     e8      158
Interest earned                              10       13      22      29
Net Income (Loss)        (1M3)   (126)   (189)    (26)   1lg    (148)
=    =      =~~~~~~2z= ==
aJ 18 months ended June 3U, 1986
April 1987



- 48 -
KENYA - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                            Annex 2.6.2
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Balance Sheets at Pecmber 31st
(million Ksh's)
aJ
1990    1981    1982    1983    1984    1998
_- ------ udited-- - ---- 
ASSETS
Cash                          7      76      12       42     110     (31)
Accounts Receivable         224     237     260      311     324     394
Inventories                 318     285     399     487      847   1,009
Current Assets            649     598     661     840   1,281   1,372
Fixed Assets              3,444   3,508   3,568   3,690   3,503   3,976
Accumulsted Dep't;on      1,676   1,778   1,875   1,840   1,767   1,899
Net Fixed Assets          1,768   1,728   1,683   1,750   1,736   2,078
Deferred Churgss
Other Assets                136     1S6     170     197      187     199
Total Assets              2,463   2,482   2,614   2,787   3,204   3,847
=-=  -   =                           =_.
LABILITIES
Current Liabilities         144     204     311     210      203     202
Long Term Debt              392     895     902     381      893   1,318
Provisions                  763     844     93S     986      956   1,059
Paid in Capital           1,122     S18     518     518      S18     S18
Reserves                    254     369     386   1,265   1,088   1,152
Retained Earninjs          (222)   (348)   (537)   (582)   (454)   (602)
Total Equity            1,154     539     366   1,211   1,152   1,068
Liabilities and Equity   2,453   2,482   2,514   2,787   3,204   3,647
*J At June 30, 19S6
April 1987



- 49 -
KENYA - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                            Annex 2.6.3
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Funds Statements
(million Ksh's)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1986
--------------audited-----------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Not Income                  (103)   (126)   (189)    (25)   18    (148)
Depreciation /_*            168      184     194      163      74     268
Funds from Operations         3       S8       6      128     182     110
Net Borrowings                       503       7    (521)    S12      425
Equity Capital                      (489)     1s     870    (167)      64
Financing                             14      23     349      346     489
Total Sources                       72      28     477      527     599
USES OF FUNDS
Working Capital                      (11)    (44)    280      448      92
Not Plant and Equipment               63      58      170      89     496
Other Investments                     20      14      27      (10)     12
Total Uses                         72       28     477     527      599
aJ 18 months *nded June 30, 1986
/_a Includes amortization and other non-cash charges.
April 1987



- 50 -
KENYA - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                          Annex 2.8.4
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Ratio Analysis
*J
1986    1981    1982    1983    1984    1986
Efficiency:
Revenue Turnover          37.7%   S1.6%   66.61   62.93   71.8X   56.9%
Receivables Turnover /b    121      97      94     102      94     122
Inventory Turnover /lb     192     132     156     193     315     339
Productivity:
Number of employees     21,634  22,778  22,971  22,287  22,364  23,236
Revenue/employee /_c        31      39      41      49      66      s6
Net-ton/km/employ. /d      16      98      91      94      91      80
Traffic units/employees    139     133     125     127     113     106
Pricing:
Million Net-ton/km       2,286   2,241   2,097  2,06   2,034   2,788
0 Ksh/ton/km           6.245   0.330   0.386   6.463  6.546  6.643
Million Pass/km            704     778    772      728    484    9w8
o Ksh/Pass/km          0.688   0.113   0.128   0.147   0.207  6.178
Prof.tability:
Working Ratio             89.65   88.3X  96.43   82.4%   77.81   92.23
Operating Ratio         1i0.4%  166.61  107.2%  91.7X   86.0X  161.1X
Return on Fixed Assets    -2.06    6.OX  -4.6%    6.3%   16.6X  -1.0%
Liquidity:
Working Capital /e*        406     394     356    630   1,078   1,170
Current Ratio             3.81    2.93    2.13    4.60    6.31    6.79
Quick Ratio               1.61    1.63   0.84    1.68    2.14    1.80
Capitalization:
Debt to Equity            26.41   62.4%   71.13   23.9X   43.7%  56.23
Asset Leverage            53.0%   78.3%   86.4X  5.6%  64.06   70.73
Times interest earned    -0.52    0.01   -0.46   0.81    2.24    6.07
aJ 18 months ended June 30, 1986
bJ Average days on hand
cJ Thousand Ksh's
dJ Thousand
eJ Million Ksh's
April 1987



- 51 -
KENYA - SECOfD RAILWAY PROJECT                        Annex 2.6.5
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Financial Forecast
Assumptions 1
1967   1906   1989   1990   1091 L   92   1993   1994   1995   1996
Traffic:
Million Net-ton/k       1,qu9  1,696  1,934  2,911  2,092  2,195  2,088  2,305  2,3WO  2,309
MIlIIon Pn/h.             593    531   6S9    S-        S47   s53       526    S15    OSW    490
Tariffs:
i9Se Ksh/ton/bm         6.591  9.634  9.644  B.654  0.668  9.671  9.671  8.671  9.671  9.671
INSe Ksh/Pam/h.         9.137  0.192  0.197  9.201  0.296  9.219   0.21   1.21   9.21   0.21
Exchange rate WIlS..h    70a.5   16.5   16.5   16.5   16.S   16.5   16.S   16.5   16.5   16.6
Exchange rate USSILSt   0.69   9.69   9.69    0.69   9.69   0.69   9.69    6.69   0.69   0.69
Inf lation                7.55   2.95   1.9%    1.9    2.85   3.55   8.b5    3.56    3.5b   3.55
1.1  1.975  1.997  1.197   1.119  1.144  1.184  1.225  1.208  1.312   1.358
Tot l Staff            22,90  22,589 22,281  21,078 21,679 21,386 21,865 21,388  21,385 21,385
Intereet nWEe    6.715  8.755  8.755  3.755  8.7SX 8.755  s.5   3.7sx  8.76X 5 8.75X  8.755
Capital Insstmente:        6s9    175    162    160    148        84    251    249    259    279
Ne  Locon:      207      25X   COS    25X
Spaer    :       -80      ON      a      l5     255    265    291   1us
Otbhr           231              1NS    295    39o    805   1a
Depreciable Life-yers      25      25      25     2C      25      26      2C     26      25      26
Technical aesietance:      47      47      47     47
US.1n,40
Borrowings (mtilln)       161   25       239    157    102       as             37      14       9
ODA Let.: 1l.9       55    30       49X    255
IDA USS   283.       eS      25   1i       215    22X    18S    13X        eX      ax
Eximbank  US$   18.9       255    5O%    255
Coamitted  KCl  1901.9     75      255
Debt Amortization:        142    178    194    202    215    249    249    249    249    249
Old Debt                142    178    194    202    215    215    216    215    215    215
Ne Debt        81.1                                             34      34     34      a4      34
Cash:          Re veue      55      65     7X      as      9S   1us    lw    1id    1in    1UK
Receiveblee:   Revenue    28       27X    265    265    25X    25X    265    25S    25%    25X
Inventory:     Expenoe    355    89       75S     70%    655    695    6n        6n      695    6as
Current LiablteExpEn-e    a5       409    40X    409    35X    309    385    J4X    30%    30X
March 17



- 52 -
KENYA - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                         Annex 2.6.6
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Financial Forocast
Assumptions II
1987    1988   1989    1990   1991   1992   1993    1994    1995    1996
Traffic Growth:
Freight                   O.OX    2.0X    2.6%    4.0X    4.0X    5.0%    6.0X
Pamngors                 -2.0%   -2.0%  -2.0%  -2.6X   -2.0X  -2.6X  -2.0X  -2.6X   -2.0%  -2.0Z
Traffic Pattorn:
Grains                    28.0X   25.1X   27.1L   29.2W   81.8X   31.3X  31.3W   31.3X   31.38   31.3%
Oil Products              13.6X   12.2W   11.4%   10.5X    9.7X    9.7X    9.7X    9.7X    9.7X    9.7X
Cement                    8.0%    9.4X   10.7%   12.15   13.5X   13.5W   13.S%   13.6X   13.6W   13.5X
Fertilizers               4.6X    3.7W    3.4X    3.2W   2.9X    2.9W    2.9X    2.9W    2.9%    2.9W
Sugar                     7.6x    7.0X    6.3W    6.7X    6.0X    6.0X    5.0X    S.0X    5.0%    5.OX
Soda Ash                  6.5%    6.3%   5.6X    5.0X   4.6X    4.5X    4.5X    4.65    4.6X    S.SZ
Containers                 5.0X    6.3X    7.6X    8.8X   1.1X   19.1X   16.lX  1l.1X   16.1X   10.1X
Genoral Merchandise       28.0X   26.56   23.15  20.6W   18.2S   18.2W   18.2%   18.2X   18.2X   18.2%
Othor                     4.9%    4.9X    4.9%   4.9%    4.9X    4.9X    4.9X    4.9W    4.9%    4.9%
16W.OX  2.0lO 1O.OX  100.0X 160.6   1W.9%  106.0X  100X.6   16.60% 106.0%
Yield Increses:
Grains                   1O9W    6.0
Oil Products             1090X
Cement                   19.6W    6.O%
Fertilizers             1.OX
Sugar                     10.0X   7.OX
Soda Ash                         30.OX   36.6X  30.0 0    30.0%   30.0%
Containers                        6.0%
CGnoral Merchandise       W5.0O  10.60
Other                    10.0%
Weighted Average        S.9X    7.3X    1.6W    1.SX    1.3%   1.3%   6.0X    O.0X    0.0%    O.6%
Pasengers                 4.6X    3.1X    2.2X   2.2X    2.2X    2.2X
Loss per pass/km: Ks%    0.246   0.246   0.246  0.250  0.268   0.266   0.271  6.277   0.282   0.288
Varch 1987



- 53 -
KENYA - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                           Annex 2.6.7
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Pro-fornm Income Statements
for the years ended June 30th
(million Ksh's)
1987    1988    1969    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    1996
Revonues:
Freight                  1,196   1,317   1,379   1,471   1,595   1,746   1,897   1,963   2,032   2,103
Passengers                 119      123     124     126     129     133     13S     137      139     141
Other                       48      49       49      56      51      63      ES      67       69      61
1,347   1,489   1,563   1,648   1,765   1,932   2,087   2,157   2,230   2,306
Working Expenses:
Salaries and Benefits      574     578      576     573     578     590     ll     633      655     678
Maintenance
- Way and Works           94      96       97      96     lee     104     mm3    112       1le     120
- Mechanical              e1      as       84      85      87      90      93      96       99     162
Fuel and Supplies          131     187      196     197     207     222     238     248      254     261
Other Runiiif''n Expenses   46      47       48      5o      52     s5       86      62       64     e6
SOA (Overhead)             155     18       16O     162     166     172     178     184      191     197
Other                       18      18       18      18      18      19      20      21       22      23
1,149   1,167   1,173   1,193   1,208   1,253   1,308   1,364   1,400   1,447
Operating Result         198     322      380     463    57      679     779     803      830    9ss
Depreciation               174      184     193     201     211     222   . 240     259      279     306
Net Operating Result      24     138      187     262     346     4S7     539     544      551     558
Interest Expens-          lS      117      124     127     123     113      99      82      63       43
Net Incom  (Loss)        (91)     21       63     135     223     344     440     462      488     S15
Estimated Compensation
on psms ger traffic        156     153      154    156      161     169     174     181      187     193
Adjusted Inco               65     174      217     291     384     513     614     643      675     708
March 1987



- 54 -
KENYA - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                         Annex 2.6.8
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Pro-form  Balance Sheett at June Jfth
(at 71on Ksh's)
1967   1988   1989    1996   1991   1992   1993    1694    1990   1996
ASSEYS
Cash                        67      89    103    131      1C3    193    2C6       215     222    230
Accounts Rcewivable        374    4t2    464    412    441    48          522      39      57    576
Invetoree                  97    034    686    623    765    752    73            612    649    666
Current Asset          1,418  1,425   1,392  1,371   1,3J4  1,423   1,515   1,566   1,619  1,674
Fixed Assets            4,347  4,812  4,322   6,921  5,235   5,557  6,012   6,471   6,9U6  7,490
Accumulated Depr'tion    2,223   2,460   2,686   2,913  3,191  8,532   3,964   4,899   4,749  6,226
Net Fixed Asset          2,119  2,152  2,142  2,111  2,094  2,125   2,198   2,162  2,217  2,273
Derred Charge               40      74    158    128    w59        93      79      67      57      46
Other Assets               211    296    406    526    699    761    392   1,93   1,232  1,415
Tota I Assee.            3,776   3,941  4,142   4,186   4,196   4,327   4,594   4,66   5,C225   5,40C
2931   mmm              m         -z-m-
LIAILrTIES
Current Liabilities       402    467    469    473    423    376    392           416     420    434
Long Term Debt           1,357  1,414   1,450  1,465   1,292  1,126    987    725         490    241
Provisions                 69    S69    869    859    659 89              859     659    659    659
Paid In Capital            716    713    716    718    716    716    718          71n   n7        711
Reserves                 1,152   1,152  1,12  1,162   1,152  1,152  1,152   1,12   1,152  1,152
Retained Earnings         (696)   (669)  (696)  (471)  (246)        6    56m      998   1,486  2,001
Total Equity           1,139   1,201   1,264  1,390   1,622   1,90   2,40S  2,686   8,356   3,871
Liabilities and Equity   3,776   3,941  4,642  4,136   4,106   4,827  4,594  4,868  5,125  5,405
March 1967



- 55 -
KENYA - SECOND RAWAY PROJECT                             Annex 2.6.9
KENYA RAILAYS COPORATION
Pro-form  Fund  Statments
(m    llon Koh'l)
1907    1063    196     10os    1001    1002    100 I    1904    100w    1996
SOtUCES OF FUNDS
Net Incom                   (91)     21      63     1J5     223     344     440      462     488    515
Depreciation               174      S4      193     261     211     222     243      259     279     300
Fund from Operation.        6J      2       256      ms     434     56      6O0     721      767     81S
Nut Borrowing               1S       77      a6     (45)   (113)   (168)   (139)   (212)   (235)   (249)
Equity Capitol             2         9 *     *        *       *               3 *              6 O
Financing                  219      77      JS      (46)   (113)   (168)   (139)   (212)   (235)   (249)
Tot a Sourco            302     262      292     201     821     406     491     50o    532    568
_-                    -                -       -                -     -                 = 
USES OF FUDS
Working Capital     aJ   (157)    (53)    (3)    (25)        63      91      71      37       39      41
Net Plant and Equipment    217     217      163     173     194     153     323     313      334     356
Other Investments          242      123     144     146      64    I15       97     159      159     169
Total Uses                 32       262     202     291     321     40      491     569      532     S66
aJ Investent In -ew *quip mnt Is shown after reevaluation of
f xed assets.
March 16



- 56 -
KENYA - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                        Annex 2.6.10
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Pro-forma Ratio Analysis
1997   1988   1989   1990   1091              192 1993   1994   1995   1996
Efficiency:
Revenue Turnover         63.06   69.25  72.5X   78.06   84.35  95.45   99.65  99.85  106.65  101.4X
Receivables Turnover /a   1e       97     94  90          so      90      90  90         96      9 
Inventory Turnover / p    306    288    276    262    234    216    216    216    216    216
Productivity / b           65      66     63      67      71      76      a      30      79      79
/-            61      U4      87     92      96   16       108    138   1m8       108
Pricing:
Million Net-ton/km      1,869  1,896  1,934  2,011  2,692  2,196   2,366   2,305  2,306  2,3086
o lCsh/ton/km         0.835  0.696  6.713  0.731  0.768  6.796   0.823  0.861   0.881   0.912
Nillion Pas/km            693    g81    669    658    647    538    525    515    56O    496
3 Ksh/Pas/km           6.20   0.21   0.22   0.22   0.24   0.26    0.26   6.27    0.28   0.29
Profitability:
Working Ratio              865    78s    765    725    685    655    635    635    635    635
Operating ratio            98X    915    8a8      845    8       765    745    755    755    765
Return on Fixed Assets    1.25   6.55    3.7X  12.35  16.55  22.25   28.15  26.55   26.25  24.9%
Net Return (after lnt.)  -4.7X    1.65    2.05   6.35   15.65   16.75   21.35  21.65   22.35   22.95
Liquidity:
Working Capital /d      1,016    968    923    898    961  1,062   1,123   1,16    1,199   1,240
Current Ratio             3.6    3.1    3.6    2.9    3.3    3.8    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9
Quick Ratio               1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.4    1.8    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9
Capitalization:
Debt to Equity             535    54X    sa3    5ax    445    36          285    20X    13%       65
Asset Leverage             6s9    709    69%    6X    615  S65            48s    41X    35s    285
Time Interest Earned    6.21   1.18   1.51   2.06   2.81   4.64    5.44    6.64    8.74  12.98
Self Financing /.*        -425    155    34J    795   1155   2265   1365   1485   1465   146X
aJ Average days on hand
bJ 1986 thousand Ksh revenue per employee
cJ Tons of Freight/employee
dJ Million Koh's
*J Net Income : Net Capital Expenditures
March 1987



- 57 -
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 5
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Revised Organizational Structure and External Framework
A. New Organization
1.        Since the present organizational structure was set up as a
stop-gap measure at the breakup of the EARC, it has been apparent for some
time that the headquarters' organizational structure needed reform. For
this reason, a study of KQR's organizational structure was included in the
First Railway Project, subsequently funded by ODA, and recently completed
by Coopers and Lybrand Associates (Consultants). As reported therein,
there are a number of detailed problems In the current s:ructure of which
the most important are:
(a) the use of in-line deputy chief officers who do not have
clearly-defined line management duties;
(b)  the division of responsibility, between the Mechanical and
Electrical Engineering Department and the Traffic
Department, for management of train crews;
Cc) the absence of a marketing or customer service focus in the
organization of the Traffic Department;
Cd) the poor performance and management control of ancillary
enterprises (catering, road services, marine and workshop
contracting).-
2.        Other problems found include: (i) over centralization of ludget
responsibility; (ii) need for better cash management, financial
forecasting, capital budgeting, management accounting (including traffic
costing); (iii) outdated personnel procedures and poorly developed manpower
planning and training management; (iv) lack of financial and personnel
management skills at the district level; (v) need for iMprovement in
supplies management; (vi) need for more timely management information data
that provides a clearer and more comprehensive picture of-operational and
financial data; (vii) need for better job evaluation procedures and more
appropriate personnel performance appraisals; (viii) need for better
communication between departments and managers within RR and between KR and
Government; (ix) lack of any accident investigations unit and (x) lack of
any business development unit.
3.        Coopers and Lybrand's report, The Headquarters Organizational
Study (HOS) recommended a number of changes to strengtlen Ws management
and correct its horizontal and overly centralized organizational
structure. The changes include: (i) institution of two new functions:
Accident investigation and business development covering the activities of



- 58 -
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 5
corporate and investment planning and marketing, (ii) reduction in the
number of departmental heads reporting directly to the Managing Director by
creating under him two divisional headu, designated Assistant Managing
Directors, each in charge of a group of three departental chiefs: the
Operations Division (Civil and Mechianial Engineers and Traffic) and the
Finance, Supplies and Informtion Division (Supplies, Data Processing,
Financlal Controller).
Other organizational improvements proposed are:
Accounts Department:
(a) further decentralization of budget responsibilities;
(b) Introduction of new procedures and skill, for cash
management, financial forecasting, capital budgeting and
managment accounting (including traffic costing); and
(c) better financial control over supplies expenditure.
Personnel Department:
(a) greater delegation of day-to-day management of personnel to
all functional departments; and
(b)  development of mnpomer planing, establishmnt control and
mntemnt of tra.ning with the object of improving the
workforce productivity and of controlling operating costs.
The revised organization chart is attached.
B.  External Framwwork
4.       KR's status as a parastatal organization has brought Government
involvement in its affairs despite stated policies of autonomy and goals of
self-sufficiency. Some Government policies such as control of tariffs
significantly impede financial recovery. On the other hand, the railway is
so important to Kenya's economy that Government is generally supportive of
KR's needs: the cabinet recently resolved to assume KR's Ugandan
liabilities and assumed earlier bank loans as well. On the whole,
government wants UR to do well and is supportive of its plans for change.
Indeed it has little choice--without the project, the railway's financial
condition is likely to deteriorate rapidly and Government will face having
to fund UR with increasing amounts as its fortunes spiral downward. This
scenario makes Government assistance in helping KR achieve a turnaround all
the more likely.



- 59 -
Annex 3. 1
Page 3 of 5
5        Government assistance in three form  is contemplated as part of
the project: first, financial support during the project period; second,
progress in eliminating or revising existing constraints that undermine
KR's traffic levz1s and financial returns. As for financing, it is
expected that substantially all project costs would be funded by the
Goverrment from external sources. Also, the Government may have to
reschedule existing debt obligations or otherwise make some form of equity
contribution to close a financing gap that will exist even with the project
(although less than without the project) until a turnaround can be
achieved. These aspects have been covered in the MR Corporate Plan which
was approved by the Railway Board of Directors in the Fall of 1986 and
formed the basis for Cabinet approval in Harce 1987.



PROPOSED ORGANISATION STR8UOl
OVERALL ORfANISAlON  - SUMMARY
SOWWJ MAJOR OEPARTMES AND PUN4T1N
1n.I
MAAOs OMIOTOWG
MAA0 OIRSTOR
MASOUS 811111010141                                         ASSISTANTANAYIL IN   UCO
LAUIXtANl   |                                |  ^|"t^"T ~~~~FA A. UIPPLE|
OCFUMNAIO    YN IOWiRMATI DIVIN
.    I   _  ____ -II -R                                                      _____._,___l__ 
CHEF CtVL       CHIEF MEIIANIUA   CW TtAme                       FnAuM            CHE K"l          DAT PROCX|lNO                CHE PROEL
aNRi            a IEUCTRK:^       VUAJAER                       CCCTIR0INt        DEPARtU          MIANAER                      MANAGER
Cm.L                              TRAFfi                         1I4U              UPPLES          DATA PROCIUWIO               PERSONNEL AND
ENESU4 NGINEERIIING   FRONiWI                              DPARTMENT                               DPRW4                         DIIRTO
CEPANlENT       ODP               YRUflC              .            A O tETART      _PARTME_T D_PA__   _R_T_        .              PAMTMENAT
* ItIUU £     * Cenirl         * Op                            Molhtlo *ebml *                      PtIw e g  evk
* EpftlNF   * T  S ^   * t^t                 fiCCO           ~~       ~      ~~~* *|   Ol@ *                DeweI@f  * f EM
lehe         Wbehp                                 .                        *  ..
. aOpetaeA h1u control    *                                                                 _                     u
S.rv4uee S      AC.etmII,g      * **~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Opualtene ~    ~      ~     ~      P
* USIdNhiUflE*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



PROPOSED OROANISATION STRUCTURE
SUMMARY SHOWING 'OFF-LINE' UNITS AND FUNCTIONS
THE
UCARD
MANAGING DIRECTon's
OfFICE
MtANAGING 0DInECTOR
DEPUTY MANAGINO
DIRECTOR
COMMISSIONER                                               .
OF POLICE __________________
CORPORATION                         COMMANDANT                   CHIEF OF                     HEAD OF BUSINESS
SECRETARY                    POLICIE COMMANDANT                  INTERNAL AUDIT               DEVELOPMENT
HEAD OFt                                                          INTERNAL AUDIT
LEGAL SERVICES               * Ralway$ Polke                      DEPARTMENT                  * C@ipirito PPlamno
* kwesIment planing 
* SecuuIasluI  Ito                                                Sy.ms
iha lowrd                                                       CompUance                   * Ma&ketkh
* Legsl srvices                                                   speial       *                Pubs _  .alpoe
_____________________ ~~~~~~~~~In weatlgalloes
ASSISTANT                                                                                                        ASSISTANT
MANAGING DIRECTOR                                                                                                MANAClG DIECTOR
(F__ _ aneo Stws and Wwmalb@
FINANCIE. SUPPLIES AND
OPERATIONS DIVISION                                                                                              NFORMATION OMSION
ACCIDENTS
INVESTIGATIONS UNIT
eceioenfl Ofsipbn 
(OPERATING DEPARTMENTS)         * pe  c*  to opa ta(FINANCL SUPPIES                                                                          P n
procedures                                                                          AN  DATA PROCESSIN        5
DEPARTMENTS)          CA
NOT   0ChISI Of IAISIAGI Audio WOUld fissue fh. fif%$ le .upugl dIesipolyl Ishe Solidg isompIe.                                     EATN
the o041U-how wood M,e bowe S wefns'.sa Ilhip of lbs,lh     h.isqt moesemb   mlk6I.
tihsssGe. $vvifee.. M hmek.BgIm Dolvilossi - hki. le bmasd.au by 001e0 mm 
t) Pdlor C6m§Pdam4 It als o*3836111oe  1 lo Cemmi.elo,e of Ponts, We losem



- 62 -
Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 19
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COPNNT
The proposed Project has three main purposes as outlined below:
Details of project components related to the external frmevork (I-A) are
discussed In Annezx 3.1; details of the remainin project components are
contained in the following page.
I.     Institutional Deeloont
A.  Etl Prwrk (detaLs Annex 3.1)
I. Organizational Structure
1. Corporate    a t
2. Operatiol   n        t
3. Huma Resources
II.   Motive PavOr
A. Locomotive Availability Incr-e
S. Workshop Restructuring
III. Operational Improvements
A. Traffic Management
B. Permanent Way Efficiency



- 63 -
Anne 3.2
Page 2 of 19
1. Zntiteti.npi Develogmt - Technical A90istanC
I. 1 Chorpo     .nge" ma
Stf Months                   Oblectives
Program Ciordinator                        Assist Membing Dlrector and Seior Maagment Team -
Is lmplemtimg reeemaadtaem of orgnizational
developmen e  to coordinate Tehiacal Assisdnce
program.
Generl mnaer                      24       To implem    receomndstions for the creation of
(Finmace Supplies                          Fi_nace, Supplle  ad informetl-n Division. To
.and Informtion)                            provide merm  ffoctive _e9agent control of the-s
funcbion  an  impro, qality. To train successor.
SumireO Devlopmet                 24       To dewolep/mneg _ uSinsc Dbelopent Departm nt
Manaer                                     To lntrtdme/aeiataim effectlve planning procedures
In mC and to del- lenp term mrketing strategies.
To trin succrs.
Chief Aceldents Xnpectow          24       T* establih an Accident investigation  nit. To
review an  revine proeeduree for accldet
lnveelgstieosand to train stf In Investigation
techniquee en provide feedback for improvements in
mainteneoItng procedures.
Manag nt informtion Aviser    S            To set up a Management lnforetmon System for top and
middl  maagemt leves an train staf In the
-pi hp of Wh  ystem.
Studies: Suburbe Services         S        Econom  sa techical feasibillty of operation of
rol s uburban er *     --s  in Neirobi Are.
catories Sevisl                   2        Revie of Ca  ria m ervi_ ,_manaogment procedures,
businewn ~Feast bi ITty7
Road Servic                       2          evwiew of road servics, eonomic and busie
f._sibilIty



- 64 -
Annex 3.2
S. 2  aoeratlonal M ao et
Staff months Obl ectve
Management Accounting Advisr         24        To aesist Financ Dpartmet In doevloping management
acconting procedures (including traffic accounting).
To train  taff in as_  procedur. To f  miliarize line
mnageors with purpos and um  of manag1ment accounts.
Worksbop Costing Advisor              9        To develop appropriate Worshop costing procdures and
to train staff In their application to debvlop
appropriate change in policies for outside custoers.
Traffic Costing Advisor               6        To develop appropriate traffic costing procedures and
train taff in their application.
Re-va l. of Asseto Speciallet         6        To re-eva lute current asseot and to establisl  a system
for periodic re-evaluation and to train staff.
Traffic Costing & Compensation         4       Study undertaken In advance of proJect effctiwvenesr to
provide basis for compensation paYments from the
Government to IKR.
UPUPES ADVISORY TEAM
Stock Costrol Advisor                          A sistance in Implementing reorganization and Improved
Procurement Adviser                            procedure  for stock control. purchnaing, and for
Sres Management Adviser                        stores mnagmnt at headquarters and In the districts.
Supplise Training Specialist                   Development of training strateg, appropriate curricula,
an training of staft.
Software Deelpt. I Support            46       To _sist the Deprtusit In making most effective use
of a_ computer hardware and io omting timetables for
further syste_  devlopment e.g. management 7nforeetion.
- mangnt information
wagon control
- mnagaet accounting
- personnel records



- 65 -
Annex 3 2
Page 4of 19
B.3. HUMAN RESOURCES
Railway Training School
Description of the prolect:
To provide the following additional and improved facilities at the
Railway Training School:
(a)     the conversion of the Mount Kilimanjaro Hostel building to
-provide a Management Training Center. The Center would
include 24 single bedrooms, offices, syndicate rooms and a
classroom:
(b)     the construction of a Training Facilities Center
containing a library, workroom, reprographic room,
conference/lecture room, audio-visual unit/projection room
and a small cinema. The Center would provide a resource
for the Management Training Center and the existing
teaching activities of the School;
(c)     the rehabilitation of existing workshops and classrooms to
improve teaching facilities;
(d)     improvements in student accommodation;
(e)     construction of additional staff accommodation;
(f)     new equipment from (a), (b) and (c):
This project has been developed as one of the important
recommendations of the Training Requirements Study (TRS). General
improvement in facilities and equipment is important if the recommended
development of more appropriate curricula is to bring maximum benefits.
The development of in-house management training facilities has been
recommended after consideration of a number of alternatives. The planned
development in modes (based on existing buildings) could be integrated with
larger regional facilities if these are built, as planned by the Union of
African Railways. The TRS consultants have prepared outline plans for the
regional center in addition to the project recommended here.
Anticipated benefits
The improvement in facilities would provide the necessary
environment for more effective teaching. (The STAP includes extensive



-66-
Annex 3.2
Page 5 of 19
technical assistance to revise curricula and upgrade teaching skills).
Development of technical and management skills is essential if KRC is to
become more efficient and competitive.
Imlementation
It is likely that design and construction of components (a), (b)
and (c) would be undertaken by outside contractors (supervised by the Civil
Engineering Department). Item. (c) and (d) could be undertaken using KRC.'s
own manpower. Staff at the school and appropriate technical assistance
personnel should be closely involved in developing detailed design and in
agreeing final construction schedules so as to cause minimum disruption to
existing teaching.



- 67 -
Lane 8.2
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S llm beurs
KRC Personnel and Administration Deartment
Staff months Objectives
1.   E
hanpowr Plwning Adviser               24        To assist in developing systematic manpo r planning
procedres and to d velop manpower planning skills
throughout XRC.
Persomnl M"b. Trrg. Adviser           12        To advise the Chief Personnel Mnager on doevloping
and implementing n-w personnel menagmoent procodures.
To amist in training personnel in use of ne
procedures with particular *phr is on districts.
_mpowr Infltion Specialist             6        Assisting dpartment to Improve personnel records.
Carry out feosibi ity study for dewelopmnt of
eoepeterized mnpowr informtion system.
11. lUADID SCHOOL
Dtroater of Studies                   24        Managment of ctrriculm  dewelopment, lmpror met in
academic standard.
HNed of got. Trg. Canter              24        Dovelop mt of m_nagMwnt training oenter, carriculum
development, trainlng of man_agmt trainrs.
Curriculm  Development Nd             9         Crriculum dwelopmnt in I electrical and mech nical
Graduate E.g. Trng. Specialists                 engineering training, trff ic training nd locomotive
driving.
Job Evaluation Te_m                   is        To evaluate jobs in different departmnts



- 68 -
Annex 3.2
Page 7 or 1s
II. MOTtVE POWER
A. Availability Increase
Recent Locomotive Purchases
The ODA assisted Consultants study of Motive Power and Operations,
recommended the purchase of 10 new locomotives of the same type as the 26
existing 93 class to cope with the traffic demand projected for 1987. KR
has, with US Export-Import Bank financing, contracted for the delivery of
10-GE locomotives in 1987. An improved version of the class 93, they are
to be designated Class 94.
Though the project envisages a lower traffic growth than foreseen
in the Consultant's study, these new locomotives will assist KR in
(a)    overtaking the backlog of General overhaul of the Class 93
which has accumulated over the last three years. In
1986187 the backlog will amount to 14 locomotives, of which
6 have already been stabled in workshop as it is no longer
prudent to keep them running without incurring the risk of
irretriveable damage to the engineltraction gear.  In the
period 1987188-1990191, the remaining 12 locomotives will
become due for general overhaul. In 1986, this series
encountered traction motor bearing problems as a result of
which the haulage capacity had to be reduced by about 16%.
Maintenance in this regard will also have repercussions on
fleet availability.
(b)    halt the decline and loss of valuable freight traffic to
the roads and reinforce the marketing technical assistance
team's efforts to develop business strategies based on an
adequate and reliable motive power fleet.
87 Class
Dde to problems relating to the break up of the East African
Railways and subsequent shortages of foreign exchange for essential spare
parts, many locomotives of this type have reached a very poor state of
maintenance. Five locomotives were successfully rehabilitated in 1984-85
with ODA assistance, and a further three are being undertaken under the
maintenance and budget for 1985. This proposal provides for a further 5 to
be rehabilitated in 1988. These locomotives are the only main-line
locomotives with an axle-loading suitable for the Nakuru-Kisumu and Konza-
Kajiado-Magadi branch lines. It is also proposed to rehabilitate ten-71
Class locomotives. These light axle engines are the only ones sLiitable for



- 69 -
Annex 3.2
Page 8 of 19
operation on the subsidiary branch lines, having track standard lower than
the arterial Kisumu Branch line or the Magadi Industrial Branch.
Anticipated Benefits
Rehabilitation of these locomotives is necessary to.cater for the
increase in traffic w.st of Nairobi and on branch lines, consequent on the
introduction of the 94 class locomotives.
Implementatioa
If orders .for the material required for the 87 class are placed by
mid-87, delivery would be anticipated within six months. Work would be
carried out in the Nairobi workshops using existing staff. Technical
assistance of two staff, preferably mechanically trained, from GEC (UK)
wi3l be required for two years to assist and train staff in workshops and
depots.
For the 71 class locomotives a further study is to be made with
ODA assistance of the technical feasibility costs and benefits of
rehabilitation. Depending on the study to be undertaken in 1987 a decision
will be taken on the exact number of locomotives to be rehabilitated (10 or
less). If technically feasible without trial units, the entire lot of 10
can be rehabilitated by 1991.
II. MOTIVE POWER
B. Workshop Restructurint
The availability of the whole fleet of 147 line locomotives was
about 56 percent in 1986, and that of the fleet of 62 shunting locomotives
about 71 percent.
In order to achieve a target availability of 65-75 percent for all
locomotives, a number of improvements are proposed for the main workshops
and the diesel depots, as follows:
Improvements to Changamwe diesel depot
Improvements to Nairobi diesel depot
Conversion of Kisumu steam shed to diesel operations
Nairobi workshops - provision of a diesel electric test stand
Nairobi workshops - provision of an engine test bed for diesel
hydraulic locomotives
Nairobi workshop alterations



70                                Annex 3.2
Page 9 of 19
Purchase of additional spare assemblies for unit exchange..
These projects should result in an improvement in line locomotive
availability from 56 percent to 65 percent over a period of about three
years. The above scheme are briefly described in the following:
-      The Chanxamwe Depot is the base heavy maintenance
installation for the class 93 locomotives. It lacks heavy
lift and washing facilities and a locomotive test stand.
The spare parts and oil storage and office space are
inadequate. The building and ground facilities have thus
to.be extended and new equipment provided.
-      Nairobi Diesel Depot handles the turnaround of main line
locomotives. The maintenance of shunters and routine
servicing of coaching stock, specially the 74 newly
acquired coaches. Being an old steam it has been
inadequately adapted for Diesel operations, which the
present scheme seeks to remedy by remodelling and
supplementing the existing facilities.
-       sKisumu Locomotive Depot services diesel shunters and the
turnaround of main line locomotives. The shed, an old
steam depot, is structurally in poor shape and not
weatherproof. The structure is to be refurbishbed and a
new fuelling point installed to avoid shnu 9ing locomotive
visits to Nakuru for fueling.
-      Nairobi Workshops  is the main center for overhaul and
repair of all diesel locomotives as well as wagons and
carriages. The scheme for restructuring of the Diesel
maintenance and repair facilities falls into three
categories:
(a)    the provision of test beds (and dynamometers) for diesel-
electric and diesel hydraulic locomotives.
(b)    spare assemblies (such as bogies, enquires, turbo-charges,
air compressors etc) for unit exchange in the maintenance
flow line to reduce the time spent for overhaul in the
workshops.
(c)    changes in layout to enable adoption of the flow-line
method of overhaul/repairs.
Finally some supplementary equipment is to be provided in the
respective parts of the workshop to remove production bottlenecks. This
involves the acquisition of 3 battery charges for the electrical shops;
machines for testing Swedish coach alternators: Electrode drying oven in
the welding shop; pipe bending machine for wagon brake piping.



- 71 -                            Annex 3.2
±rage iu or 19
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
WORKSHOP ESThUCTURING
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
TEC%NICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
STAFF-      OBJECTIVES
MONTHS
A. WORKSHOPS ADVISORY TEAM
Maintenance Adviser                 42       Assessment of unit exchange spares
requirements. Preparation of tender
documents for procurement under
project 2.7
Implementation of improved workshop
and depot management procedures aiid
structures. Training of local
staff. Coordination of total
technical assistance program in
the Department.
Production Planning Adviser         36       Development and implementation of
improvea production department
procedures. Training of local
staff.
Qoality Control and Production      24       Development of quality control
Methods Adviser                              standards and quality control-
department. Train local quality
control staff. Advise on production
methods..
Training Specialists                24       Establishment of Works Training
Unit. Training of trainers.
Development or in-service training
courses. Coordination with Railway
Training School.



- 72 -
Annex 3.2
Page 11 of 19
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
WORKSHOP RESTRUCTURING
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
STAFF-     OBJECTIVES
MONTHS
B. SPECIALIST LOCOMOTIVE
MAINTENANCE ADVISERS
To supervise rehabilitation and
major maintenance programs on
specific locomotives. To assist in
training staff and upgrading depot
maintenance programs. Specialists
responsible for supervision of
procurement of spares for their
specific programs.
a) 93 Class Mechanical Adviser      12
b) 87/71 Class Mechanical and       36(4)
Electrical Advisers (two
people)
Trade Testing Specialists       24        To revise trade testing procedures
and train staff in their application.



73 -                        Annex 3.2
Page 12 of 19
III  OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
A. Traffic Manatement
Projects to reduce delays to traffic
At present, significant traffic delays occur because of:
-   inadequate fuelling facilities, ces lack of such facilities at
strategic locations
-   lack of dry sand at servicing points, necessary for locomotive
adhesion under adverse conditions.
Improvement in these facilities will increase the hours available
for traffic duties and reduce the line lost by trains slipping on adverse
gradients.
A brief description of the schemes follows:
-   Fuelling Facilities: New in-yard fuelling facilities are
required at Mombasa (high level), Kiperu (Malindi Port) and
Voi to avoid shunting locomotive transit to Changamwe Depot
for fuelling purposes. This practice is wasteful of
locomotive time and needlessly blocks line capacity. At Voi,
the project will replace the equipment hitherto loaned from
the Esso Company; at Nakuru and Eldoret new ground storage
tanks are required to be built and connected to the fuelling
points to release the tank vagons presently used for storage.
- Sand drying installations at Kajiado, Sagara and Eldoret
locomotive depots. At present the sand replenished on
locodiotives, for improving adhesion on heavy gradients during
wet weather or due to oil spillage on the track, is nor
properly dried, causing wheel slip, which not only results in
loss of running time but potentially carries a high risk of
rail damage on steeply graded sections. Sand drying equipment
and facilities will remedy the situation at the three
important depots located in areas serving heavily graded
sections of the line.
- Air brake test equiPment is to be provided in locomotive,
carriage and wagon examination depots to enable vehicle brakes
to be tested before release for attachment to trains.
Basically, the existing air compressors need replacement.
- Restint rooms construction at Mtito Andei. At present all
trains operating between Nairobi and Mombasa carry relief
cr'uw in special attached cabooses as the journey is well in
excess of the maximum permitted shift hours. The crew changes
invariably occur at the mid-point of the journey--at Mtito
Ande d This practice, not being conducive to good operations,
is to be changed by providing static rest rooms at those
points where change-over crews can be sheltered.



- 74 -
Annex 3.2
Page 13 of 19
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
TRAFFIC HANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREHENTS
STAFF-
T!PE OF ASSISTANCE                MONTHS    OVERALL OBJECTIVES
Operations and Planning Adviser   30         Assistance in revision of working
timtable and operations planning
procedures, aud in creating an
Operations Division at the
Corporate Management level.
Cwm.ercial Adviser                  8        Assistance in implementing
reorganization of coimercial
section. Training of commercial
staff. Review of commercial
procedures.



-75-
Annex 3.2
Page 14 of 19
A. TRAFFIC MANAGEKENT
Proiect Description
Purchs"e of 30 tallow tank wagons (20 units to be acquired
complete and 10 in knock-down condition for assembly in KR workshops)
Present Position and Proiect Obiective
KR has 51 tallow tank bogie wagons, at which th, availability is
35 (671). 46 of the 51 vagons are for the exclusive use of the East
African Industries for transport of palm oil from the coast and imported
tallow as required. 6,680 and 5,413 tonnes of tallow were handled at
Mombasa Port in 1984 and 1985 respectively. The 1986 tonnage is about
6,000 tonnes, 302 of the cio wdity moves by road and the balance by rail.
The marketing strategy is to attract 902, if not all, this high yield
traffic on to rail in the coming years: a market survey carried out In May
1986 has projected an 8S annual growth in the next four years to 1990
(13,200 tonnesiannum in that yer).
As the East African Industries are the principal users of palm oil
and tallow, KR is investigating the possibility of the single user, either
wholly owning the new wagons or sharing their cost in equal proportions so
as to m4ni4ise the risk to KR of the additional investment in wagon stock.
B. PERMANENT WAY EFFICIENCY
Description of Proiect
Purchase of 30 ballast bopper wagons.
Present Position
The former East African Railways (EAR) had a fleet of ballast
hopper wagons, for use b7 the railway civil engineering department. This
fleet was built in 1925. Following the break-up of the EAR, only five of
these wagons remained In Kenya, and, in consequence, most ballast now has
to be transported in low sided open wagons and emptied manually. In
addition to the time lost by manual emptying, bal-last cannot be
conveniently placed between the rails, resulting In further manual
handling.
Properly designed ballast wagons are required vhich can be
discharged by gravity between and outside the rails as required.
Anticipated Benefits
The project will result in a reduction in line possession tin by
the Civil Engineer Departmnt for ballast placing. This will be of major
benefit to the railway when the major track relaying program gets underway.



- 76 -
Annex 3.2
Page 15 of 19
Implementation
Delivery of the wagons would be anticipated in one shipment,
approximately twelve months from the placing of a contract. Delivery would
be either of completed wagons or of .wagons in knocked-down condition for
local assembly.



- 77              ~           Annex 3.2
Page 16 of 19
C. PROJECTS RELATING TO RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE
Mobile Flash Butt Welder
Description of Proiect      -
To provide a new mobile flash-butt welding plant for production of
long-welded rails.
Present Position
Considerable quantities of new rails have been delivered to KRC
under the existing IBRD loan, with the objective of replacing old rail and
improving track by installing continuously welded rail in place of the
older form of track with bolted joints. To enable work on the main line to
proceed in parallel with work on the Kisumu line, an additional flash butt
welding plant is urgently required.
Anticipated Benefits
The additional machine will accelerate the delayed track program,
which will result in improved track standards and reduced maintenance
costs.
Implementation
The machine should be acquired by overseas contract, with the
contractor undertaking comiissioning and training of KRC operating and
maintenance staff.
Telephone Exchanges/VHF Radio-Telephone
a) Telephone ExchanRes
Pending the conclusion of the Telecommunication Study, a
l4m4ted expansion of exchanges at key stations west of Nairobi
is envisaged.
b) UHF Radio
The objective is to equip shunting locomotives with radios in
order to-better control their deployment and utilization in the
two principal operational areas of Mombasa and Nairobi, where
an extensive network of lines and sidings exists. The total
coverage will be of the order of lOkm. radius from base
stations. Approximately 10 locomotives are proposed to be
equipped with mobile transceivers :i each of the two areas,
power being derived from the locomotive batteries.



- 78 -
Annex 3.2
Page 17 of 19
D. RE-SURYEY OF THE MAU VIADKCTS
Deserlition of the Prolect
A re-survey of the viaduct& on. the Nakuru-Kisuu line, to
establish whether they can be strengthened to accapt 93 Class locomotives.
Following * survoy and str ngthening work carried out in 1974, it
was decided that the viaducts could accept 15 units of RA2 loading,
sufficient to allow locomotives of Classes 62,71172 and 87, but
insufficient for Class 92 and 93 locomotives.
Anticipated Benefits
This line is about to be relaid with 80 lb. rail which is
sufficiently strong to accept 92 and 93 Class locomotives. As a long term
project, further str egthening of thase viaducts to accept a high overload
is likely to be a nacessary complementary measure. This would ensble the
87 Class locomotives to be phased out at tha end of their working life in
the mid-1990's and replaced by the standard m-in line locomotive (93 Class
of equivalent). This would result in savings in maintenance corts,
reductions in spare parts holdings, and better locomotive utilization.
Implementation
It is suggested that the Cosulting Engineer who undertook the
survey in 1974 be engaged to carry out the re-survey exercise recommended.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
category                    Staff Months           Objectives
Consulting Engineer              5                 Re-survey of viaducts.



79                             Annex 3.2
Page-To of 19
E. STUDY OF SIGNALLING AND TELECOMMUICATIONS
Descriition of the Proiect
Improvements to the signalLing In the Nairobi-Imbakaei complez and
tc the telecaanications between Nairobi-MalabalNskuru-Kisumu are to be
studied.
The Nairobi-lbekasi areas 1a the hub of the enyan Railway,
contaning the Nairobi main station, a marshalling yard,, sidng serving
the Central Workshops and Industrial unitse, a branch i to Thika off
Nakadara and the Container Depot at Embakasi.  Makadara and smbakasi
stations have double-wire signalling and lie sections are block instrument
controlled. The remaining nauerous tracks and sidinp are operated by
ground fraeso, movements being affected by telophone ezchanged private
numbers. Assistant Station Nester. san each control point. A route-relay
system could be too expewive for the level of traffic handled prescntly
(and anticipated in the not-too-distant future). The study is to determine
what lses expansive stage-built schmes can be devised to reduce Ititial
and final costs,, maxminse productivity and benefits at each stage and
muni-ise dependence on imports of spare parts for maintenance.
Nairobi-MNmbas. section has a recently Installed conventional
cable system. XZ's long-term objective is to replace the rest of the open
vire land lines on the rusa line, Nalrobi-Malsba, and the key branch line,
Nakuru-Xisnun, by a  ore reliable tele amicatiou system for all study
circuits, including train block working. The objective is to determin the
lest-cost solution for this facility--a composite optic-fibrelcopper cable
or a Radio Relay System. The studies will be ODM-funded, would require
about 12 staff-months, and can be completed In siz months from start in
1987.



- 80 -
Annex 3.2
Page 19-of 19
RENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
III. PERMANENT WAY EFFICIENCY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
CATEGORY                        STAFF-       OBJECTIVES
MONTHS
Principal Signal and               24      - To establish Signals and
Telecomnmmications Engineer                  Telecommunications Section in the
Department, to provide overall
management of the investment
program and development of main-
tenance skills. To develop
signalling investment strategy. To
train the sections staff and a
successor
Telecommunications Advisor          12       To establish maintenance systems
for new telecommunications system.
Signalling and                      12       To determine the optlinm least-cost
Telec riunniations Study                     stage built solutions for signalling
in the Nairobi-Embakasi area and
telecomunnications for Nairobi-
M&laba:Nakuru-Kisumu.



- 81 -
Annex 3.3
page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Locomotive Requirements
1.       KR has been marginally short of locomotives.  On the one hand,
past availability has been affected by (i) initial design and manufacturing
defects; (ii) lack of continuity in flow of spare parts; and
(iii) techaological incapacity to cope with diesel maintenance systems.
This has been one of the principal causes of loss of traffic to other
modes. On the other hand, in the face of declinin traffic and low
availability, operational demands have exerted mounting pressures for
excessive utilization of the available units of the most reliable type, the
Class 93, by skipping or curtailing of preventive maintenance schedules.
2.       Ten new locomotives have been contracted for delivery in 1987.
These locomotives, upgraded versions of the Class 93 and to be designated
Class 94, will assist KR in bridging the gap in motive power serviceable
holdings caused by (a) the stabling of locomotives in the period in the
period 1986/87 to 1987188 pending the inflow of spares, and (b) the major
overhauls in workshops during the interval 1988189 to 1990191. Of the 87
Class locomotives five units have been rehabilitated and are performing
well. Another five units are to be similarly rehabilitated in the project
period. These locomotives are to be deployed almost exclusively on the
Nakuzu-Kisumu branch line for Uganda traffic, where track conditions do not
permit the higher axle load Class 92 or 93s.



- 82 -
Annex3.3
page 2 of 2
MAINLINE LOCODOTIVE OUTPUT--MITR IMPROVED PERFORMANCE 1990191
Availa            Nr in       Not In   Ansu-1     NTCM       Fleet out-
bility    Nr.    passenger  freight   km        /locolyr.   put- NTKM
Kr.  Z          in use  service    use       (000)    (million)   (billions)
1983 1984 1985
Class 93 GE
26     70.5      18.3       4        14.3     145         90.7     1.29  -    -
26     69.7      18.1       4        14.1     164         83.2     -    1.17 -
26     71.0      18.0       4        14.0     161         79.5     -    -    1.11
Class 92 MLW
15     37.6       5.6      -          5.6     107         6C.4     0.34 -    -
15     55.3       8.3       -         8.3     107         60.4     -    0.50 -
15     53.0       8.0       -         8.0     116         57.0     -    -    0.45
Class 87 EE
35     50.0      17.5       6        11.5     107         40.3     0.46 -    -
35     44.9      15.7       6         9.7     107         37.5     -    0.36 -
35     43.4      15.1       6         9.1     115         34.0     -    -    0.30
TOTAL FREIGHT HAULED                                               2.09 2.03 1.86
OUTPUT CAPACITY: Before spares input 1988189
After spares input   1992
1988189      1992
Class 93
26     55        14.3      4         10.3     120        68.0      0.70      -
26     65        16.8      4         12.8     120         70.0     -         0.90
Class 92
15     36         5.4      -          -       107        57.0      0.31      -
15     51         7.7      -          -       107        58.0      -         0.30
Class 87
35     39        13.7       6         7.7     100        34.0      0.26      -
35     42        14.8       6         8.8     100         34.0     -         0.30
Class 94 (Coimissioned 1987)
10     79         7.9      -          7.9     120        80.0      0.63      -
10     75         7.5      -          7.5     120        80.0      -         0.60
TOTAL FREIGHT HAULED                                               1.90      2.25



- 83 -
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 1
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES
Actual                         Tartet
1983     1984     1985       1988189    1990     1991
1. Locomotive availability (Z)
Mainline Class 94                -        -         -                   90        90
93 (GE)        70.4     69.4      71.0                   70       75
92 (MLW)       32.6     59.9      53.0                   60       65
87 (EE)        50.0     44.9      43.4                   45       50
Transfer Duty Class 62         62.4     68.7      67.9                  65        75
Shunters                       71.3     68.5     67.9                   60        75
2. Locomotive reliability, km per failure per unit available
Class 94                                                  50,000    50,000   50,000
Class 93                   16,400   13,669   13,708       14,000    17,600   19,000
Class 92                    3,211    4,067    4,537        6,500     8,000    8,000
Class 87                    7,755    5,452   10,480        6,500     9,000   10,000
3. Locomotive utilization per unit available (000 km)
Class 94                                                     120       120       120
Class 93                      145      164       161         120       120       120
Class 92                      107      106       116         107       107       107
Class 87                      107      107       115         107       100       100
4. Wagons availability (2)        89.3     88.4      83.0        92        93        94
Wagon km/wagon day             47.8     56.0      65.3        48        60        65
Turnaround general uses
(days)                      15.8      15.7     16.7         13        12       12
Tank (POL)--days               14.4     13.0      12.9        12        11        10
Average loadtloaded wagon
(tons)                       16.1     15.8     14.6         16.0      16.0     16.5
Productivity/wagon available/
year (000 ton km)           189      184       176         190       190       190
5. Freight Traffic
Net ton km. (billions)          2.1      2.0       1.9         2.3       2.5       2.6
6. Staff (employees)
at year-end             22,287   22,364   23,066        22,600    21,900   21,600
7. Working ratio                  82.6     77.8     92.2         80        70        70
(1989:75)
8. Current ratio                   4.0      6.3       6.8         2.0       2.5       2.5
9. Debt/equity ratio              24.0     43.7     55.2         55.0      55.0      55.0



- 84 -
KENYA SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 2
Project Cost Estimates
Z       Z
Foreign        Foreign  Base
Local       Total   Exchange Costs
---million Ksh---
Institutional Development
Corporate Management               5.8  29.7  35.5         842    6%
Operational Management             5.8  19.8  25.6         77%    4%
11.6  49.5  61.1        81Z   10Z
Hlman Resources
Management and Teaching            5.0  16.5  21.5         77Z    41
Building and workshop             13.2  19.8  33.0         60Z    51
18.2  36.3  54.5        67%    9Z
Motive Power
Depots Improvements               13.2  11.6  24.8         47Z    4%
Testing Equipment                  3.3  16.5  19.8         83S    31
Spares and Assemblies             26.4 250.8 277.2         90%   46%
Management and Training            8.3  34.6  42.9         81%    7Z
51.2 313.5 364.7        86Z   601
Tra fic Management
Fuelling, Sand drying
and Compressors                  5.2   4.9  10.1        49%    2%
Planning Advisors                  1.7   8.3  10.0         83%    2%
Tallow Wagons                      4.7  16.5  21.2         78Z    3%
11.6  29.7  41.3        72%    7%
Permanent Way
Ballast Hopper Wagons              9.8  34.7  44.5         78Z    71
Mobile Welder                      3.3  16.5  19.8         83%    3%
VEF Radiotelephone                 1.7   3.3   5.0         66%    1Z
Studies                            1.7   6.6   8.3        80%    1Z
Telecommunications Advisors        1.7   5.0   6.7         75Z    1S
18.2  66.0  84.2        78Z   14Z
Base Costs       110.8 495.0 605.8         32Z  1001
09-Mar-87-



- 85 -
KENYA                               ANNEX 3.5
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT                    Page 2 of 2
TEOHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMNIlY
Source . funding
WDA      IDA      TOTAL
A. INSTITUTONAL DEVELOPMENT                         staff months
Al Corporate Management
Progrm coordinator                         3S                  3O
General Managor for
Finance/Suppi iee/Informmtion                        24        24
Business Development Manager                         24        24
Chief Accident. Inmpector                  24                  24
Manag_ement Intoration Adviser               6                  6
Subtotal 66        48      le
A2 Operatio nal Managemnt
Management Accounting Adviser               24                 24
Workshop Coating Adviser                     9                  9
Traffic Costing Adviser                      6                  6
Supplie  Advisory Team                      as                 as
Software support                            J6                 36
Subtotal 106                les
AS Huan Resourc
Personnel Departmnt
Manpower Planning Adviser                            24        24
Personnel Managoent Training Adviser                 12        12
Manpow r Information Specialist                       6         6
Training School
Director of Studies                                  24        24
Head of Managemnt Training Center                    24        24
Curriculum Development Adviser.                     9g         96
Subtotal          16 1e    i
B. MOTIVE POWER
B1 Workshop Reetructuring
Maintenance Adviser                                  42        42
Production Planning Adviser                         3a         36
Quality Control Adviser                              24        24
Training Specialist                                  24        24
Maintenance Specialiat  9a cl-ss  1/                 12        12
87/71 clan              36                as
Trade Testing SpoSlirets                     24                24
Subtotal   66      138      198
C. OPERATIONS IROVEMENT
Cl Traffic Management
Operations and Planning Adviser              30                Be
ComercIal Adviser                             8                 6
Subtotal   38                as
C2 Prmanent Way Efficiency
Telecowmunications and Signal Eng.           24                24
telecoemunications Adviser                   12                12
Subtotal  36                 36
D. STWIES
Meet evlu ation                                       6         6
Job Evaluation Review                                          Is 15
Suburban Traffic Study                                8         8
Catering Study                                        2         2
Road Service Study                                    2         2
Softwar support                                      12        12
Signalling and Telecoemunaeations Study      12
Survey of viaducte                                    6         6
Traffic Costing and Compenstion  2/          4                  4
Subbotal  16       S4        70
TOTAL     815      425      740
1/ For clan 62 and 92 clam assIstance is provided for by KfW/CIDA (36+48 MM)
2/ Thl study will be undertaken lo advance of project effectiveness.



8 86 -
Annex 3.6
KENYA
SECON  RATEI PROJECT
IMIPLEMENTATION SCHEWL
1  1263    1234    1234   10341
Technical Assistance124_                                     34 1 4
swt llf|t ff  _L   
2.Workshop staff                                        -    _ _   .
3.Other staff                               _ _ _1
Training Cetr Foci Ii
I.Pr>epae bid doumnt
2.avite blds,.valat,                  _ 
place orders                                     _ _ _ 
- I.Construct and equip
Central Workshop and
T.Pro  re bid docoumen
2.avi to blda,ev l uto,
plne orders
3.O-lilery of equlip t
4.Cea tuft, lustll I
equl _t,coiaaon
X.rpr list secfieatl4on-_. 
2.Iiwit offere,analyse,
plac  orders
3.Delivery of material
Lee rehabilitation
I..P_repr bid documents_ 
2.Xnvito bids, evaluate,
pine orders
3.De iwir of eWipment
.Css tIrctminstal                                _
equipmsnt,mee_io tn
Track loprOv _m nts
i7Baip-per wagrms
-.Propere bid documents
b.Invito bids,evaluation
place orders
c.Deli iry
2.8ridg  survey
*.Preperr specifetion en_
b.Prepollfy,shorl ji t
consitents
c.Invit offers,
f Inlize orders
d.Suavey
Flnsh-Butt Wolder
I.Propere bid cb;uet_
2.nvilts bide,eveluste,
place orders
2.1 -Xtll,train staff,
lcesionse
I/ Program coordinator already in position beginning 1987
2J Operations Nanagorlrdvisor continues for full 6 menthe period



-87 -                          Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 1
KENYA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
ODA       IDA       KR         Total
--US$ millions incl. contingencies--
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Al. Corporate Management: Tech. Asst.       0.8       1.0       0.1
A2. Operational Management: Tech. Asst.    1.4        1.0       0.2
A3. Human Resources:
Tecbnical Assistance                  -         2.5       0.2
Training school bldg. & equip.,
incl. workshop                      _         1.0       0.6
Subtotal                              2.2       4.5       1.1        7.8
a. MOTIVE POWER
B1. Availability Increase:
Loco rehabilitation (87171)           4.7       -         0.5
Spares                                -        15.6       -
B2. Workshop restructuring:
Additional equipment remodeling
Changamwe, Kisumu, Nairobi vkshps  -          3.6       1.0
Technical Assistance                  0.8       1.9       -
Subtotal                              5.5      21.1       1.5      28.1
C. OPERATIONS IMPROVEMENT
Cl. Traffic Management:
Technical Assistance                  0.6       -         0.1
Fueling, sand-drying, airbrake
test facilities                     -         0.8       0.5
Tallow wagon--3D                      1.3       -         0.3
C2. Permanent Way Efficiency:
Technical Assistance                  0.2                 0.2
Mobile Flash Butt Welder              -         1.2       0.1
Ballast Hopper wagons (30)            3.0       -         0.2
UHF Radio/Telephone excharSes         0.5       -         0.1
Survey viaducts                       -         0.4       0.1
Subtotal                              5.6       2.4       1.6       9 6
Total                             13.3      28.0       4.2      45.5
*The project is exemptfromtaxes,anddutiesm                          ==
*The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



- 88 -
Annex 4.1
KEA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Traffic
KR's freight traffic is dominated by a few major commodities, the
10 most important accounting for about three quarters of total traffic.
Mombasa and Nairobi are clearly the most important traffic generators.
Moreover, most of the trade through the port of Mombasa ultimately
originAtes in or is destined for Nairobi and points beyond. A sizeable
part of this is transit traffic for the landlocked countries of Central
Africa.
The distance from Mombasa to Nairobi is 534 km and to the Uganda
border 1085 km. KR is therefore well placed to carry most of the long
distance bulk traffic in Kenya and the transit traffic to the landlocked
countries. The containerization of trade through Mombasa is proceeding
rapidly and this should also increase the railway's competitive advantage
in a range of commodities for which it was traditionally less well placed.
However, despite the railway's advantages there has been
practically no rorwth in KR's freight traffic during the past 5 years with
traffic fluctuating around 4 million tonnes per annum, indicating rapid
growth in long distance road haulage. Even though there are no reliable
estimAtes of the distribution of traffic between road and rail, it is clear
that the railway's share of long distance freight transport has continued
to fall in recent years.
The consultants for the Motive Power Study carried out detailed
forecasts for future rail traffic on the basis of 40 commodity groups and
taking into consideration total transport demand by original and
destination and the raill/road modal split. Their maxi-mu traffic forecast
covering the next five year period, assumes the fastest possible rate of
improvement in operating efficiency of the railway and a high economic
growth rate (5.5%). Under this scenario, traffic would increase at a rate
of about 7% per annum and reach a total of 5.9 million tonnes in 1989 (3.3
billion tonne kan). Their target traffic forecast, assumes a 'realistic'
improvement in operating efficiency and a lower economic growth rate (4.5%)
yielding a traffic growth of about 4X and a total of 4.9 million tonnes in
1989-90 (2.7 billion tonne km).
As part of the preparation of the KR Corporate Plan, another set
of projections of potential traffic were made. Those for freight were
based on reviews of a number of important freight shippers indicating their
use of rail services. A summary is included in Annex 402. The potential
volume could increase to almost 5.0 million tons by 1990/91 of which about
4.0 million tons were accounted for by 9 commodities. Average length of
haul was expected to increase from about 574 km to over 600 km. Total
volume of passengers was also expected to increase but more modestly from
1.9 million passengers in 1985 to 2.3 million in 1990191, in this set of
projections.



- 89 -
Future traffic on KR will be determined by many factors which can
be grouped into those that are external to KR (G.D.P. growth, foreign
trade, Government policy with respect to road transport) and those that are
internal (availability of appropriate capacity, operational efficiency,
marketing efforts). The external factors would generally favor rapid
growth in transp;,rt demand and improvement in the railway's share in total
traffic. GDP is projected to grow within a range of 3.5 - 5.01 in the
medium term and Government is redirecting its policies towards fast export
growth. Moreover, Government's transport policies are aimed at creating
the conditions for the railway to play its proper role in long distance
transport through road user charges which reflect the costs of road usage
and continuation of the program to enforce vehicle axle wight limits.
Given a favorable external environment and the fact that there is
considerable unsatisfied demand (evidenced by a declining share of rail
transport despite significantly lower rail tariffs) the critical factors
determining future rail traffic are internal to KR. The traffic growth
assumptions for the economic evaluation of the project as a whole are based
on a combination of improved performance (higher availability of
locomotives and streamlined operations) made possible through the project
and as a result of the acquisition of additional class 93 locomotives. As
a result, in the 'with the projecto case traffic would grow from 1.86
billion tonne km in 1985 to 2.17 billion tonne km in 1990191, or more
conservatively than by either the Motive Power Study or the Corporate Plan
assessments. Without the project, and the class 93 locomotives, it is
assumed that effective capacity will continue to decline principally as a
result of deteriorating locomotive availability. Traffic would decline at
the same rase as between 1980 and 1985 or about 4S p.a. reaching 1.45
billion tonne km in 1990191. With the new class 93 locomotives, but without
the proposed project, the capacity in 1990/91 would be about the same as in
1985 and continue to decline. (See Annex 4.4 for details).
Proiect Benefits
The project was designed as an integrated package of short term
measures and investments to help KR to play its proper role as the least
cost long distance carrier and thereby reduced overall transport system
costs. With the project KR's effective capacity will increase and it will
carry higher volumes of traffic at a lower cost to the economy. The
benefits consist therefore primarily In savings in transport costs i.e. the
difference between road transport costs and rail costs for the traffic that
will be able to move by rail instead of by road. These cost differences
translate to a large extent in the tariffs and will accrue in a first round
to the shippers who choose rail transport instead of road. Because of the
competitive condition in the transport industry, the savings will be passed
on to the various economic operator and the economy in general will
benefit. The benefits will not only accrue to the Kenyan economy but also
to Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and Eastern Zaire to the extent that these
countries will be able to ship goods by rail rather than by road.
By counting as benefits from the project, the full difference
between rail and road transport costs for the additional traffic that RR
will be able to carry because of the project there is some overestimation
of real savings to the economy on account of two factors: (i) transit tines



- 90 -
by rail are somewhat higher than by road; (ii) for those goods (a small
percentage) which do not move from siding to siding delivery costs have to
be added to rail costs and the transport cost saving is correspondingly
reduced. It is conaidered that this overestimation is marginal and
compensated for by -che savings discussed below which are not included in
the calculation.
More efficient operation-c resulting from the project will not only
permit KR to carry larger volumes of traffic but will also lower rail unit
costs across the board. The project will therefore also reduce rail
transport costs for the traffic which would have moved by rail in any
event. This saving will accrue in the first place to the railway itself
and contribute to its financial health. In the long run, the entire
economy should benefit from more efficient and lower cost railway
operations. This benefit is not included in the estimate of the overall
ERR.
Transport Costs
Long haul vehicle operating costs in economic terms (early 1986
prices) are estimated at K.Sh 0.87/ton/km.  Road user costs (early 1986
prices) are estimated at K.Sh 0.081tonlkm. The cost of transport by road
is therefore, K.Sh 0.95/ton/km.
Long run variable costs of transport by rail are estimated at K.Sh
0.571tonlkm.  The saving of transport by rail is therefore, K.Sh
o0.38/tonlkm.
Proiect Costs
Except for the spare parts, the costs of all components and
elements of the package have been included as project costs. For spare
parts, a total of K.Sh.296 million is included, representing the cost of
establishment of an adequate initial stock and a system of starlard
exchange. The remainder or the spare parts are consumables and form part
of the operating cost of the railway.
Economic Evaluation
The project evaluation period is taken as 15 years and no residual
values are assumed. The ERR is 19.5Z. A summary is included in Annex 4.3.
Sensitivity tests are given in Annex 4.5.
Components Analysis
The project components are very interdependent and form part of a
well-focussed minimum short-term package of measures and investments. This
is particularly the case for the two major components of the project: the
consulting services for improved operations and institutional development
and the measures to increase motive power. Given the condition and
availability of its locomotive fleet, K.R. is unable to make the transition
to improved maintenance practices and improved operational performance (to
attract and keep new customers) without reducing its effective capacity.
This is because under current operating conditions there is no excess



- 91 -
capacity, so much so that the class 93 locomotives are being excessively
overworked (in terms of net tonne km per locomotive). An injection of
additional capacity, by procurement of new locomotives w-s therefore
essential to eliminate overworking and introduce strict maintenance
schedules without reducing effective capacity and risking further loss of
customer loyalty. At the same time pr_i.enting a continued decline of the
availability of older locomotives is equally essential, and primarily
achievable by an assured supply of spare parts. Once the necessary
improvements have been made in both maintenance procedures and quality of
service, the additional capacity will permit KR to accommodate an increased
share of the potential demand for rail transport.
While some improvements in overall performance can be obtained
without changes in motive power, it would be more difficult to achieve and
would be at the expense of significant long term loss of customers. The
ERR of such an amputated package would be lower than that of the total
package as estimated.
Other investments which merit special consideration includes the
procurement of 30 ballast hopper wagons. The hopper wagon solution for
ballasting is much more efficient than the current system using open wagons
because unloading is more than twice as fast and hence the restricted live
occupation time of the line will be more effectively utilized and the
number of trains required for the operation much reduced.  The hopper wagon
solution will require 5 class 62 locomotives and 30 wagons as against 10
locomotives and 100 wagons for the open wagon system. This would represent
a saving of US$4.9 million (K.Sh 78 million) in capital costs. However, as
a conservative estimate, only half of the releAsed wagons would instead be
used in revenue traffic. In addition, there will be savings of 170
labourers at an annual cost of US$0.16 million (K.Sh 2.6 m) and of variable
train operating costs of US$0.10 million (K.Sh 1.6 m) per annum. The
locomotives, wagons, and labourers which are released as a result of the
acquisition of the hopper wagons, however, will not be immediately utilized
elsewhere in the system and cannot be counted in their entirely as benefits
in the first year. They would be absorbed, however, over a period of 4
years through growth in traffic and/or replacement of equipment which
becomes life expired or of retiring labourers. On this basis, the ERR of
the investment is 19%.
The mobile flash butt welder is included in the project as
replacement for the welding plant which was financed under the First
Railway Project as part of the track renewal program. The plant was
severely damaged during transpart making it inoperable. An insurance claim
is pending, the outcome of which is uncertain but could include monetary
compensation, replacement of the equipment or its repair. Considering that
all the other elements of the track renewal program have been procured and
that it is unlikely that the insurance litigation will be settled in the
near future a start must be made with track renewal. Indeed every year
that the track renewal program is delayed, its considerable cost savings
are being foregone. The track maintenance and accident cost savings alone
were estimated at some US$6.3 million per annum in 1980 or some US$9.5
million (K Sh152 million) in 1985 prices. The investment of US$1.2 million
(K Sh 19 million) is therefore clearly justified as it would pay back
itself several times in a single year.



- 92 -
In the circumstances, acquisition of a mobile welding plant is
preferable to a static one because of its great flexibility in use. It can
be employed in both the static and mobile modes: in the static mode for
preparin- short welded rail panels in a depot, which after transport to
site and laid in the track are then welded into long sections by the same
machine to form a continuous welded track. Alternatively, the machine can
weld rails which have been unloaded alongside the track into short-welded
panels and again weld them into continuous lengths after laying the track.
Ordinarily, with static units, the site joining is done by thermit welding,
an exothermic chemical process. However, flash butt site welds, finished
by the mobile machine, are super-or in weld strength and fatigue life to
thermit welds. If the mobile machine is used exclusively for site joints
to form continuous welded track, it functions as a complement to a static
plant making the short-track panels.



- 93 -
c_^e  4.2
KENYA
Second Railway Proiect
Potential Rail Freight Traffic by Sector
(thousand: tonnes per annum)
Market                        Actual
Sector                        Traffic              Potential Traffic
1985                1986          1991
Grains                         569                  975          1295
Oils/Bitumen                   516                  585           645
Fertilizers                    297                  295           355
Cement & L4mestone             188                  460           530
Soda                           226                  250           260
Fluorapar                       59                   60            90
Containers                     148                  340           460
Non-containerized              230                  450           450
Imports
Sugar                          294                  360           325
Paper                           53                   55            75
Coffee                         254                  300           440
Tea                             37                   55            95
Subtotal                      2871                 4185          4995
Other                          322                  320           350
Total Freight                 3193                 4505          5345
Source: KR Corporate Plan



-- 94 -
KENYA - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT        ANNEX 4.3
Sumary of costs and benefits
K.Sh.millions
Year               costs    benefits       net
1987                 22                -22
1988                103        0      -103
1989                154        0   -'-154
1990.               160.       5      -155
1991                125       62       -63
1992                 83  -  126         43
1993                 51      192       141
1994                 19      192       173
1995-    -            0      192       192
1996                  0      192       192
1997                         192       192
1998                         192       192
1999                         192       192
2000                         192       192
2001                         192       192
2002                         192       192
2003                         192       192
2004                  -      192       192
rate of return           20Z
March 1987



- 95 -
- KENYA  - SECOND RAIMLAY PROJECT                        ANNEX 4.4
Details of economic analysis - assumptions
Year              Frcight traffic potential, million net-ton km          Traffic gain
without new class 93       without with proposed       through project
investinglocomotives       project  project           million net-ton km
1987              1711      148              1869      1869
1988              1643      2S3              1896      1898
1989              1577      357              1934     1934
1996              1614      483              1997     2311                 14
1991              1453      476              1929     2392                163
1899              1396      469              1864     2196                332
1993              1339      462              1801     2386                W S
19"4              lZ5S    4U5                1740     2386                G68
Year              Benefit calculation
Traffic gain      Saving
million           K.Sh.0.38
net-ton km        per ton km
1987
1988                            K.Sh.million
1989
199                 14                 5
i191               163                62
1292               332               126
1993                65               192
1994                            per year
to 2064                                 192
January 1987



- 96 -
ANE  4.5
KENYA- SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
SensitWitj' tests
asc  --
21.02
U~  1&-X?'
14.O 4a r
12.CO
11M.00                  
17-
G O&     :0.35            1      1h       1.1     1.15     t2
Benefits
0   CttLts        +  C3ts+1a           =       >  Ccb+2SU



S U D A N.'                  7                          :
V  <9  ._._.'' sE T H I 0  P I A
7              *                                            yS 2  + T           j~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  /       / |
To Addi Ababa      
M  rs3 bit
UGANDA   /wi
./~~~~~~i
Mr flGON 
K,Io?e  0              ~~~~~~~~Moa Go\     SOMALIA
./~~~~~~~~~~oo



tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t rfXX  
9 |    ':P              4, f) (Kericho                                                   EME 3 U/ SW/R155n 
_.1.a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ ,.,( M'\\
Isida~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'                    ~~~~~                         ~ ~~~~~~~ry   .nyu Af                                                                                  ak
'N, ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ N
5%*                      biKon oda                                                                               \
N~~~~~~~~N
K E N Y A                        ts N                                                                                                           (
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT  ToA,u    ',\                                                                                                                                     h>->.rsMr
-r,---A     EXISTING AAIL*AY1 \,\^S-@#h*i
65   ATIONlnAL CAPITAL                                             '>t  
o        I' TIES .nTI lOANSs                                             \                  t\        .                            tl,btir4i              r~;w;ewr c.t F  Ho
-  PN IRIIj ADS                                                                     ol,                                                             '-f  '''''
-           PAR AARY  AN*D  SEcOSIJARS   VOADS                                                                                                        T;l ;_____/_______.______
--      -K  E N TY  IOI',TAP                                                                                                                            tSUOA   
To usm  IN.   ~        N
3                                                                                   \.\        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   MO4BASA  'I -,|X                fh ''SOMM
>    ~        ~ ~~~~ O  O *o   _s       '20     140                                                                     \     {i1        ,^^
V.155                                                                 ,.                                                                       /        A
0   CITIES  -                                               ______                             IV  ToAG IN*.%~                                          I%,AISDAIA 
-  TRUPiK ROADS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    6 5151                                        ____________________






