Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 1820 KE
                       Development Credit Agreement
                         (Second Railway Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 24, 1987
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 1820 KE
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration of the
United Kingdom intend to enter into a memorandum of understanding (the ODA
Memorandum of Understanding) for the purpose of making available goods and
services to the Borrower with a value of about eight million pounds sterling
(L8,000,000) (the ODA Grant) to assist in financing the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in the ODA Memorandum of Understanding;
      (C)    the Project will be carried out by Kenya Railways Corporation
(KRC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to KRC the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and KRC;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and KRC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and KRC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "KRC" means Kenya Railways Corporation, a corporation
established and existing pursuant to the Kenya Railways Corporation Act,
1978 (No. I of 1978), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (d)   "KSh" means Kenya shillings, the Borrower's currency; and
      (e)   "FY" means the Borrower's and KRC's fiscal year, beginning July
1 and ending June 30.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,800,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Page  3
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15,
commencing August 15, 1997, and ending February 15, 2037. Each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2007, shall be one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. KRC is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause KRC to
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the
obligations of KRC therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable KRC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   make the proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time to
                  time to Category (3) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
                  Agreement, available to KRC on the same terms as the
                  Borrower receives the proceeds; and
            (ii)  relend the proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time to
                  time to Categories (1) and (2) of paragraph 1 of Schedule
                  1 of this Agreement, to KRC under a subsidiary loan
                  agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
                  KRC, under terms and conditions which shall have been
                  approved by the Association which shall include, inter
                  alia, that:
                  (A)   the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an
                        interest rate of not less than 8.8 percent per
                        annum, for a term of twenty (20) years, including
                        a grace period not exceeding four (4) years; and
                  (B)   KRC shall bear the risk resulting from fluctuations
                        in the value of currencies relent to it.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
Page  4
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by KRC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                              Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. During implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall
review and discuss with the Association any future investments in the
railway subsector, which it proposes to undertake.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   facilitate the prompt procurement by KRC of spare parts and
equipment required for its operations; and
      (b)   exempt all goods and services, procured out of the proceeds of
the Credit, from all taxes and duties.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   annually review, with the Association and KRC, payments to meet
losses, if any, incurred by KRC in the operation of noncommercially viable
services; and
      (b)   promptly thereafter arrange the necessary compensation payments
to KRC.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   KRC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement;
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that KRC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (c)   The Kenya Railways Corporation Act, 1978, shall have been
amended or repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
KRC to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (d)    The Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment of KRC or for the suspension of its operations; and
      (e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right
                  of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the ODA Grant
                  made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project
                  shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                  providing therefor;
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
                  and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
Page  5
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days (60)
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Association has been notified that all conditions precedent
to the initial disbursement of the ODA Grant, other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
      (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and KRC; and
      (c)   the General Manager (Finance, Supplies and Information),
Maintenance Adviser, and Operations and Planning Adviser shall have been
appointed.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by KRC and is legally binding upon KRC in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and KRC and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and KRC in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the minister for the time being responsible for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi
            Kenya
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINANCE                       22003
                  Nairobi                       FOREIGN NAIROBI
      For the Association:
Page  6
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                  By /s/ Sospeter 0. Mageto
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Civil works                1,940,000        100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
                                            80% of local
                                            expenditures
(2)     Equipment, spare          13,100,000        100% of foreign
    parts and mate-                                 and 80% of local
    rials                                   expenditures
(3)     Consultants'               3,730,000        100% of foreign
    services                                expenditures and
                                            80% of local
                                            expenditures
(4)      Unallocated               3,030,000
    TOTAL21,800,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  7
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
 3.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 400,000, may be made in respect
of Category (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date, but after June 1, 1987.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist KRC in: (i) achieving needed
organizational restructuring and more commercially oriented managerial
skills; and (ii) revitalizing its operating performance.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A    Institutional Development
1.  Improvements to KRC's organizational structure at the corporate level
and to its general managerial systems and procedures through the provision
of technical assistance.
2.  Reorientation of KRC's management and introduction of modern managerial
skills at divisional and operational levels through the provision of
technical assistance.
3.  Improvement of personnel management, job evaluation procedures, manpower
planning, management of training activities and curricula through the
provision of technical assistance.
4.  Improvement of the Railways Training Center through:
    (a)   expansion of existing facilities at the Management Training
Center;
    (b)   construction of a training facilities center;
    (c)   rehabilitation of some existing workshops and classrooms;
    (d)   upgrading of dormitories for artisans and construction of
additional staff accommodation;  and (e) provision of new teaching
equipment.
Part B    Motive Power
1.  (a)   Rehabilitation of about five class 87, ten class 71 and class 72
locomotives; and (b) provision of spare parts.
2.  Restructuring of layout and work flow at KRC's central workshop in
Nairobi, and improving and refurbishing diesel depots at Changamwe, Nairobi
and Kisumu.
3.  Acquisition and utilization of test stands and dynamometers.
4.  Improvement of KRC's Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Department
staff's ability to improve workflows, overcome technological difficulties,
take inventory and manage the use of spare parts more effectively, by the
provision of technical assistance and training.
Part C    Operational Improvements
1.  Improvement of KRC's general operations, train planning and control, and
the lowering of train running times by the provision of technical assistance
Page  8
to KRC's Traffic Department.
2.  Improvement of train crew productivity and locomotive turnaround
through: (a) the construction of "running rooms" at Mtito Andei, provision
of fueling facilities in Mombasa, Kipevu and Voi, new ground fuel storage
tanks at Nakuru and Eldoret, and sand-drying facilities at Kajiado, Sagana
and Eldoret depots; (b) replacement of old compressors for air-brake testing
equipment; and (c) acquisition and utilization of ballast wagons, end
loaders, tallow wagons, a mobile butt welder, UHF radios for shunting
locomotives and telephone exchanges.
3.  Improvement in the overall management of the investment program and
development of maintenance skills in the telecommunications department,
through the provision of technical assistance.
4.  Carrying out of studies on: (a) ancillary services, including catering,
suburban and road services; (b) the viaducts on the Nakuru-Kisumu line; and
(c) improvements to the signalling in the Nairobi-Embakasi complex, and to
the telecommunications links between Nairobi-Malaba and Nakuru-Kisumu.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
