CREDIT NUMBER 1820 KE
Project Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Dated                           .2$, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1820 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           4doZA-/, 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION (KRC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one
million   eight   hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 21,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement but only on condition that KRC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and KRC, the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to KRC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS KRC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) KRC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-2-
with  appropriate   administrative,  financial, engineering   and
railway management practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, KRC shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agraement between the Association and KRC.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. KRC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9,,04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. KRC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, KRC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) KRC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   KRC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by KRC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KRC
Section 3.01. KRC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and railway management practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. KRC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and railway management practices.
Section 3.03. KRC shall take out and maintain with respons-
ible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KRC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b) KRC shall:
(i) have   its   accounts  and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements), for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than seven months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-4-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
KRC shhall from time to time take all such measures within its
power   (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments   to  the
structure or levels of its railway tariffs), as shall be required
to enable KRC to meet, as of its fiscal year beginning July 1,
1988, a working ratio of not more than 80%, in FY1989 and FY1990
a working ratio of not more than 75% and, in FY1991 and
thereafter, a working ratio of not more than 70%. For the purpose
of this Section:
(a) the term "working ratio" means the total working
expenses divided by the total operating revenues;
(b)  the term "total working expenses means the sum of all
operating costs and administrative expenses of KRC related to its
railway operations, including adequate maintenance and taxes (if
any) but excluding depreciation and interest, and other charges
on debt; and
(c)  the term "total operating revenues" means the sum of
gross revenues from all sources accruing to KRC from its railway
operations.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, KRC shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 2.0:1 in FY1988 and FY1989, and
2.5:1 thereafter.
(b) Before March in each of its fiscal years, KRC shall, on
the basis of forccasts prepared by KRC and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that KRC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for KRC's fiscal years
covered by such review, KRC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the


﻿-5-
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "current assets" means cash, all assets
which could, in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, includ-
ing accounts receivable, marketable securities,
inventories and pre-paid expenses properly charge-
able to operating expenses within the next fiscal
year.
(ii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
ties which will become due and payable within
twelve months, such as customer advances, debt
service requirements, taxes, and dividends.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(iv) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation,   obtainable   for   the  purposes   of
servicing such debt or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, KRC shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt, the ratio of debt to equity shall in FY1988 and
thereafter be greater than 1.22:1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of KRC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-6-
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement    or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
specific liabilities.
(iii)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
specific liabilities.
(iv) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation,   obtainable   for   the  purposes   of
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. KRC shall, by March 31 of each year, prepare,
for review by the Borrower and the Association, an analysis of
its expected and past performance against the indicators set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 4.06. Until completion of the Project and without
limitation or restriction upon the obligations of the Borrower
pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, KRC
shall not undertake any investment larger than $500,000 equiva-
lent, not included in this Project and other ongoing development
projects, without the prior consent of the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of KRC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify KRC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or Made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For KRC:
Kenya Railways Corporation
P.O. Box 30121
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                         Telex:
RAILWAYS                             22254
Nairobi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KRC, or by KRC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by the Managing Director of KRC or such other person or persons
as the Board of Directors of KRC shall designate in writing, and
the Managing Director of KRC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa
KENYA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
By/4
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE I
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped together for the purposes of inviting bids.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works for construction of fuelling
and sand-drying facilities and "running-rooms" for the train
crews   may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertized locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association, provided, however, that the aggregate cost of
civil works so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
$800,000.
2.    Proprietary spare parts may be purchased on the basis of
negotiated contracts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 10 -
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist KRC in carrying out the Project, KRC
shall employ consultants and experts, whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   KRC shall, subject to the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement and this Agreement, be responsible for the
overall, coordination, monitoring and supervision of activities
under the Project.
2.   KRC  shall  appoint persons   to  the  technical  assistance
positions and undertake the studies referred to in the Annex to
this Schedule.
3.   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the appointments for the positions referred to in
paragraph I above, except those of Program Coordinator, General
Manager (Finance, Supplies and Information), Maintenance Adviser,
and Operations and Planning Adviser shall be made by no later
than four months after Credit effectiveness.
4.   The qualifications, experience and terms of reference for
all such positions shall be acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 12 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Page 1 of 2
PART A OF THE PROJECT - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Post                                         Staff Months
Corporate Management:
(i) Program Coordinator                              30
(ii) General Manager (Finance, Supplies
and Information)              24
(iii) Business Development Manager                     24
(iv)  Chief Accidents Inspector                       24
(v) Management Information Adviser                    6
Operational Management:
(i) Management Accounting Adviser                    24
(ii) Workshop Costing Adviser                          9
(iii) Traffic Costing Adviser                           6
(iv)  Supplies Advisory Team                          30
(v)  Software Support                                36
Human Resources
Personnel Department:
(i) Manpower Planning Adviser                        24
(ii) Personnel Management Training Adviser            12
(iii) Manpower Information Specialist                   6
Training School:
(i) Director of Studies                              24
(ii) Head of Management Training Center               24
(iii)  Curriculum Development Advisers                 96


﻿- 13 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Page 2 of 2
PART B OF THE PROJECT - MOTIVE POWER
Post                                             Staff Months
Workshop Restructuring:
(i) Maintenance Adviser                             42
(ii) Production Planning Adviser                     36
(iii) Quality Control Adviser                         24
(iv) Training Specialist                             24
(v) Maintenance Specialists: 93 Class               12
87/71 Class              36
(vi) Trade Testing Specialists                       24
PART C OF THE PROJECT - OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
Post                                            Staff Months
Traffic Management:
(i) Operations and Planning Adviser                 30
(ii) Commercial Adviser                               8
Permanent Way Efficiency:
(i) Telecommunications and Signalling Engineer      24
(ii) Telecommunications Adviser                      12
Studies:
(i) Asset Evaluation                                 6
(ii) Job Evaluation Review                           18
(iii) Suburban Traffic Study                           8
(iv) Catering Stridy                                  2
(v) Road Service Study                               2
(vi) Software Support                                12
(vii) Signalling and Telecommunications Study         12
(viii) Survey of Viaducts                               5
(ix)  -raffic Costing and Compensation                4


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
KRC shall measure its performance against the following
indicators:
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Target
FY1988;89   FY1990   FY1991
1.   Locomotive
Availability (%)
Main Line Class 94                           90       90
93 (GE)                     70       75
92 (MLW)                    60       65
87 (EE)                     45       50
Transfer Duty Class  62                          65       75
Shunters                                         60       75
2.   Locomotive Reliability
Kms per failure per unit
Class 94              50,000   50,000   501000
93              14,000   17,600   19,000
92               6,500    8,000    8,000
87               6,500    9,000   10,000
3.   Locomotive
Utilization
(OOOkms) Class 94                 120     120      120
93                 120     120      120
92                 107     107      107
87                 107     100      100
4.   Wagons Avail-                       92      93       94
ability (%)
Wagon km/Wagon day                  48      60        65
Turnaround General
uses(days)                        13       12       12
Tank (POL) (days)                   12      11        10
Average load/loaded
wagon (tons)                    16.0    16.0     16.5
Productivity per
available wagon
unit per year
(000 tonkm)                      190     190      190


﻿- 15 -
Target
FY1988;89   FY1990   FY1991
5.   Freight traffic net
net ton kms (billions)          2.3      2.5     2.6
6.   Number of staff
at year-end                    22,600   21,900  21,600
71I


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


