Document of
The World B3ank
Report No: 22233-GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 175,300,000 (US$220.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
FORA
ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
July 2, 2001
Transport Group
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = Ghanaian Cedis (GHC)
GHC I = US$0.000135823
US$1 = GHC 7,362.5
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        African Development Bank
ADT        Average Daily Traffic
AMISU      Accounting and Management Information Systems Unit
APL        Adaptable Program Lending
BADEA    Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BOT        Build Operate and Transfer
BRRI       Building and Road Research Institute
C&AG       Controller and Accountant General
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDF        Country Development Framework
CFAA       Country Financial and Accountability Assessment
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPPR       Country Portfolio Performance Review
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
DflD       Department for International Development
DFR        Department of Feeder Roads
DUR        Department of Urban Roads
DVLA       Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority
ECOWAS  Economic Community of West African States
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
EOI        Expression of Interest
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
FAD        Financial Administration Decree
FAR        Financial Administration Regulation
FMI        Financial Management Initiative
GHA        Ghana Highway Authority
GOG        Government of Ghana
GPN        General Procurement Notice
HDM        Highway Development and Management Model
HSIP       Highway Sector Improvement Project
IAPSO      Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
(United Nations Development Programme)
[CB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
ILO        International Labor Organization
IMT        Intermediate Means of Transport
IRI        International Roughness Index
JBIC       Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JICA       Japan International Cooperation Agency
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:       Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader        Imogene R. Jensen



KFW        Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
KIA        Kotoka Intemational Airport
KM         Kilometer
MDA        Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MMDU       Metropolitan Municipality District Units
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MRH        Ministry of Roads and Highways
MOTC       Ministry of Transport and Communications
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framewor]k
MTU        Motor Traffic Unit
NFRRMP   National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Govemmental Organization
NMT        Non-Motorized Means of Transport
NPRP       National Priority Roads Program
NPV        Net Present Value
NRSC       National Road Safety Council
ODICT-P   Organizational Development and In-Country Training
OPEC       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PIM        Project Implementation Manual
PMR        Project Management Reports
PPOG       Procurement Policy Oversight Group
PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
PUFMARP Public Financial Management Reform Program
QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
RFP        Request for Proposal
RMRP       Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
RPDC       Road Programme Donors' Coordination
RSDP       Roads Sector Development Program
RTTP       Rural Travel and Transport Program
SBD        Standard Bidding Documents
SIL        Sector Investment Lending
SIP        Sector Investment Program
SME        Small and Medium Size Enterprise
SPN        Specific Procurement Notice
SRFP       Standard Request for Proposals
SSATP      Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy P'rogram
TOR        Terms of Reference
UNDB       United Nations Development Business
VOC        Vehicle Operating Cost
VELD       Vehicle Examination and Licensing Department
VPD        Vehicles per Day






GHANA
ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     3
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                        15
3. Technical                                                                        16
4. Institutional                                                                    16
5. Environmental                                                                    17
6. Social                                                                           18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   20
2. Critical risks                                                                   20



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. Other                                                                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         3 8
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   39
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            62
Annex 11: Environmental and Resettlement/Compensation Framework Summary                  64
Annex 12: Letter of Sector Policy for Ghana's Road Sub-Sector                            67
MAP(S)
IBRD NO. 31121



GHANA
ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTTR.
Date: July 2, 2001                              Team Leader: Inogene R. Jensen
Country Director: Dirk Reinernann - Actg. Program  Sector Manager/Director: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Coordinator for
Project ID: P050623                             Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
I I Loan    [X] Credit    [ I Grant    [I Guarantee   [1 Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 220.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                       Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: up to 0.5%                     Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                          Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                   226.04          0.00        226.04
IDA                                                         88.00        132.00        220.00
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                    20.54         39.36         59.90
ARAB BANK FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN AFRICA                 4.04          7.74         11.78
DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE                 11.66         22.34         34.00
(DANIDA)
BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                        16.39         31.41         47.80
DEVELOPMENT
EUROPEAN COMMISSION (EC)                                    21.25         40.71         61.96
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                           10.35          19.85        30.20
GOV. OF THE NETHERLANDS (EXCEPT FOR                          3.12          5.98          9.10
MOFA/MIN.OF DEV.COOP.)
GERMAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CORPORATION                      0.00          0.50          0.50
JAPAN BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION                    51.45         98.55        150.00
JAPAN INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AGENCY                       3.43          6.57         10.00
KREEDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                             18.14         34.76         52.90
OPEC FUND                                                    2.06          3.94          6.00
OTHER FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                       152.04        109.78        261.82
WEST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (FONDS CEDEAO)                 3.09          5.91          9.00
Total:                                                     631.60        559.40       1191.00



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ROADS & HIGHWAYS
Ghana Highway Authority, Departnent of Feeder Roads, Departrnent of Urban Roads
Address: P.O. Box M. 57, Accra, Ghana
Contact Person: Wr. J.L. Lamptey, Acting Chief Director
Tel: 23321685611              Fax: 233216671 14              Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006
Annual   30.00       50.00      50.00      50.00     40.00
Cumulative   30.00      80.00     130.00     180.00    220.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD FCI.-   U.  D
2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the Ghana Roads Sector Development Program (RSDP) is to achieve
sustainable improvements in the supply and performance of roads and road transport services in a
regionally equitable manner. Sustainabilitv involves physical, financial, as well as environmental aspects
and is closely related to the success of the institutional reformis and institutional strengthening that are part
of the program. Eguitabilitv encompasses geographic disparities largely between the south and the north
(the latter roughly comprising the four northern regions of Brong-Ahafo, Northern Region, Upper West,
and Upper East), disparities of income, disparities between urban and rural areas, and gender inequalities.
Some of the disparities clearly overlap, calling for an integrated approach based on the more fundamental
objectives of poverty alleviation and economic growth. All types of roads are included: trunk roads, feeder
roads, and urban roads. The road works range from routine maintenance to reconstruction. To achieve
better transport services, the program extends beyond road conditions to a variety of road safety measures,
improved environmental practices, better reporting and information systems, etc.
The RSDP presents an integrated approach to road maintenance, construction, and management by the
Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH) and the three road agencies, the Ghana Highway Authority, the
MRH Department of Urban Roads, and the MRH Department of Feeder Roads. The descriptions and
analyses in the present report relate to the program as a whole. Disbursements from the proposed Credit in
support of the program are intended to be made for the implementation of specific projects and actions
within annual RSDP work programs, as agreed to in advance.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators that measure the achievement of the program development objective are:
a. Road network condition mnix improved from 35% good, 45% fair, and 20% poor in 2000 to 70%
good, 20% fair, and not more than 10% poor by 2005.
b. Average travel time between district capitals reduced by at least 15%.
c. Ratio of all road works (Components 1-3) carried out in the 4 northern regions over the grand
total at least maintained over the 4-year period.
d. Percentage of communities within 10 km of a maintainable road increased by 10%.
e. The part of the feeder road network not maintained reduced by half.
f. Compliance with axle load limitations increased by 20%.
g. Number of vehicles inspected annually increased to 80% of total number of vehicles registered.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20185-GH         Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/08/2000
The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board in March
2000. The overarching objective of the CAS is to reduce the incidence of poverty through increased
growth, largely in the agriculture sector, and to create gainful employment opportunities based on a
two-pronged approach: (i) support for policies and programs aimed at more rapid and sustained growth;
and (ii) ensuring social sustainability of programs. Within the investment portfolio the majority of
operations focus on removing key infrastructure bottlenecks, especially in the transport, energy and water
sectors.
-3 -



The overall RSDP will support the CAS in two ways. First, it will increase Ghana's competitiveness in
foreign trade and promote linkages in domestic markets, which are crucial factors for rapid and sustained
growth. These linkages will improve the degree and decrease the cost of access by the poor, and
particularly women, to social services, markets and economic opportunities, thereby contributing to social
sustainability. Second, it will reduce transport costs through maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction
of roads; it will build and utilize local capacity in the public and private sectors; and it will encourage
gender equality in the development of the transport network and of transport services.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Transport Sector Overview.
The transport sector plays a strategic role in the economy of Ghana. It accounts for approximnately 9% of
GDP and generates a significant share of the total budgetary revenues of the Government. The country has
a well developed transportation system consisting of two large deep-water ports that yearly handle about 7
million tons of import and export traffic; a 944 km railway system serving the southem part of the country;
a 40,000 km road network system consisting of 13,433 km of trunk roads, 24,000 km of feeder roads and
over 2,200 km of urban roads; and one international airport and 8 regional airports and airstrips throughout
the country.
Roads are the predominant mode of transportation, currently accounting for 94% of freight and 97% of all
traffic movements in the country. There are no widely available alternatives to roads other than for the
movement of bulk comnodities for export, such as timber, cocoa, bauxite and manganese ore, which are
suited to transport by rail from central collection centers and mining areas to the ports. The railway
network has limited coverage (Accra-Kumasi-Takoradi) and presently operates at low efficiency under
parastatal management. Internal water transport is limited to Lake Volta. The road transport industry,
which is dominated by the private sector, has unrestricted entry and competition is prevalent, but its
efficiency is constrained by the high cost poor roads impose on vehicle operation.
In the past Ghana, and in particular Accra, had a relatively healthy infrastructure base. However, economic
crisis and decline during the 1970s and 1980s, combined with weak institutional capacity, led to a
deterioration in the infrastructure network and its operations. This left transporters and producers without
the ability to expand services to a larger segment of the population and unable to compete effectively in
regional markets.
Since 1990 the Government has deployed, within the framework of projects supported by the Bank and a
number of other donors and international financial institutions, major efforts to remedy deficiencies in the
transport sector. In 1997 GOG reformed its own role and function in the sector, by merging its
involvement in all transport modes into one Ministry, the Ministry of Roads and Transport. At this time
Government also adopted the principle that Government's role should be that of regulating, managing and
monitoring, not of executing, agent. Within this principle, widespread intensification of the involvement of
the private sector has begun in areas previously dominated by Government: port operations, maritirne
trade, and road maintenance. The process of concessioning operations of the railway to the private sector
has also begun. In 2001, the Goverrunent again split roads and transport into two Ministries, the Ministry
of Roads and Highways (MRH) and Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), but the envisaged
role of Government remains the same.
-4 -



The road network is the responsibility of three agencies, all under the oversight of MRH:
The Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) is in charge of the trunk road network (13,433 kin; 5,968
km paved and 7,465 km unpaved), and roads leading through minor towns. GHA is a
semi-autonomous agency, which since mid-1999 has operated under the direction of a Board with
significant private sector representation; its staff are in public employ but outside the civil service.
The Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) is a department of MRH. DFR is in charge of all 24,000
km of feeder roads, and is presently changing from a centralized structure to a decentralized one in
response to Government's decentralization policy, which is to devolve decision-making to district
councils.
* The Department of Urban Roads (DUR) is a department of MRH. DUR is in charge of roads in
seven main urban agglomerations: Accra, Tema, Cape Coast, Sekondi/Takoradi, Kumasi, Tamale,
and Koforidua. Decentralization efforts involve partial devolution of decision-making to municipal
authorities and councils.
Main issues in the Road Sector
Management capacity. The agencies suffer, in varying clegrees, from weak management. GHA, the
largest agency, has installed adequate management systerns and tools, but their application is not
satisfactory. DFR and DUR need to complete on-going development of their systems and insure that they
are adapted to the decentralized configuration of the future. There is a pressing need for an effective,
integrated financial management system for MRH and the three agencies, and for an overall public
procurement code to be established and put to use. These are under development and will provide
important tools for improved management of the sector.
Government arrears. A particular issue that has its origin in the roads sector involves the substantial
sums the Government owes to contractors for road works carried out in the past. Nearly all of these debts
relate to contracts financed entirely by the Government and often awarded without competition.
Elimination of these debts was negotiated in 1995 as a prelude to the start of the Highway Sector
Investment Program (HSIP, Cr. 2858-GH), but the then agreed schedule was not adhered to and the debt
burden continued to rise. By late 1997, the Government had finally halted all directly negotiated
contracting, but on-going contracts combined with interest payments have made the total elimination of
debt from these obligations elusive. The total obligation, including future payment obligations under these
contracts for works contracted but not yet undertaken, is now about cedis 310 billion (US$42 million, or
close to 6 percent of the Government's total annual revenue). Elimination of this problem is a prerequisite
for proper sector management, and agreement on an acceptable solution within a realistic time limit was
therefore a condition of program negotiation. Accordingly, the Government provided a Letter of
Undertaking, signed by the Minister of Finance, which commits Government to the payment of US$33
million by the end of 2001. A time limit for full resolution of the arrears problem, which would permit
orderly completion of the RSDP, is scheduled for the end of 2002.
Road maintenance funding and management One serious issue of the recent past that has shown
improvement is the stability of the funding of road maintenance. Revision of the structure and operations
of the Road Fund was undertaken in 1996. The Fund's revenues now derive from a fuel levy (about 85%),
and various other road related tariffs, such as license fees, road and bridge tolls. Collection and
disbursement of these revenues are outside the purview of the Treasury, and under the authority of the
Road Fund Board, which has a majority of private sector stakeholders. Both revenue collection and
- 5 -



maintenance work programming have improved dramatically over the past three years. As a result, road
condition surveys carried out in 1995, 1997, 1998 and 1999 confirm that the overall deterioration of the
network was halted in 1997/98, and the condition has shown a marked improvement over the last two
years. Some momentum was lost when the actual implementation of an increase in the levy on fuel sales,
enacted in March 2000, was delayed to February 2001, as this caused a shortfall in Road Fund revenue of
about 25% for the year 2000. Projections of Road Fund revenue have similarly been revised downward
from US$220 million to US$210 million over the program period, to reflect the combined effect of the
delay and the recent depreciation in the value of the cedi. While the overall performance of the Road Fund
is impressive, there remains a substantial backlog of maintenance on large segments of the network.
Notably, only about 60% of existing feeder roads are covered by the maintenance program. The issue
remains to insure the stability of Road Fund revenues and operations, and to increase its revenues in step
with the increase in maintenance requirements.
Traffic Safety. On the entire road network, but especially on those parts under the responsibility of the
GHA and the DUR, traffic safety is a very serious problem. Presently, the monetary value of losses due to
road accidents is estimated to account for approximately 2% of GDP. Accident frequency in Ghana is
about ten times the average European level, and there is growing public awareness of the need to take firm
action to curb and mitigate the effects of road accidents.
Government Strategy:
In recent years the Government of Ghana (GOG) has initiated a wide range of new approaches to develop
and improve infrastructure networks and services. Ghana has also become one of the pilot countries for
implementation of the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF). This approach is being applied by
Ghana with its development partners to increase the impact of external resources on poverty reduction. As
part of this effort, a Roads and Transport Strategy within the concept of the CDF was developed (May
2000) by MRH (formerly MRT). This strategy stems from the Government's Road Sector Policy Letter of
February 9, 1996, and is reflected in the Letter of Sector Policy dated March 29, 2001 (Annex 12). This
strategy identifies specific objectives for the transport sector and strategies for dealing with the challenges
and issues in each of the sub-sectors. The main elements of the strategy with respect to roads are:
(i)    Develop in-country capacity for government institutions and the private sector to coordinate
and manage the road network efficiently;
(ii)   Ensure sustainable funding for the road sub-sector program;
(iii)   Base road sub-sector investment decisions on sound socio-economic and environmental
principles that are sustainable.
(iv)   Enhance the operational efficiency of the road network to promote economic growth and the
delivery of social services;
(v)    Reduce gender, regional and socio-economic disparities in access to transport to help achieve
poverty reduction, national integration, unity and stability;
(vi)  Integrate the road network with other modes of transport to promote the development of an
efficient transport system;
(vii)   Develop a comprehensive road safety program to reduce road transport fatalities; and
(viii)  Mitigate the negative environmental and social impact of road related activities.
- 6 -



With this in view, immediate challenges for the three road sector agencies are:
for GHA, to assert strict managerial practices compatible with the new GHA statutes and
structure;
for DFR, to transform its previously centralized situcture and operations to match the decentralized
local government structure and financing;
for DUR, to continue to devolve its planning and operations to the municipal structures in the
towns where it operates.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
As a direct outcome of the Government's sector strategy, the key roads issues to be dealt with through the
RSDP are:
Decentralization: The Government's decentralization plans will have a significant impact on the roads
sector, with immediate effect on feeder roads. The structure of decision-making related to roads in both
urban and rural areas is expected to continue to evolve during the program period. The RSDP is designed
so that MRH and its agencies can respond to and participate in this process. District and Municipal
Assemblies will be increasingly involved in the selection of works and the programming of maintenance.
Poverty alleviation: The roads sector is only now beginning to contribute proactively to the Government's
declared goal of giving first priority to mitigating extreme poverty wherever it exists. This focus will
sharpen through the RSDP period and cause greater focus on extending and maintaining the feeder road
network and upgrading roads in the slum areas of towns. Given that the real impact will only come from
improved transport, the agencies implementing the RSDP will work together with the Rural Travel and
Transport Program (RTTP) to assist with the development of a National Rural Transport Policy, the
deepening of current knowledge of rural transport issues mn Ghana, and the promotion of transport options,
including intermediate means of transport.
Safety: Under the HSIP an environmental and road safety department was created in GHA, but no
significant progress has been made in road safety. Basic elements such as control of truck loading, driver
proficiency, accident reporting and statistics, and rescue services, are all in need of significant
improvement. To address these problems, a comprehensive road safety program will be developed under
the RSDP. Ghana has joined the Global Road Safety Partnership, which will assist in creating the
framework for a partnership between Govermnent at central and local level, and private commerce and
industry. Road safety policies are now under the purview of the recently established National Road Safety
Commission (NRSC), and driver proficiency and vehicle standards fall under the now restructured Driver
and Vehicle Licensing Authority (DVLA). Both of these entities will be strengthened under the RSDP.
Social sustainability and equity: Social assessments have been carried out within the sector on a pilot
basis, but have not been systematically applied. A study focusing on the Socio-economic Impact of Trunk
Road Maintenance was carried out by GHA, which analyzes social impacts more systematically. Under
the RSDP, social impact assessments will be conducted to mitigate negative impacts and maximize benefits
to targeted groups. The program will be designed to be sensitive to gender issues in transport and
maximize gender participation in decision-making in all aspects of program development and
implementation.
-7 -



Environment: A methodology for environmental impact assessments (ElAs) of road investments was
developed under the HSIP for GHA and the resulting EIAs are satisfactory. Similar assessments will be
introduced in a systematic fashion for feeder roads and urban roads under the RSDP. The Environmental
Unit in GHA will be given the lead role in extending this function to DUR and DFR and their respective
networks.
Sector Management and Implementation Capacity: Issues in these areas fall in two broad categories:
those that need to be addressed before the start or in the initial stages of the program, and those that the
program itself will address over time. The first category comprises (i) design and start of a payment plan
to eliminate the arrears problem and isolate it from the RSDP until its final resolution; (ii) establishment of
the expanded environmental and social assessment and mitigation system to cover DUR and DFR in
addition to GHA; (iii) establishment of the reformed financial management system in MRH and its agencies
by transformiing the Accounting and Management Information Systems Unit (AMISU) into a MRH
accounting facility to oversee the accounting and financial management activities of the Ministry's three
road agencies; (iv) agreement between the Government and the donor community on the design of a joint
decision-making process relevant to the RSDP being implemented in accordance with the CDF, and (v)
assignment of staff in MRH and the donor agencies of sufficient number and qualification to make this
process work. The second category covers (i) establishment of the Government procurement code; (ii)
consolidation of the use of existing contract management systems and related monitoring and
decision-making processes; (iii) continuous development of the RSDP management aspects relevant to
Government's decentralization program; and (iv) long-term but less critical issues being addressed through
training programs under the RSDP for MRH, its agencies and the private sector.
Sector programming and analysis: Priority must be given to the establishment of a sound basis for
analysis and programming in the sector. There is a need for comprehensive, but manageable, databases on
the state of roads, which will permit realistic estimates of maintenance, rehabilitation and new investment
needs to be made. To this end, the program will develop a training package, with a focus on upgrading
capacity in existing techniques as well as introducing integrated methods for analysis. Capability for
transport sector monitoring and analysis through the use of geographic information systems (GIS) will be
introduced in both GHA and DUR as appropriate, and HDM-4 will be used for the economic analysis,
together with other appropriate social development criteria.
Human resource development: There is a need to improve the capacity of middle and lower level
technicians in the road agencies, including skills, salary levels and housing conditions. The human
resources aspect of the program is being assessed through the Organizational Development and In-Country
Training (ODICT-P) study and includes (i) an evaluation of training needs of both genders; (ii) an adequate
training plan reflecting these needs; and (iii) proper targeting of technical assistance to include know-how
transfer targets and the design of a follow-up mechanism.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The RSDP is the national program for the entire roads sub-sector over the period 2001 to 2004, executed
by MRH and its two road agencies for feeder roads and urban roads, and GHA. The program has the
following six components, of which IDA would finance elements of components 2 through 6:
Component 1: Routine Maintenance - patching of potholes; light grading; grass cutting; tree and bush
clearing along the roadside; and cleaning of gutters, drains and culverts. It is carried out annually on an
- 8 -



average of 27,250 km of all types of roads.
Component 2: Periodic Maintenance, Minor Rehabilitation and Minor Upgrading - spot improvement;
repair and resurfacing of short stretches of roads; repair of drains, culverts and slopes; regraveling;
resealing; and mninor upgrading of gravel to bituminous roads.
Component 3: Major Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Upgrading - reconstruction of heavily
degraded road sections; upgrading from one surface type to another; placing asphalt concrete overlays; and
repair and construction of bridges, culverts, and other structures.
Component 4: Traffic Management and Safety - strengthening the NRSC and DVLA; developing a
comprehensive road safety strategy and implementation program; and setting standards for safety,
reliability, and efficiency in the transport sector.
Component 5: Institutional Strengthening - policy and institutional reformns (including strengthening of
environmental management, decentralization, development of a national transport strategy encompassing
rural and urban transport, and road safety); studies; training; technical assistance; and provision of
buildings, vehicles and equipment.
Component 6: Program Operation - planning, management, coordination and reporting for the 4-year
road development program by the participating agencies.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Setor         Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
___ __ __ __ __ __ (US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
Routine Maintenance                                 101.37        8.5      0.00       0.0
Periodic Maintenance, Minor                         416.03      34.9      57.50      26.1
Rehabilitation and Minor Upgrading
Major Rehabilitation, Reconstruction                559.20      47.0    119.00       54.1
and Upgrading
Traffic Management and Safety                        11.00       0.9       2.60       1.2
Institutional Strengthening                          55.40       4.7      38.40      17.5
Program Operation                                    48.00       4.0       2.50       1.1
Total Project Costs               1191.00      100.0    220.00     100.0
Front-end fee                   0.00        0.0      0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                 1191.00     100.0    220.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A solid platform of sector policy reforms has been designed. The focus of this program therefore will be to
help institutionalize those reforms. The major institutional, reforms supported by the project will focus on
improving the capacity of MRH and its agencies. Assistance will also be provided to MTC in the areas of
transport policy, regulation and oversight. Key elements include:
Enhancing the capacity for environmental and social mitigation analysis in GHA, and extending it
to DFR and DUR.
Transforming the Accounting and Management Information Systems Unit (AMISU) into an
integrated MRH accounting facility to oversee the accounting and financial management activities
of the Ministry's three road agencies.
Assisting DFR and DUR to implement the Govenmment's mandated policy of decentralization.
-9-



Working with MTC and MRH to develop a sustainable framework for rural transport.
Improving the efficacy of DVLA.
Strengthening NRSC.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
The main benefits of the RSDP will be to improve the productivity and competitiveness of the Ghanaian
economy and, simultaneously, to improve access by the poor to the economy at large. This will be
accomplished through:
(a) improved all-weather access to markets and services (both administrative and social) for a broad
cross-section of the population, providing increased opportunities for poverty reduction and
economic growth;
(b) better farm gate prices for farmers, lower input and consumer prices for the population at large and
greater connectivity between and within regions, leading to fresher produce and more on time
deliveries, making Ghana's products and services more competitive in local and regional markets;
(c) reductions in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and time costs, resulting from improved surface
conditions and riding comfort on the road network, improved geometry, reduced traffic interference
and better safety facilities;
(d) longer road network asset life and more efficient use of public resources in the road sector;
(e) increased employment due to construction and maintenance operations; and indirect benefits due to
access to employment centers and increased tourism;
(f) strengthened management capacity of local contracting firms, and increased opportunities for local
consultants to offer services for studies, auditing, and other activities;
(g) marked improvement in road safety, having a quantifiable benefit in terms of the cost of avoided
accidents;
(h) more efficient sector administration, and improved practices in environmental and social
protection; and
(i) improvements in the efficiency of the use of extemal resources.
Target Population:
The benefits of the improved road network will be spread across all regions in the country, since the
program has identified works and activities in each province. Both commercial and social road users will
benefit from improved road conditions and the introduction of a more sustainable approach to maintenance
of the national priority roads, feeder roads as well as urban roads.
Depressed areas will be particularly targeted for both the feeder roads and urban roads programs. This will
be done by specifically identifying stretches of road to be developed based on a matrix of economic and
social indicators. Project selection criteria have also been designed to insure that investments respond to
declared community needs.
Although the benefits of the road safety program will be translated to the whole population, it is the poor,
who as pedestrians in both urban and rural areas suffer disproportionately from road accidents, who will
benefit most.
- 1 0 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing Agencies:
The program will be coordinated by MRH, which will have the overall responsibility for its management.
Each of the implementing road agencies (GHA, DFR, DUR) will make its own internal management
arrangements and report, in formats established and agreed, to MRH in accordance with procurement and
disbursement arrangements agreed to by the Bank and the GOG. All other components will be managed in
line with Bank conditions. AMISU functions will be integrated into MRH's mainstream functions. In those
areas where expertise is lacking or not fully developed, short-term consulting specialists (management,
engineering, financial, modeling) will be employed to enhance sector performance and project
implementation. Implementation will be based on an Annual Work Program and Budget prepared by each
agency, and consolidated by MRH. A Project Implementation Manual (PIM), finalization of which will be
a condition of Credit effectiveness, has been prepared to provide the necessary guidelines for all
implementing agencies.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
AMISU will be transformed into a MRH accounting facility to oversee all expenditures in the roads sector,
including arrangements for audits, in accordance with systems and procedures acceptable to IDA. It will
work in accordance with the procedures that have been prepared and put in place under the on-going HSIP.
Establishment of the agreed financial management and accounting systems in MRH, GHA, DUR and DFR
will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
New special accounts for the IDA Credit will be opened and maintained in a commercial Bank acceptable
to IDA, managed by the relevant agencies. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will audit the use of all
IDA funds available under the credit, including the IDA special account and the statements of expenditures.
Financial audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
The format and the frequency of periodic reporting are defined in the PIM. The financial/technical audit
system, introduced under the HSIP, will be continued and enhanced under the RSDP to assess the
cost/effectiveness and adherence to agreed work programs for the agencies.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Continuous monitoring, periodic reviews, and mid-term evaluation will be based on predetermined
indicators which will measure inputs, process, outputs and outcomes. Performance and monitoring
indicators are defined in Annex 1. Annual reporting by MRH and its agencies will incorporate a further set
of indicators that were agreed at negotiations and reflected in the PIM. Additional baseline surveys and
monitoring arrangements will be developed in the course of the project, particularly to monitor impacts in
depressed areas. Donor coordination and joint monitoring will continue with monthly meetings between
MRH and the donors involved in Accra, and one annual donor/Government meeting in November of each
year, following the establishment of budget proposals for the following year. The overall project
monitoring and evaluation system will be guided by the Project Design Summnary and the PIM. A
Mid-term Review will be conducted in March/April 2003.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two options were considered for implementation of the program: (i) Sector Investment Lending (SIL), and
(ii) Adaptable Program Lending (APL). Although the proposed program relates closely to the premise of
- 1 1 -



an APL both in concept and duration, the SIL was clhosen because limiting financing to a relatively short,
finite period will allow the major sectoral problem o:f the arrears to be eliminated before long-range flexible
financing is introduced.
Considering the existing and future socio-economic conditions in Ghana, the level of economic development
and poverty, the volume and composition of traffic throughout the country, and the capacity of the existing
infrastructure, the proposed program has been identified as the most cost-effective and appropriate method
of imnproving transport while addressing issues of economic growth and poverty reduction. Technical
standards have been reviewed and economic viability assessed. Feasibility studies for the GHA program
and other preparation documents for both the DFR and DUR programs are available in the project files.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
st   Issue                          f   ~~~~~~~~~LatetSurvso
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Physical Rehabilitation of Trunk Roads First Transport Rehabilitation  S        S
Project (Cr. 1858-GH)
Rehabilitation of Trunk and Feeder    Second Transport             S            S
Roads; Road Fund Reform;         Rehabilitation Project
Introduction of Intermediate     (Cr.2192 .GH)
Technology; Sector Agency Reforns
Feeder Road Rehabilitation;      National Feeder Roads             S            S
Institutional Strengthening      Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (Cr. 23 19-GH)
Upgrading of Main Urban Roads and  Urban Transport Project (Cr.    S            S
Road Networks in Low-Income Areas; 2498-GH)
Institutional Strengthening
Rehabilitation of Trunk and Secondary Highway Sector Investment    S            S
Roads; Consolidation of Road Fund;   Program (Cr. 2858-GH)
Institutional Development and Training
Other development agencies
European Union (EU)               Second lTransport
Infrastructure Program
(TRIP-2)
Cocoa Roads Rehabilitation
Program (Stabex)
BADEA (Co-finance)                TRIP-2
Bunso Anyinam Road
OECF (Co-finance)                 TRP-2
KfW                               Tema-Akosombo Road
Lower Volta Bridge
HSIP
Dutch Aid                         Road Rehabilitation
- 12 -



JICA                              Small Stream Bridge
Rehabilitaion Preject
Trunk Road Rehabilitation
Spanish Aid                       Small Stream Bridge
Rehabilitation Project
DflD                              Small Stream Bridge
Rehabilitation Project
OPEC (Co-finance)                 Urban Transport Project
Coface-AFD                        Interchange Development
AFD                               Rehabilitation of Sekondi and
Tema Municipal Roads
DANIDA                            Takoradi- Agona Junction Road
Kumasi-Konogo Road
Mpraeso-Adawso Road
AfDB                              Tetteh-Quarshie-Mamfe Road
Sogakope-Aflao Road
Anyinam-Kumasi Road
JBIC                              Kumasi Anwiankwanta Road
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The advantages of a participatory design process. Prior to the HSIP, the Bank financed transport
operations in Ghana in various forms: road, urban transport and feeder roads projects; port and railway
projects; and finally, rural roads components under agricultural projects. These projects all attempted, with
some results, to introduce reforms in the transport sub-sectors. The more recent of these completed
projects, plus the on-going HSIP, have provided an opportunity for the Bank to establish a substantive
dialogue with the Government on the major issues in the transport sector. The MRH drew up an overall
strategy for the sector, and developed this into strategic plans for each sub-sector. Acceptance of these
plans by the public and by particular interest groups was obtained through extensive debate in Cabinet,
Parliament, and parliamentary sub-committees, and through outreach activity and stakeholder consultations
by MRH (formerly MRT). In this fashion, agreement has been obtained, for instance, on concessioning of
the railway and on successive increases in the fuel levy for the Road Fund, without disruptive
confrontations. The main lesson learned from this is that although the process is slow, it is both in accord
with Ghanaian tradition, and in the end, probably more effective than a faster but less inclusive process.
The need for donor coordination and consultation. Other donors have been active in the transport
sector. They have participated in program design and co-financing arrangements, often based on their own
sub-sector preferences. During implementation, coordination has sometimes been inadequate leading to
imbalances in the sector program. The practice of regular consultations between donors and MRH, the
annual GOG/donor meeting instituted under the HSIP, and the stakeholder consultations arranged by
MRH, have demonstrated the advantage of continuous contact between all actors and interested parties.
The need for comprehensive sector management support. The emergence of the arrears problem holds
significant lessons for the future. It shows clearly the need for comprehensive road sector management and
transparent reporting. Had those elements been in place, the arrears problem could not have developed.
This consideration is a principal reason behind the external assistance to the roads sector now being
designed on a program rather than a project basis. Meaningful sector-wide management is impossible
- 13 -



without financial discipline at the national Government level.
The importance of accompanying stable maintenance funding with better programming. The positive
experience with the reform of the Road Fund is significant and is incorporated in the design of the program.
The reformed Fund improved revenue-raising immediately. However, the lack of clear work programs
caused a build-up of liquid funds, which were then diverted to other uses, sometimes the payment of
arrears. The lesson is that stable raising of revenue for road maintenance does not in and of itself insure
that the maintenance is done. For this to occur, proper advance work planning and programming must be
present, together with implementation capacity in the private sector and managerial capacity in the
executing agencies.
The need for improved resource allocation criteria. The allocation of resources among sectors, and the
split between new investments and maintenance and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, especially in
the road sub-sector, has not always been based on clearly defined criteria. Factors that need to be taken
into account, in addition to classical economic analysis and environmental and social assessment, include
provision of basic access to roads and transport for the poor as well as to high potential agriculture regions.
Increased use of existing programs, systems and models, including the HDM needs to be encouraged, with
an appropriate training program developed to ensure sufficient expertise is available.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The program enjoys strong support from the borrower, witnessed by the preparation of the progran being
done entirely by MRH and its agencies, in collaboration with MOF and the Road Fund.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Since the Bank's first involvement in the 1960's, its contributions have been regarded as positive catalysts
in the sector, both through direct support of physical works programs, and by its assistance in policy
reforms and institutional strengthening. The country needs continued long-term support in the sector, the
Bank is well placed to provide this, and the Government wishes that the Bank do so. The roads sector is
well suited for the country and its international partners to work together within the CDF, since the practice
of continuous consultation and the perspective ofjoint decision-making have been in place for several
years. Furthermore, the Bank's management of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
(SSATP), a multi-donor collaborative effort in policy reform in the transport sector, will permit the
Government to avail itself of assistance in sector policy analysis and reform as well as interaction with, and
benefits from, sector experiences in other countries.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
A detailed economic analysis was conducted for all of the program's main civil works components to be
implemented in the first year, as well as a part of the overall maintenance program over a 3-year program
period. The rest will undergo analysis during the project period.
For the Priority Trunk Road rehabilitation and maintenance program, the HDM-3 model was used for
each of the homogeneous road sections defined, based on a network-wide survey of road characteristics and
- 14 -



traffic. A total of 1,078 km of road were examined. For t1iose that have not been defined, criteria have
been developed for acceptance under the program, including use of HDM-4 and a discount rate of 12%.
For the Feeder Roads Program the HDM model was not used, and instead a model was adapted to these
low volume roads, which included transport cost savings. A total of 641 km of road were assessed. For
very low volume roads, a distributional or regional weight on benefits was applied to ensure certain
social/basic access objectives are captured in the analysis. A study to refine the analytical approach for
low volume roads is underway, and will form the basis for all further assessments of such roads. For the
Urban Roads Program, methodologies similar to the Feeder Roads were employed with consideration of
the income levels of the targeted beneficiaries. The total number of km in the program is 77.5, with arterial
road development accounting for 19 km, rehabilitation of roads for 24 lum, access to depressed areas 22.5
km, and development of non-motorized transport (NMT) for a stretch of 12 km.
Economic rates of return range from 15% to over 90% for the National Priority Route Program (GHA).
The sensitivity analyses indicate that the economic rates of return are robust. Detailed ERRs and NPVs are
presented in Annex 4. The ERRs for the Feeder and Urban Roads Programs are well above 20%, with
most over 40%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial Management will be done at the macro level within the framework of the MTEF, and at the
project level by the agencies using their contract management systems.
Fiscal Impact:
The road sector has, over the last few years, seen a reduction in the dependence on direct budgetary
allocations from the Consolidated Fund to a greater reliance on the Road Fund to finance the local portion
of expenditures. Consolidated Fund contributions have declined from US$88.3 million in 1997 to US$28.8
million in 2000. This contribution is projected to decline further to a total of US$24.0 million over the
three year budget period, and this is mainly to cover the salaries of civil and public servants of the Ministry
and its agencies. This represents less than 4% of total program costs.
The Road Fund's contribution is expected to grow, and the total estimated inflow of  1,552 billion
(US$210.8 million) will cover around 18% of total program expenditure. Past and projected trends in
Road Fund revenue are as follows:
ROAD FUND - PROJECTED REVENUES
Year              1998       1999   _  2000   |  2001        2002       2003
Revenues (Cedis billion)    189       227        241        326.4      517         679
Growth %                              20%         6%        35%        58%        31%
In fiscal year 2001, a total amount of 700 billion will be spent on the road sector. Out of this amount the
Road Fund will contribute 326.4 billion, whilst the donor community is expected to contribute 286
billion. Financing from the donor community will come in the form of grants (30% of secured funds) and
concessionary loans.
The increasing reliance on user charges takes a substantial burden off direct budgetary allocations from the
Consolidated Fund. In the present Ghanaian circumstances of high local and foreign debt, with total debt
- 15 -



servicing put at 8% of GDP and 45% of total revenues in 2000, this route for meeting part of the financing
requirements will reduce Government borrowing and assure the achievement of the road sector's objectives
at reasonable cost. The current petroleum levy of 230tliter contributes 88% of the Road Fund revenues,
but forms less than 10% of the overall fuel price. At this level, and with the projected increases over the
program period, the levy is not expected to exert severe pressure on transport and related costs and thereby
raise local inflation.
3. Technical:
The program has been prepared using well-known standard principles and procedures in highway
engineering. Roads have been selected for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation on the basis of sound
technical, economic, and environmental analyses. Nearly all road works, including rehabilitation, periodic,
and routine maintenance, are being contracted to the private sector. Experience has shown that there is a
large number of local consulting firms and contractors capable of carrying out small or medium-sized road
contracts in a satisfactory manner. Various institutional measures are in place, particularly in GHA, to
monitor the state of roads in the country and the status of the works being carried out, including a
comprehensive technical annual audit in conjunction with the financial audit, a contract management and
information system in place, and a database on road conditions being updated annually.
4. Institutional:
During the RSDP, improvements in institutional structures and efficiency will focus on:
1. human resource development in the MRH and its three agencies, being defined through the
ODICT-P study;
2. establishing clear structures and operational practices to apply the Government's decentralization
policy to the roads sector;
3. improving and consolidating the work practices of the Road Fund;
4. strengthening NRSC and DVLA;
5. consolidating the financial management and monitoring systems of MRH and its agencies; and
6. introducing systems, regulations and practices to manage privatized operations of parts of the road
system through concessioning, tolling, and performance contracting.
4.1 Executing agencies:
a. Executing agencies: MRH; and
b. Project management: GHA, DFR, DUR
4.2 Project management:
The agencies themselves will be responsible for project management, with planning, programming, and
implementation of sector activities an area of continued focus. Monitoring of project activities in a
systematic fashion will be reinforced, supported and guided by the procedures detailed in the Project
Implementation Manual.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The absence of a comprehensive government procurement code necessitates the mandated use of financing
agencies' procurement guidelines. A national procurement code is under preparation with assistance from
IDA. (See Annex 6.)
4.4 Financial management issues:
A new and integrated financial management and accounting system must be in place to replace AMISU in
- 16 -



the MRH and its three agencies no later than the start of the program period. (See Annex 5).
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental impact assessment (EIA) of the program was undertaken by international consultants in
association with local experts. The EIA concluded that the project is unlikely to have adverse effects on the
environment, as it mainly involves the maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading of existing roads. No new
construction is intended, except where linkage to the next level road has been identified as necessary from
both a social and commercial standpoint. Negative environmental impacts during the works, such as dust,
noise, detours, traffic delays, spoil materials, fumes, construction camps and affiliated services, will be of
short duration and will be included in the mitigation plans of the contracting entities. In a very few cases,
removal of structures within the road reservation may be required.
Positive environmental impacts are expected to be achieved through improved safety designs, including
guard rails, barriers, overpasses, sidewalks and road shoulders. Paving of gravel roads will eliminate dust
pollution, and improved drainage will reduce exposure of near-by residents to waterborne diseases
associated with standing water. Improvements in vehicular controls will address noise and visual pollution
issues, reduce road deterioration (through overloading regulations), and thus minimize the need for
extensive road works. Copies of the environmental assessment reports are available and have been
disclosed to the relevant domestic agencies, stakeholders, as well as external funding agencies (see Section
5.4 below).
Specific projects under the program will be identified on an annual basis and the environmental and social
impact of each road will be evaluated individually, in keeping with national environmental assessment
requirements, as well as those of the Bank. An acceptable mitigation framework/plan has been discussed
and agreed upon, and the required additional costs are reflected in the project costs. (See Annex I 1).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Under the RSDP, the GHA Environmental Unit will conlinue to ensure that EIAs are prepared and that the
resulting environmental and social mitigation measures are implemented and monitored. The project will
strengthen the Environmental Unit's capacity to implement and monitor these measures and extend the
scope of its work to include DFR and DUR. Based on the environmental and social management
experience gained under the HSIP, the EMP, which includes a resettlement and compensation policy
framework, will support the following activities: (i) environmental and social capacity strengthening, (ii)
policy enhancement, and (iii) environmental and social oversight. As the RSDP adopts a programmatic
approach, specific projects under the program will be identified annually and the environmental and social
assessments of each road will be prepared in keeping with environmental assessment requirements of
Ghana and the Bank.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 11/14/00
The EIA was placed in the World Bank InfoShop on November 21, 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 17..



The Environmental and Resettlement/Compensation Framework was disclosed at public hearings beginning
November 17, 2000, in conjunction with the Government's annual donor conference in the road sector held
in Accra. A second hearing was held on November 21, 2000, also in Accra. There were four national
broadcasts (two daily) of the EIA on Radio Ghana on November 25 and December 2, 2000, respectively.
The EIA was made available in Ghana on November 17, 2000, at the Ministry of Roads and Highways,
Ministry of Environment and the Project Information Center at the World Bank Field Office in Accra. For
each individual road, potentially affected persons and businesses will be identified during the works design
phase, and public hearings held as appropriate.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Under the HSIP, the standard GHA procedures include monitoring of the contract entities to ensure they
respond to the objectives identified in each individual EMP. This monitoring function will be expanded and
enhanced under the RSDP to encompass DFR and DUR roads, and monitoring of social as well as
environmental impacts.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Improved access and poverty reduction. The program will contribute to the reduction of poverty by
improving access to goods and services throughout the country. Direct benefits will arise from: (a)
improved access of remote rural and urban areas to social services and employment opportunities; (b)
easier access to productive inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides, extension services and credit facilities; and
(c) development of pedestrian-only facilities in urban areas to increase mobility as well as lower road
accident rates. Indirect benefits on poverty levels will arise from the reduced cost of transporting goods
and personnel on improved road networks by improved transport services. In certain areas marketing of
surplus production will become more feasible, while in others roads will result in lower transport costs
through increased competition and/or better prices through access to more lucrative markets. A significant
amount of employment, both direct and indirect, will also be generated through the use of labor intensive
methods in civil works for all network development including the national priority program, the feeder
roads program and the urban roads program.
Improved mobility and the gender dimension. The program has recognized the particular importance of
gender in improving access and mobility. The program, in coordination with the complementary Rural
Travel and Transport Program (RTTP), a component of the SSATP, will facilitate better use of improved
road infrastructure by rural women through: (i) increased motorized services and use of IMTs, thus
decreasing the need for head-loading; (ii) promotion of employment opportunities through labor-based
methods and improved mechanisms for dissemination of information concerning employment opportunities
for women; and (iii) introduction of gender-sensitive terminology in relevant legislation and regulations.
Incorporating social criteria into selection process. To ensure that social development factors are
incorporated into the road selection process, greater use of multi-criteria analyses is envisioned. This
methodology, which has recently been applied to the rural road network on a pilot basis, considers traffic,
economic factors (types and sizes of markets) and social factors (access to health, education, postal and
telecommunication services) in the ranking and selection of investments.
Social impact assessment. Social impact assessments will be carried out as part of project evaluation
under the program, in particular for roads considered to be of high "social value or risk". This includes
both feeder and urban roads. Gender issues will also be assessed as separate, but integral parts, of the
- 18 -



social impact analyses. Data will be gathered on a disaggregated basis to monitor gender impacts and all
projects will be rated in accordance with their potential gender impact.
HIV/AIDS. As truckers and rnigrant construction workers represent an important vector for transmission
of the AIDS virus, the project will assist MRH to prevent new HIV infection among these target groups.
Two strategies are envisaged: (i) undertaking an Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
campaign and training program that will highlight the risks and ways to protect oneself and one's partner(s)
from infection, and (ii) distributing condoms. Protocol agreements will be signed between MRH and the
Hauliers' and Contractors' Associations to implement these activities. Support for these and other activities
will be available from the Ghana AIDS Response Fund, also financed by IDA.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
MRH has regular consultations and infornation sessions with stakeholders, the media and the public at
large. The Ministry's annual mid-term review, usually held in August, contains public review sessions, and
the annual sectoral donor conference in November is public and usually well attended. Individual
sub-projects are subjected to public hearings.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Key stakeholders will be identified and women particularly included in all decision-making bodies, from
project design, through implementation, monitoring/supervision and evaluation. NGOs will also be
included in the design and implementation of various aspects of the project as relevant.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The purview of the GHA Environmental Unit has been expanded to encompass environmental and social
assessment of all roads (see above).
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A baseline study on the impact of the RSDP on poverty reduction has been undertaken, and changes in key
indicators will be monitored during the program period.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proiect?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The relevant safeguard policies are parts of the design criteria for the guidelines and operational regulations
of the environmental and social assessments and mitigation measures that will be applied under the project.
- 19 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Government is, at the political level, firmly committed to improving the performance of the sector. To
strengthen further the chances for sustainability, the following actions will be taken: (i) transparent use of
and predictable supply of funds for road maintenance and their timely disbursement; (ii) capacity building;
(iii) use of an efficient system for road maintenance planning, programming and supervision (road
maintenance planning and programming improvements will be underpinned in part by the five-year rolling
RMRP); and (iv) enhancement of regulatory capacity in the administration.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
M
-GOG does not enact and implement tariff             -Part of eligibility criteria for the funding of the
increases for the Road Fund to keep pace             annual road work program
with inflation and with maintenance needs
-Road Fund releases are not made           M         -Part of eligibility criteria for the funding of the
according to the agreed procedures                   annual road work program
-Weakening of GOG commitment to            N         -Close coordination between GOG and the
institutional reforms in the road sector             donors in the road sector; joint funding of the
road program
From Components to Outputs
M
-Timing of donor funding out of phase                -Close coordination between GOG and the
with program requirements                            donors in the road sector
-GOG counterpart funds not available in a  M         -Adherence to the principles of MTEF
timely manner
-Procurement not carried out in a timely   M         -Periodic updating of the procurement plan;
manner                                               periodic training offered on various procurement
topics
-Accounting and reporting arrangements     N         -Joint review of financial management and
for the program not functioning as                   reporting performance after 3 quarters of
planned                                              implementation
-Inadequate performance of consultants     N         -Availability of training programs for the
and contractors                                      private sector; disqualification of chronically
poor performers
-Agreed staffing levels not maintained     N         -Continued implementation of institutional
reforms as part of the program
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 20 -



3. Possible Controver,ial Aspects:
A controversial aspect has been the issue of arrears to contractors in the road sector. The Bank's receipt of
a Letter of Undertaking from the Minister of Finance expressing a commitment to and payment schedule
for resolving the problem indicates the Government's strong commitment to reaching a final resolution.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
* Adoption of the Project Implementation Manual.
* Financial management and accounting systems established in MRH, GHA, DUR and DFR.
* Auditor appointed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[ 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed umder loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Z 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Imogene  . Jensen                          e PiPssis-Fraissard       Di     nerann -Act Prograam
Coordinator for
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Director
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Keay Performac
H4ierairchy Qf Objectives        IniaosMonitorn  &Evaluaion                     Ciia   supin
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Alleviating key infrastructure   - Average VOC of transporting Impact studies  Continued improvement in the
deficiencies, particularly  goods reduced by at least:                         environment for economic
roads, for the promotion of    10%                  Accident statistics: NRSC &   growth, including redefining
economic growth, poverty  - No. of fatalities and injuries  BRRI               the role of the state,
alleviation, rural development, through accidents per vehicle                  decentralization, and private
agricultural growth, and  reduced by at least 5%                               sector participation
regional equality
Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Sustainable improvements in  - Improve road condition mix  Technical audits    - Increased efficiency and
the supply and performance of for maintenance at a                             transparency in procurement
roads and road transport  minimum from 29.2% good,  Annual road condition surveys and contract management,
services in a regionally  27.1% fair, and 43.7% poor                          including the adoption of a
equitable manner          to 59% good, 27% fair, and   Quarterly and annual road    national procurement code
12% poor                  agency reports            - Payment of arrears owed by
- Average travel time between                        GOG to road contractors and
district capitals reduced by at                      no further contracting outside
least 15%;                                          the agreed program
- Ratio of all road works                            - Factors contributing to VOC
(Components 1-3) carrieC out                        that are not directly related to
in the 4 northem regions over                       road condition do not change
the national grand total does
not decrease over the 3-year
period;
- Percent of communities
within 10 km of a
maintainable road increased
by 10%;
- Amount of maintainable
feeder roads increased from
11,500 to 16,220 km;
- Compliance with axle load
limitations increased by 10%;
- DVLA: number of vehicles   Annual DVLA report on
inspected increased to 80% of registration
total population of registered
vehicles;
- NRSC to reduce fatality rate
of 73 per 10,000 by 5%;
- Increase in fuel levy to:  Report from Road Fund Board
0 230/litre in 2001
0 310/litre in 2002
0 395/litre in 2003
- 22 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Targeted routine       1.1 Routine maintenance    Prcoject Management Reports  GOG to enact and implement
maintenance carried out by   completed on x km of roads:                       tariff increases for the Road
GHA                       11,600                     Technical audits           Fund to keep pace with
DFR                       13,900                                               inflation and with maintenance
DUR                        1,750                     Annual road condition surveys needs
Quarterly and annual road    Road Fund continues to be
agency reports            managed and releases made
according to the agreed
Annual donor conference   procedures
reports
Continued GOG commitment
Mid-Term Review           to institutional reforms in the
road sector
MRH Annual Reports
2. Targeted periodic      2.1 Periodic maintenance and
maintenance and minor     minor rehabilitation and minor
rehabilitation carried out by   upgrading completed on x km
GHA                       of roads (average)
DFR                       1,353
DUR                       4,332
537
3. Targeted major         3.1 Major rehabilitation and
rehabilitation and        reconstruction completed on x
reconstruction carried out by  km of roads (average)
GHA                       226
DFR                        20
DUR                        62
4. Planned actions completed  4.1 No. of traffic signals
to improve traffic        installed
management and safety     4.2 No. of traffic signs
installed
4.3 No. of road safety hazard
sites treated
4.4 3,500 km of road with line
markings
4.5 50 km of NMT lanes built
and better utilized
4.6 Road Traffic Bill, when
passed, to supersede existing
ordinance.
4.7 Creation of Accident
databank
4.8 Preparation of syllabus for
driving schools
4.9 Increase in no. of private
garages that carry out vehicle
inspections
- 23 *



5. Institutional capacity of    5.1 Annual work program of
MRT, the road agencies, and  each agency submitted by end
related institutions raised for  of August annually
sustainable program       5.2 Rolling multi-year program
formulation and           for construction, maintenance
implementation            and operation submitted to
MoF by October annually
5.3 % of work carried out by
contract (as opposed to force
account)
5.4 Environmental and social
assessment regulations and
procedures adopted, and used
by DFR and DUR
5.5 No. of trainees completing
their course of training
5.6 Adoption of a policy on
HIV/AIDS in the Roads Sector
(Based on National Policy
6. Implementation of the  6.1 Percentage completion of
3-year program successfully  all components of the
completed                 program, weighted according
to cost
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Routine Maintenance    US$101.37 million         Project Management Reports  - Adequate performance of
consultants and contractors
2. Periodic Maintenance,  US$416.03 million                                    - Timely availability of GOG
Minor Rehabilitation and                                                       counterpart funds
Minor Upgrading
3. Major Rehabilitation,  US$559.20 million                                    - Timing of donor funding in
Reconstruction and Upgrading                                                   phase with program
requirements
4 Traffic Management and    US$11.00 million                                   - Agreed staffing levels
Safety                                                                         maintained
5. Institutional Strengthening  US$55.40 million                               - Accounting and reporting
arrangements for the program
functioning as planned
6. Program Operation      US$48.00 million                                     - Procurement carried out in a
timely manner
TOTAL                     US$1,191.00 million
These indicators are to be monitored over the period of the program.
- 24 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. THE PROGRAM
IDA is participating in the support of a Road Sector Development Program (RSDP) which constitutes an
integrated approach to road maintenance, construction, and management by the Ministry of Roads and
Highways (MRH), the MRH Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) and the MRH Department of Urban
Roads (DUR), the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA), the National Road Safety Commission (NRSC), the
Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority (DVLA) and the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MOTC). The description below is that of the full prograr. Disbursements from the Credit will be made
for a slice of the full program, on the basis of an annual work program agreed to in advance. The decision
criteria for the annual program are described below.
The RSDP was prepared as part of the Government's rolling Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF), intended to allocate scarce resources efficiently according to stated objectives and to integrate the
various intemal and extemal funding sources under an agreed program in the spirit of the Comprehensive
Development Framework (CDF). The first year of MTEF forms the basis for the Government's annual
budget prepared for each fiscal year.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$101.37 million
Routine Maintenance
Routine maintenance consists of patching of potholes; light grading; grass cutting; tree and bush clearing
along the roadside; cleaning of gutters, drains and culverts; and minor repair of the slopes. It will be
carried out at least once every year on all trunk roads--1 1,600 for GHA roads, and initially on 12,300 km
of feeder roads and 1,583 km of urban roads, rising through the RSDP period to 11,600, 15,700 km and
1,917 km, respectively. No IDA financing will be used for routine maintenance.
- 25 -



Program of Routine Maintenance, in kIn:
Type of Road       Road Agency       Year I      Year 2      Year 3       Total*
a. Trunk Roads        GHA                  11,600      11,600      11,600       11,600
b. Feeder Roads       DFR                  12,300      13,700      15,700       13,900
c. Urban Roads        DUR                   1,583       1,750       1,917        1,750
Total                                      25,483      27,050      29,217       27,250
* Average number of km maintained every year.
Project Component 2 - US$416.03 million
Periodic Maintenance, Minor Rehabilitation and Minor UpL,radin2
Periodic maintenance, minor rehabilitation and minor upgrading of trunk roads and urban roads consist of
spot improvement, repairing and resurfacing of short stretches of roads, repairs of slopes, and resealing.
For feeder roads it involves spot improvement, repairs of drains, culverts and slopes, and regraveling. A
total of 4,060 km of trunk roads, 12,995 km of feeder roads, and 1,612 km of urban roads will receive
periodic maintenance and minor rehabilitation in the 3-year period. This includes a significant backlog of
roads to be maintained, a portion of which will be financed by IDA.
Program of Periodic Maintenance, Minor Rehabilitation and Minor Upgrading, in km:
Type of Road       Road Agency       Year I      Year 2      Year 3       Total
a. Trunk Roads        GHA                   1,380       1,380       1,300       4,060
b. Feeder Roads       DFR                  4,080        4,915       4,000      12,995
c. Urban Roads        DUR                    211         660         735        1,612
Total                               _      5,671       6,961       6,035       18,667
About 40% of minor rehabilitation and 60% of spot improvements of feeder roads will be completed on
roads that are currently classified as non-maintainable, thereby adding around 6,100 km to the
"maintainable" network over a 3-year period.
Project Component 3 - US$ 559.20 million
Maior Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Maior Up2radina
Major rehabilitation, reconstruction and major upgrading consists of reconstruction; paved and unpaved
rehabilitation; resealing; upgrading (from gravel to bitumen or from bituminous-treated surface to
asphaltic-concrete); placing a thin asphalt overlay; and repair and construction of bridges, culverts, and
other structures. A total of 678 km of trunk roads, 60 km of feeder roads, and 185 km of urban roads will
- 26 -



be completed over the RSDP period. A slice of this component will be financed by IDA.
Program of Major Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Major Upgrading, in kn:
Type of Road       Road Agency       Year I       Year 2      Year 3       Total
a. Trunk Roads         GHA                   265          253          160         678
b. Feeder Roads        DFR                     20          20           20           60
c. Urban Roads         DUR                      7          76          102          185
Total                                        292          349         282          923
a. Trunk Roads
There are three groups of trunk roads that will be reconstructed:
Group 1, Social Priority Roads, consisting of works for which contracts were awarded but not signed, with
pre-financing by private sources. The procurement of these contracts did not follow procedures acceptable
to external assistance agencies in all respects and therefore could not be financed through these sources.
However, the Government has canceled these contracts and repackaged them for program funding.
Group 2, Remaining Arrears Roads, consists of trunk roads remaining after the reduction in the scope of
work or tennination of GOG-financed contracts, which was done by the Government in order to reduce the
future accumulation of arrears owed to contractors. These works will be procured under procedures
acceptable to the relevant external assistance agencies and will be funded by these agencies.
Group 3, Other Priority Roads, selected through the nomial evaluation and screening process for tmnk
roads.
IDA financing may be made available for all groups.
b. Feeder Roads
Sixty km of feeder roads will be rehabilitated in the Aframn Plains over the program period.
c. Urban Roads
The urban roads program includes improved access to low-income communities by the construction of 99
km of access roads, as well as storm drains, walk ways and bicycle paths in all seven cities under DUR,
including ten low-income, low-access areas in Accra. In addition 73.5 km of urban roads will be
constructed in the 7 cities (Accra, Tema, Cape Coast, Sekondi-Takoradi, Kumasi, Tamale, Koforidua).
Arterial roads will be upgraded to make the asphalt surface meet street standards, pedestrian walkways,
new drains will be constructed and existing drains will be covered.
Project Component 4 - US$11.00 million
- 27 -



Traffic Management and Safetv
*   Strengthen NRSC:
-  Install a computerized information system to link the head office with the regional road
safety units,
-  NRSC to establish a national accident data bank in the Building and Road Research
Institute (BRRI),
-  Engage consultants to provide short courses on aspects of road safety as well as
management, planning programming, and budgeting skills,
-  Provide road safety, publicity and other educational materials as well as road safety
public education vehicles,
-  Provide office equipment, including vehicles, computers, photocopy machines and fax
machines,
- Local and external training for traffic police, mainly from the Motor Traffic Unit (MTU),
and
-  Provide vehicles, tow trucks, and motor cycles for MTU.
*   Strengthen DVLA:
- Reform and modemize registration and testing systems for driver's licenses,
-  Introduce driver safety awareness programs,
-  Computerize all systems and develop studies/training programs as support,
-  Renovate facilities and equipment,
-  Develope environmental compliance programs for vehicles, and
-  Select 10 garages to undertake testing and examination of vehicles.
*  Develop a comprehensive road safety strategy and implementation program:
-  Set standards to ensure safety, reliability and efficiency in the transport sector, and
-  Strengthen axle load controls.
Project Component 5 - US$55.40 million
Institutional Strengthening
Institutional strengthening will be provided for MRH, DFR, DUJR, GHA, NRSC and DVLA. The
following activities, a subset of which will be financed by IDA, are included in the program:
a. Policy and Institutional Reform
A number of reforms have been completed or initiated in the road sector in recent years. Further reforms
are planned in the fields of environmental and social mitigation (including HIV/AIDS), road safety, gender
equity, and procurement. Under RSDP, the following actions to develop and expand policies in the above
fields will be carried out:
Review environmental policies and guidelines pertaining to road works, and expand them to
cover urban and feeder roads in addition to the present coverage of trunk roads;
Prepare directives for social assessment and gender equity;
Define, staff and fund units responsible for environmental and social analysis and mitigation
work in DFR and DUR, and establish an oversight unit for this work in GHA;
- 28 -



Explore alternatives to the present practice of financing of the roads sector, such as tolling
(conventional and shadow) or other forms of private sector participation (concessioning, BOT
in all of its variations, etc.);
Plan and implement institutional reforms and restructuring;
Further a truly integrated transport system through improvements in transportation logistics
and documentation, and study and put in place the requirements for the management of such a
system;
Strengthen contract management systems and practices in all road agencies;
Promote research, monitoring/enforeement of standards, and improve quality control in road
work;
Support ESI mitigation measures for works;
Continue the ongoing decentralization, especially in DFR, e.g., delegate administration and
maintenance to the local offices through a step-wise approach, accompanied by coordination
and monitoring; and
Assist MRH to develop and implement strategies to prevent new HIV infection among
truckers/migrant construction workers and populations along affected roads.
Two strategies are envisaged to address the issue of HIV/AIDS above: (i) undertaking an Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) campaign and training program that will highlight the risks and ways
to protect oneself and one's partner(s) from infection, and (ii) distributing condoms. Protocol agreements
will be signed between MRH and the Hauliers' and Contractors' Associations to implement these activities.
While part of the overall program, these activities - the IEC campaign, training, and condom distribution -
would be financed through the Ghana AIDS Response Fund ("Garflmd"). This IDA-financed fund will
provide financing for Government agencies, professional associations and NGOs in a number of areas,
including HIV/AIDS prevention. MRH will be responsible for preparing funding proposals for submission
to Garfund. Once funding has been secured, MRH will monitor implementation to ensure that the aetivities
are being carried out as agreed. Decisions on implementation mechanisms (e.g., direct MRH
implementation or contracting out to an NGO) will be agreed and included in the PIM.
b. Studies
Feasibility studies, designs, preparation of bid documents, and bid evaluation of roads and
other structures;
Review of technical specifications for bridge and road works;
Modernize and update databases on the state of road transport infrastructure, including all
systems, programs and models used for analysis and decision-making; and
Prepare and update the 5-year Rolling Maintenance and Rehabilitation Plan (RMRP) for the
trunk, feeder and urban roads.
c. Training
The program includes training of key personnel in the relevant administrations to improve the capability
especially of middle and lower level technicians, thereby enhancing organizational performance. This will
be accomplished through in-country and external training in the form of apprenticeships, intemships and
scholarships for university graduates, and a comprehensive training program for HDM 4.
d. Technical Assistance
- 29 -



Enhance economic modeling capability (i.e. HDM 4);
Develop GIS capability for GHA, and further enhance this capability for DFR and DUR.
e. Buildings, Vehicles and Equipment
This aims at improving the operation of MRH and the agencies involved and covers:
purchase of office equipment, computers, peripherals and computer software, software and
other equipment;
purchase of vehicles;
construction and equipping of a materials laboratory;
construction of an office building for DFR; and
improving access to acceptable housing for agency staff.
Project Component 6 - US$48.00 million
Program Operation
This component consists of the planning, management, coordination, monitoring and reporting on the road
development program by MRH. Expenses covered will include office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and
supervision costs, but will exclude civil service salaries.
B. INSTITUTIONAL SETTING AND PERSPECTIVES
B.1 The Ministries of Roads and Highways and Transport and Communications
MTC is responsible for formulating policies for the operation of road transport safety and the integration of
road transport with other modes of transportation. MTC also has oversight responsibility for DVLA and
NRSC. MRH is responsible for the management of the road network. As such it plays a central role in
coordinating the activities of the civil service departments, public and private institutions in the road sector.
MRH has direct responsibility over DUR and DFR, and is responsible for oversight of GHA; the MRH
Chief Director is a member of the GHA Board of Directors. The Minister of Roads and Highways is also
ex-officio chairman of the Board of the Road Fund, which provides funding for routine and periodic
maintenance of roads as well as for road safety.
DVLA deals with all issues that relate to vehicles and drivers, and some aspects of safety. It maintains a
register of licensed vehicles, drivers, driving schools and driving instructors. It is in the process of
establishing standards and methods for the training and testing of vehicle examiners. It also proposes to
encourage private sector participation in vehicle licensing through the regulation and licensing of private
garages to undertake vehicle testing.
NRSC has been created by an Act of Parliament and accorded responsibility for coordination of all
stakeholders in road safety activities. NRSC will be directly responsible for road safety education and
creating the enabling environment for road safety as well as monitoring road safety issues in the country.
Objective
The RSDP objectives are to:
- 30 -



(i)  enhance capacity within MRH to ensure that its assigned role of policy formulation, strategic
planning, reporting, monitoring and evaluation are carried out effectively and efficiently;
(ii) help to develop a comprehensive integrated transport system plan, which is complementary in
terms of modal strengths and weaknesses;
(iii) build required capacity to imnprove private sector financing of road infrastructure through schemes
such as Build-Operate and Transfer (BOT); and
(iv) support other road related agencies to ensure the total development of the road sector.
Description
During the RSDP, MRH will be strengthened through civil works, institutional and logistic support.
Institutional support will be provided to MRH through technical assistance in the form of studies that will
enhance MRH's role in policy formulation and monitoring. These include studies on the poverty reduction
impact of the road sector, developing the institutional framework and enabling environment for private
sector financing, and an integrated transport study which will be led by MTC. Institutional support to
MRH will include a review of the Ministry's technical specifications for works and bridges, a total quality
management study to improve their capacity in quality management, etc. MRH will also acquire the
services of a Road Management Adviser and provide support to the existing Road Programme Monitoring
and Coordination Unit.
In the area of training, MRH will draw on the recommendlations of the current study on Organizational
Development and In-country Training (ODICT-P) to address short and medium-term human resource
needs. The training will consist of both post-graduate and short courses, and will comprise both
engineering and non-engineering professionals based in the Ministry. MRH intends to use mainly
in-country facilities to meet the training needs and so will collaborate with the Kwame Nkrumah University
of Science and Technology and the University of Ghana in this area. The Ministry will support the Ghana
Institution of Engineers in the development of training programs for the local highway/transportation
consulting industry. This is a follow-up to the HSIP support for contractors' personnel.
In the area of logistical support, MRH will replace some existing vehicles and purchase some new ones to
meet the needs of their staff . Some office equipment is to be purchased, mainly computers for the
accounting staff and records management. To support the technical, planning and formulation functions of
the Ministry, the newly refurbished MRH library is to be provided with books and journals.
MRH intends to provide accommodation for its staff. This is part of an incentive package to attract and
retain middle level professional staff into the Ministry.
MRH, in collaboration with MOTC, will provide support to capacity building in DVLA and NRSC.
The support for NRSC is to supplement allocations from the Road Fund and support the creation of a
computerized infornation system, training of road safety officers, attachments of specialist consultants,
and logistical support in the form of vehicles and office equipment. DVLA's support will enable the
authority to develop a state of the art vehicle testing center, assist in the evaluation of the capacity of
private garages in the country for vehicle inspection, and lprovide for seminars and workshops and logistical
support.
Implementation arrangements
MRH will have the overall responsibility to manage the new program. MRH's component will be managed
- 31 -



through the RPDC unit. MRH will have procurement and disbursement responsibilities for the support
being given to MOTC, NRSC and DVLA.
B.2 Ghana Highway Authority
GHA sees its mission as the provision of safe and reliable trunk road network at optimal cost, by taking
advantage of modem technology in road building and new income generation methods so as to facilitate
socio-economic development in the country. It is currently responsible for 13,433 km of roads nationwide,
representing about 39% of the length of the country's road network. GHA's part of the RSDP covers the
improvement of the trunk road network through implementing priority projects, completing the residual
arrears projects and investing in other critical reconstruction as well as maintenance projects.
Objective
The RSDP objective related to GHA is to:
(i) improve the trunk road condition and thereby contribute to the overall mix of 56% good, 30%
fair and 14% poor roads by 2003 towards the goal of 70% good, 20% fair and not more than
10% poor by 2005;
(ii) maintain high quality in design, construction and maintenance of roads, whilst lowering costs,
through the use of modem technology and intensified quality control;
(iii) continue to develop the local road construction industry, through training in technical skills,
quality control and contract administration; and
(iv) strengthen the organizational structure and institutional capacity of GHA.
Description
The RSDP has two main focus areas for GHA: (i) physical improvement of the trunk road network; and
(ii) institutional and organizational improvement, and related logistical support.
Physical improvement of the trunk road network.
The works program consists of the reconstruction of some priority roads, upgrading of gravel roads that
form important linkages to the trunk road system, routine and periodic maintenance, and the construction of
bridges. GHA also intends to have a new materials laboratory constructed.
In the area of training GHA plans to expose its professional staff to new developments in specialized fields
such as road safety, environrnental and social assessments, contract management and information
technology. The training will consist of short term extemal training (attachments, courses and study tours)
for up to 60 members of staff, MSc programs for 5 staff, and conferences and seminars for top level
management and directors. The intemal training will comprise seminars and short courses for managers
and supervisors, and job enrichment classes for support level staff. This training schedule has been
prepared on the basis of a study of the training and development needs of MIRH and its agencies.
Consultancy services will cover pre-feasibility and feasibility studies, design and design review, and
supervision of road and bridge works.
Logistical support will cover the provision of axle load control weighbridges, traffic counters, laboratory
equipment and equipment for the proposed road safety patrol. Replacement parts for laboratory and field
- 32 -



equipment will also be acquired. Vehicles will be purchased to replace existing over-aged ones.
Computerized survey and design equipment are needed for the GHA design office.
Staff accommodation will be provided as an incentive for staff in the head office and throughout the
regions.
Implementation arrangements
GHA has been implementing the HSIP for the past three years and so is familiar with the Bank's
implementation requirements. Maintenance works will continue to be handled at the GHA regional offices
while procurement of major development projects will be done at the Head office.
Institutional capacity to handle the RSDP
GHA's average annual program over the last five years has been US$160 million. The proposed program
will require an annual disbursement of about US$220 million. Most of the costs in the GHA program are
large trunk road constructions and thus the additional manpower requirements are not proportionate to the
increased disbursement. Most of the design, supervision and construction works will be contracted out to
the private sector. GHA will recruit a number of middle level professionals after a proposed retrenchment
exercise has taken place, reducing staff levels from the present 3,300 to about 1,500.
B.3 Department of Feeder Roads
The implementation of DFR's part of the RSDP will take place in the context of the Government's
mandated policy of decentralization.
Objective
The RSDP objectives related to DFR are to: (i) improve the physical condition of the feeder road network,
and (ii) develop a sustainable framework for rural transport. This component seeks to improve the
livelihood of rural Ghanaians, by facilitating access of the rural population, which is predominately poor,
to markets and to economic and social goods and services (agricultural inputs, markets, processing and
storage facilities, health clinics, schools, local and central government services, etc.).
This part of the RSDP will be assisted by the multi-donor Rural Travel and Transport Program (RTTP),
which is part of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP). The RTTP will provide
technical support to DFR, in particular through assisting Ghana in developing a National Rural Transport
Strategy, which will:
define the role of Government (central and local), districts, producers' organizations, etc., in
the management and financing of feeder roads, village-to-farm tracks, paths, and footbridges;
identify a realistic approach as to the size and level of service of the network of feeder roads,
village-to-farm tracks, paths, and footbridges which can be sustained in the country;
promote the use of appropriate technical standards, local resources and small contractors for
rural transport infrastructure works;
seek to increase the availability of intermediate means of transport for the movement of people
and goods; and
mainstream the use of social and environmental assessment in the rural transport sector.
- 33-



Description
The RSDP part dealing with improvement of the feeder road network requires an average annual expansion
of the network of 1,900 km, which is in line with past expansion rates. During 2001-2003, the
maintainable network is planned to increase by a total of 5,700 km and thus reach 18,200 km. DFR
projects to have a maintainable network of 22,000 km by 2005, which will bring virtually the entire feeder
road network of 24,000 km to a maintainable condition.
The first-year work program of rehabilitation, spot improvement and surfacing will be established by
applying the consumer surplus approach that was used under the National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (NFRRMP). Consultants will be engaged to undertake the socio-economic
(feasibility) studies prior to engineering studies, and to collect base-line data on environmental and social
impact. Where roads were previously selected for full rehabilitation, the feasibility studies carried out by
consultants, will establish whether full rehabilitation is required or whether spot improvement is more cost
effective. Similarly, the feasibility studies will assess the viability of roads proposed for bitumen surfacing.
The work program of subsequent years will employ criteria and selection methods that are currently being
developed with support from DflD. (See below and Annex 4.)
To contribute to the Government's goal of poverty alleviation, the use of labor-based contractors is
widespread and will be continued. Environmental and social mitigation measures will be systematically
employed in all road works.
The Training activity will support DFR's Koforidua Training School and career development with a
particular regard towards female staff. The Koforidua Training School received substantial support in the
past and should be able to position itself as a training center for West Africa. For this it will be necessary
to develop a marketing strategy, develop course material and provide some further upgrading of facilities.
The school will be expected to explore opportunities to market itself as a conference center for activities
outside the transport sector. Course material, especially on labor-based issues, will be developed in close
cooperation with ILO and a partnership is envisioned with the Aarhus Technical College of Denmark to run
Project Management courses. Overseas training is expected to include ten M.Sc.-level graduates, and
specific training in project planning, appraisal and financing, and contract management.
The Consultancy Services will include socio-economic impact studies on the selected roads, design and
supervision of civil works, and a GIS network (master plan) study that will be of direct relevance for the
prioritization exercises at the community and district level. The services of a short term financial
management specialist will also be contracted.
The Logistic Support will require the replacement of vehicles at Head Office and in the regions as well as
office equipment.
Rural Travel and Transport
The sub-component will continue ongoing RTTP programs through additional studies, workshops and pilot
activities. Four background studies have been carried out which will serve as a discussion platform for the
National Rural Transport Policy: (i) Feasibility of the Use of Intermediate Means of Transport in Ghana;
(ii) Institutional Frameworkfor Planning, Financing and Management of Rural Roads; (iii) Engineering
Standards and Performance Criteria for Rural Roads in Ghana; and (iv) A Gender and Rural Transport
Services Study. Additional studies will be commissioned to deepen the understanding of rural transport
issues in Ghana. Study tours will be arranged to countries which have successfully and through innovative
- 34 -



approaches addressed specific aspects of the rural transport sector. Resource persons will be invited to
Ghana to share their experiences.
The RSDP will also support the implementation of pilot activities of the RTTP to test specific aspects of
the National Rural Transport Policy. Possible candidates are: (i) a pilot on the decentralized funding
mechanisms managed by the District Assemblies and (ii) promotion of Intermediate Means of Transport in
four pilot districts. Workshops will be supplemented by dissemination of information on rural travel and
transport related topics through local radio and the press.
Implementation Arrangements
The Rural Transport Component will be implemented by l)FR through its central and deconcentrated units.
The role of the District Assemblies, Works Departments and communities will increase over time as
decentralization moves forward. There will be extensive consultation with stakeholders at all levels.
Works Prioritization and Decentralization
DFR is in the process of developing a road selection/prioritization methodology based on the Participatory
Rural Appraisal (PRA) approach. This method is being tested in the project zone of the North-Eastern
corridor and, depending on the results, will replace the consumer surplus appraisal methodology used
during the NFRRMP.
The idea behind the development of this system is to have a participatory appraisal methodology that can
be handled by the districts with a minimum support and guidance from DFR or consultants. The PRA will
be piloted in nine districts in Northern, Brong Ahafo and Volta regions. DFR plans to apply the system, if
proved successful, to all other districts.
DFR's proposed methodology seeks to ensure full participation of the beneficiary communities and districts
in the initial selection and prioritization of their roads; and place a high premium on gender sensitivity and
poverty alleviation. A five-step approach is proposed (see flow chart) that would engage the communities,
their district assemblies and DFR in a consultative decision-making process. Through an iterative process
that weighs community priorities, budgetary restrictions and network concerns against implementation
capacity, the annual program would be determined. At present two broad categories of socio-economic
indicators are to be employed: population coverage and access to public facilities (clinics, schools,
markets, agric input and storage centers). Socio-economic criteria are to be used in parallel with financial
and technical criteria.
With assistance from the RTTP and the other development partners, DFR will also revisit the definition of
feeder roads and their technical standards. Currently all roads that are not trunk or urban are defined as
feeder roads to be maintained with assistance of DFR. A more detailed breakdown, for example into
feeder/district/and community roads or simply feeder and district roads, might be preferable to assign clear
management and financial responsibilities. Technical standards commensurate with this system of
classification could then be introduced, limiting the necessary investments to expected service levels. The
responsibility for maintenance would follow from this and would most likely lead to an contribution of
districts and communities to the maintenance of their networks.
The methodology involves five iterative steps as follows:
- 35 -



Sensitization/awareness and meeting with
beneficiary communities|
a
Selection and prioritization of roads by
communities through an expanded Works
Committee which present their priorities to
district assemblies
TechnicaVeconomic/social analysis with
assistance of DFR/ consultants using: (i)
cost/km, (ii) cost/ population, (iii) social
criteria
Further discussion with beneficiaries and
district assemblies to reach agreement
no                      yes
Determination of final prioritized list with
recommended interventions and cost
B.4 Department of Urban Roads
DUR strives to evolve into a Department of Urban Transport that will plan and oversee urban transport
policy nationwide. Its units at the metropolitan and municipal level have become metropolitan/municipal
roads units, which work together with the municipal authorities to manage the urban roads under their
jurisdiction. This is in line with the Government's policy of decentralization, which requires that
municipalities own, manage and maintain all infrastructure within their vicinity. Road Fund allocations for
municipal/metropolitan areas are released to DUR. DUR's engineers in the Metropolitan Municipality
District Units (MMDUs) plan and manage routine and periodic maintenance based on the priorities of the
municipal authorities. The area Roads Units provide the technical capacity while making use of the
procurement capacity at the municipal authorities. Procurement and tendering procedures are carried out
at municipal level. However, contracts are signed at Head Office with DUR and not the area authorities.
There are currently seven municipal/metropolitan areas in which DUR is established: Accra Metropolitan
Area, Tema Municipal Area, Cape Coast Municipal Area, Kumasi Metropolitan Area, Shama-Ahanta
Metropolitan Area (Sekondi-Takoradi), Tamale Municipal Area, and Koforidua Municipal Area. All other
secondary town roads are currently under the jurisdiction of GHA. It is proposed that DFR take over the
management of these roads as an interim arrangement.
Objective
The RSDP objectives for DUR are to:
(i) improve the urban road network
(ii) Support DUR to prepare for its role as the Department of Urban Transport
(iii) Support the metropolitan and municipal assemblies in strengthening their capacity to manage
the roads under their jurisdiction
- 36 -



Description
The program has two main focus areas: (i) Improvement of the urban road network, and (ii) institutional
and logistical support. The program to improve the urban road network includes arterial development,
expansion of access roads to depressed areas started under the previous Urban Transport Project, improved
traffic management, and provision of non-motorized transport paths.
In the area of training, DUR envisages training of staff, contractors and other in-house training. Staff
training is made up of short term training (less than 16 weeks) for up to 72 staff members and MSc
programs for 14 staff including the areas of development, traffic management and maintenance. The
training includes the staff in the metropolitan units, thus helping to strengthen the decentralized units. The
final training schedule will be determnined through the ODICT-P study.
In the area of consultancy services, DUR will undertake design reviews of previous work and also a series
of studies that will help strengthen their capacity as an Urban Transport Unit. This includes the placement
of short term road safety and quality assurance experts within the Department. Other studies to be
undertaken include value of time, parking and terminal management and an urban public transport study,
as well as annual studies to update socio-economic indicators.
Logistical support will require replacement of vehicles at both headquarters and in the MMDUs. Each
area office is to be equipped with laboratory equipment to perform simple tests. Office equipment is also to
be provided.
Under the project DUR will provide accommodation for its staff. This is part of the incentive package to
motivate and retain middle and senior level staff within the department.
Implementation Arrangements
The DUR and its decentralized road units will implement this part of the RSDP. With respect to the roads
in the metropolitan and municipal areas, the area road units will continue to work in consultation with their
respective assemblies, strengthening the capacity at that level. Procurement is proposed to be done at the
Head office. However with due consideration to the proposed increase in work program, area road units
may handle National Competitive Bidding (NCB), whilst the Head office takes care of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). DUR is familiar with Bank procurement procedures through their handling of
past projects.
Capacity ofAgency and Private Sector (contractors and consultants) to handle Program
Last year DUR handled a program of US$53.00 million, as its program of US$68.00 million was scaled
down due to budgetary constraints. The proposed progr.am will require an annual resource use of
approximately US$80.00 million. DUR and its MMDUs have the capacity in terms of manpower to handle
the additional funding. However, the local consulting and contracting industries will be stretched to their
limits when called upon to implement the DUR program. For the program to succeed there will have to be
an active encouragement of international consultants to compete against or associate with smaller local
firms. National contractors have been handling routine and periodic maintenance and some minor
rehabilitation satisfactorily. Nonetheless the proposed increased work load will have to be carefully
monitored to prevent overloading of any one contractor.
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Local       Foreign,       Total
~~~~rj   00 0 0 ,0,0jlect Cost By Comoet    .         0  US >$million  f  0US $millin  0;  US $mililon, 
Routine Maintenance                                       86.17        15.20        101.37
Periodic Maintenance                                     176.82       176.99        353.81
Rehabilitation                                           194.64       293.62        488.26
Traffic management                                         6.00         5.00         11.00
Institutional strengthening                               26.67        21.19         47.86
Program management                                        48.00         0.00         48.00
Total Baseline Cost                                      538.30       512.00       1050.30
Physical Contingencies                                   60.20        32.40         92.60
Price Contingencies                                      33.10        15.00         48.10
Total Project Costs            631.60        559.40       1191.00
Total Financing Required             631.60        559.40      1191.00
Loal      Foreign,      'Tt
Prji,ti Cot c By Category               US $milion    Ui $$i11ton    US 5mllbon
Goods                                                       2.13          18.72        20.85
Works                                                     533.70         509.30      1043.00
Services                                                   41.24          30.83        72.07
Training                                                    6.53           0.55         7.08
Program management                                         48.00           0.00        48.00
Total Project Costs    631.60        559.40       1191.00
Total Financing Required    631.60         559.40      1191.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 55 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is l136 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 19.37% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 38 -



Annex 4
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
An economic analysis was conducted for the civil works, which consist of reconstruction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of the: (i) national priority network (GHA sub-component); (ii) feeder road network (DFR
sub-component); and (iii) urban road network (DUR sub-component).
The civil works, including contingencies, represent 97.6% of program costs. Economic analysis was not
conducted on the institutional strengthening, policy reform and sector program management components.
As the RSDP is a sector program, the economic analysis focused on a sample of roads from each
sub-component. These included roads in the first year, plus some roads from the maintenance and
rehabilitation program in ensuing years. Over the course of the program, individual roads will be assessed
as they come on line. The following table summarizes the results of the economic analysis for the three
sub-components.
Present Value of Flows        Fiscal Impact *
Item/Sub-Component   Economic Analysis  Financial Analysis   Taxes    Subsidies
(US$M)      _  (US$M)        (US$M)    (US$M)
Cost (Undiscounted)                                     738.8
A. GHA civil works        216.9            255.2
B. DFR civil works          6.9**            8.1
C. DUR civil works        206.2            228.5
NPV
A. GHA civil works        281.0
B. DFR civil works         41.3**
C. DUR civil works        614.5
D. Program NPV            901.7
EIRR
A. GHA civil works         31%
B. DFR civil works         75%
C. DUR civil works         82%
D. Program EIRR            47%         _
* The project is expected to have minimal fiscal impact in terms of taxes and subsidies. Other
than regular salaries of civil servants and implementing agencies, all contributions by Ghana
to the program are mobilized through the Road Fund.
** DFR analysis carried out on a samnple of roads with relatively low unit costs.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic analysis is based on updated data and projections of traffic, vehicle operating costs (VOC),
project economic costs and transport user benefits. For the GHA sub-component, the HDM model was
used to evaluate benefits and specify an optimum maintenance strategy on the sample roads. Benefits
included VOC savings, accident savings and employment benefits. Because of low traffic levels on the
rural roads, the analysis of the DFR sub-component did not use the HDM model. Instead it estimated VOC
savings based on traffic counts and estimated goods transport cost savings based on an assessment of
agricultural production in each of the road districts. The DUR component was evaluated on the basis of
VOC savings; however the HDM model was replaced with a more appropriate economic analysis model
designed particularly for this evaluation. Economic costs included civil works, environmental and
resettlement costs and operation and maintenance.
- 39 -



Main Assumptions:
Capital investment, maintenance costs and benefit streams reflect April 2000 prices. Project life was
assumed to be 20 years, with a capital investment period from 2001 to 2004, depending on the road being
evaluated. An economic discount rate of 12% was assumed for the GHA component. Economic viability
was determined by calculating the economic rate of return (ERR), the Net Present Value (NPV), and the
benefit-cost ratio. Particular assumptions and procedures for each sub-component are summarized below.
GHA Sub-component
GHA is responsible for a total of 13,433 kin, of which 33% is considered in "good" condition; 37% is in
"fair" condition and 30% is considered in "poor" condition. The HDM model was used to make an
economic evaluation of 408 km of priority roads in the initial year's program for reconstruction, plus 671
km of the road maintenance program in Zone 1, which covers the southwest part of Ghana. (The country
has been divided into 4 zones, with maintenance requirements identified as specific to the area; the Zone 1
program has been identified with the assistance of HDM-3; for Zones 2-4 the HDM-4 model will be
employed.) Maintenance and rehabilitation costs were estimated in financial and economic terms. Vehicle
characteristics and unit costs were defined for typical vehicle classes. The traffic growth rates were defined
based on recent traffic trends. The HDM evaluation helped define the best maintenance strategy acceptable
from both an engineering and economic perspective.
VOC savings on the road network have been estimated as follows:
ESTIMATED VEHICLE OPERATING COST (VOC) SAVINGS ON GHA NETWORK
___________________       (Cedis/ ehicle/Km)          ___
Type of Vehicle
Road Condition        Cars               Buses         Heavy Trucks
Good                     429              1,047              2.883
Fair                     486              1.101              3.215
Poor                     568              1,166              3,567
Savings Achieved         139               199               684
Source: Ministry of Roads and Transport. Public Expenditure Review 1998
The following table summarizes the results of the economic analysis for the GHA sub-component.
RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - GHA SUB-COMPONENT
Length    Estimated Cost   ERR
(Km)        (US$M)        (%)       B/C Ratio
1. Reconstruction works
- Priority GHA Pron      407.6        244.4         23%
2. Maintenance works
-Zone 1 GHA program      671.2         10.8         56%
Overall Program           1.078.8       255.2         31%          6
The table below presents the detailed results for the Priority GHA Reconstruction Program.
- 40 -



PRIORITY GHA PROGRAM FOR RECONSTRUCTION
Route Length     ADT       Estimated Cost    ERR
Road Name              (Km)   _    (92L           (US$M)
1. Jasikan-Brewaniase          52            337           15.6         41
2. Brewaniase-Oti Damanko      48            263           24.0         30
3. Oti Damanko-Yendi           50            110           25.0         15
4. Bole-Bamboi                 35            89            17.5         26
5. Berekum-SamDa               30            370           15.0         22
6. Tetteh Quarshie
Mamfe+lnterchanze           40       __25,000          58.0          20
7. Techiman-KintaMpo           60            383           30.0
8. Somakope-Ho                 58            316           29.0         33
9. Ho-Fume                     20.6          196           10.3         21
10. Accra-Tema Motorway         14        =  16.000        20.0/a
Total                       407.6                       244.4
/a Potential separation of motorway from interchanges-which account for greater part of cost.
Resultant cost estimated at US$20m.
Source: GHA
Maintenance Program. Thirty-nine prospective road links were identified with average daily traffic (ADT)
ranging from 600 to 9500 and ERRs ranging from 15% to over 100%. Total estimated cost for the 3-year
program amounts to US$108.3M, with Zone I costs estimated at US$10.8M. The HDM model was used
to define basic road maintenance strategies by: (i) simulating road deterioration and the frequency of
maintenance operations for each fundamental altemative; (ii) simulating vehicle operating costs; and (iii)
making comparisons between different strategies of road maintenance or construction and defining the
optimal solution for the maintenance programs over several. years. The model was applied based on
technical and economic parameters that include road geometry, natural soil and road degradations, driving
conditions, road maintenance costs, vehicle operating costs., traffic counts, existing road maintenance
strategy, etc. A three-year road maintenance program was prepared as follows:
*   selection of the road sections to be evaluated was biased on the Relative Degradation Index (RDI).
The Relative Degradation Index (RDI) = traffic times (IRI-3)2, itself a function of the International
Roughness Index (IRI). Only those sections with an RDI of more than 1000 were selected;
e   breakdown of the selected road network into homogeneous sections on the basis of traffic, soil
nature, the level of deterioration of the sections; and
*   conducting of detailed studies on a given number of Homogeneous and Representative Deteriorated
Sections of the sections defined above.
For each proposed maintenance strategy, the model computed the evolution of road deterioration, vehicle
running costs, road maintenance costs, economic indicators (ERR, NPV, benefit/cost ratios). The results
for different maintenance strategies were compared with the base case of what would happen to the network
if investments under the project were not undertaken, using discounted streams of differential benefits and
costs. A number of strategies were defined for the roads, taking into account past and current experience in
- and the technical and financial capability of - the enterprises performing road maintenance work. Three
types of maintenance works will normally be undertaken: (i) rehabilitation, double layer paving with
various materials; (ii) periodic maintenance, single-layer paving with various materials; and (iii) routine
maintenance comprising resealing, pothole patching and maintenance of shoulders. All strategies included
basic routine maintenance on selected road sections consisting of patching at least 50% of potholes.
- 41 -



DFR Sub-component
The network of unpaved roads is 24,000 km long of which about 50% are estimated to be in bad condition,
22% in average condition and only 27% in good condition. A total of 75 road sections were analyzed in 13
districts. An assessment of road sections was made, which included the road condition, traffic levels,
population/knm, and index of accessibility by the population. Based on an assessment of trends in
population growth, agricultural production and economic activity in the roads' areas of influence, the
analysis projected traffic levels and VOCs, as well as transport cost per ton-km for both with and without
road improvement scenarios. The following table summarizes the result of this analysis.
R SULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - DFR SUB-COMPONENT
Length     Estimated Cost     ERR
_   (US$M)        (%)    _    B/C Ratio
I DFR Program       641             8.1           75%             21
Of the 75 road sections, 14 (or 19%) registered an ERR of 0 or less; 7 (or 9%) an ERR between 9 and
11%; 13 (or 17%) an ERR between 12 and 25%; and the remainder, 41 (or 55%) registered ERRs between
26% and 99%. The following table presents a sample of roads in each of the 13 districts and their findings.
SAMPLE RESULTS FOR DFR SUB-COMPONENT
Route                                     Estimated
Road       Length                 ADT      Access       Cost     ERR
Road Name          District __ (Kmn)    (Po/Km)   1999    Index/b    (USL000.  (L.)
I. Aeona-Amoaka      Mampong         16          204       20        1          137       29
2. Nkonsia-Mframaso    Techiman       3          965       3         1           17        75
3. AdaFoah-Totooe    Ada             12          382       39        1           72        26
4. Dabala-Agordome     J Keta          5           154       79        2          87        33
5. Adaklu-Wa-Anfoe  Ho                3                        5     2           51        21
6. Manso Akropong-
Adwuman            B'Kwai           7          278       4         1           46        60
7. Andoe-Adadientem    C'Coast        7         1034       16        1           17       57
- 8. Bechem-Mensin     Sunyani          5          143        12        1           12       44
9. Kunda-Adumadum    Hohoe           2           481       2         1           35       94
IO. Tumu-Kassana      Tumu            18          216       0         0           11       87
1 1. Jag!a-Chereponi  Yendi           6           712       1                    31       56
12. Sawaba-Abrumasi    Tarnale        52          94        1         1           27       59
13. Sirigu-Zokko      Bolga           15          848       9         l           9        55
Total/Ave.                        151 /t      458 /a    15 /a     I /a        552/t      53
a/ average
b/ accessibility index is 0 for worst, I minimum, 2 fair and 3 accessible
t/ total
DUR Sub-component.
The network of urban roads is being improved and expanded in all the main urban areas. Arterial
networks, access roads into depressed areas, and the improvement of local roads are all part of the
proposed urban component of the RSDP. The RSDP will continue the program developed under the HSIP
and will include activity identified as follows:
- 42 -



SUMMARY PROGRAM - DUR SUB-COMPONENT
Estimated
Works Activity         Length      Pop./      ADT       Priority      Cost
Road District                                   (Km)        Km         1999     Ranking    (USM)
1. Greater Accra    - arterial development           26.3      19.0        1.700         1-4         8.58
- access to depressed area       30.0           -          -        5-7         7.00
2. Sekondi-Takoradi  - arter:al development           15.6      11.100          -       9-15        14.80
- rehabilitation of local roads  22.0           -     4000          1-2         6.26
- access to depressed areas       7.5           -      2500         4-7         3.00
3. Tema              - arterial developments          51.9       3.600      9.100       1-15        32.40
- rehabilitation of local roads   7.0                      -          3         3.50
- access to depressed areas      52.6           -          -        5-8         3.99
4. Tamale            - arterial development           20.0       6.250          -        1-2        15.00
- rehabilitation of local roads  18.0           -          -        4-5         9.00
- access to depressed areas      10.0           -        33        8-11         4.00
5. Cape Coast        - arterial development           15.0 _                    -          1         6.00
6. Koforidua         - rehabilitation of local roads  10.0      20.000                     1         4.00
7. Kumasi            - arterial development            6.0      31.000          -          1         8.00
- rehabilitation of local roads  18.0                  2.750        3-4         9.00
- access to depressed roads      20.0           -      7000        7-10         9.00
8. Accra Central     - arterial development           42.3_     19.000     13.200        1-2        70.00
-access to depressed areas       17.5           -       .00        9-10         9.00
- rehabilitation of local roads  15.0                  9.000      4-12         10.00
Total/Ave.                                       404.7/t    15,400/a    6100/a                 228.53/t
a/ average amount estimated. In case of the ADT column that for Tamale has been excluded so as not to distort results.
t/ total for column
For the purpose of the proposed program a total of 124 urban roads were analyzed. The analysis was
divided into two groups: the first, which included 83 of the roads and accounted for 67% of the
component's program, was costed for bituminous surface dressing; while the second group, which included
41 of the roads (33% of the program), was costed using asphalt concrete surfacing. The individual ERRs
of the roads in the first group ranged from a benchmark low of 21% to over 200% with a composite ERR
for this group at 87%. Six roads fell below the 20% benchmark. The individual roads analyzed in group
two ranged in ERRs from a benchmark low of 21% to 195%, with the composite ERR for this group
registering 70%. Three roads fell below the 20% ERR benchmark. The following table presents the ERR
results by region for each category as well as a program summary.
Cape            Kofori-  Greater
Accra   Kumasi  Temu   Sekondi   Coast  Tamale   dua    Accra   Program
Bituminous     101%    143%    13/5%    155%      81%     67%      91%     167%      87%
Surface
Dressing                                                    _
Asphalt        45%    I14%    600/o    65%         -      68%       -        -       70%
Concrete
Surfacing                                                        _
Composite      46%      129%    86%     117%       %      68%      91%      167%     82%   -
These results indicate that although both groups have high ERRs, bituminous surface dressing offers a
higher return. However, a general conclusion cannot be drawn from this result, since the roads in each
category are different and no road was analyzed using both types of surfacing.
An economic analysis of the DUR component as a whole was also undertaken. Quantifiable benefits were
based on VOC savings only, although an analysis considering economic benefits resulting from the direct
employment of unskilled workers was also determined. The resultant benefit of the latter is estimated at
about US$2.5M in the first year. The ERR for the entire ]DUR component, including bituminous and
concrete surface dressings, was calculated to be 82% as indicated below.
- 43 -



RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - DUR SUB-COMPONENT
Length         Estimated Cost        EIRR
(Km)             (USSM)      I       (%)
Program            404.7              228.5              82%
Sensitivity Analysis:
The robustness of the returns and NPVs shown below can be judged by looking at their changes for
different strategies.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
10% Cost Increase
10% Benefit Decrease
Sub-Component    OriRinal ERR           (%)           Break Even Analysis
GHA
Reconstruction works     23%               16%                 20%
Maintenance works        56%              200+%                100+%
Overall GHA              31%               26%                 40%
DFR                      75%               68%                 90%
DUR                      82%               72%                 90+%
With respect to the GHA sub-component, the analyses verify the component's feasibility but indicate that
the first year rate of return is most sensitive to impacts on reconstruction works, where the 12%
opportunity cost of capital discount rate is reached only in year 6. The results also indicate that the
maintenance sub-component is overdue and should be implemented immediately.
For the DFR sub-component, the analysis shows that a 10% cost increase/benefit decrease barely makes a
difference in the ERR, and even a 25% cost increase/benefit decrease only brings the ERR down to 49%.
To attain a break-even ERR of 12% (which is considered to be the minimum opportunity cost of capital),
the costs would half to double, the traffic drop by as much as 90%, VOC and goods transport savings by
50%, the amount of goods transported by 50%, and traffic growth rate constant at 2%/annum.
For the DUR sub-component, sensitivity analyses indicate that the ERRs for the component remain robust
under a number of scenarios. A 10% cost increase paralleled by a 10% benefit decrease would have little
impact on the ERR, reducing it from 82% (overall) to 72%. To attain a break-even ERR of 12% the costs
would have to increase by over 90% and benefits decrease by the same amount. A First Year rate of return
calculation indicates a 24% ERR.
- 44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Years Ending
December 31
- - - - IMPLEME  4T N PErIOD
| Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year6          Year7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         282.7       285.2      207.8     259.9        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            38.4       41.2       36.6       39.2        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        321.1       326.4      244.4     299.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing            321.1       326.4      244.4      299.1       0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  50.0       60.0       50.0       60.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                41.4       58.5       67.8       58.3        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central               41.4        58.5       67.8       58.3       0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers            157.3      146.7       63.4      115.7        0.0       0.0        0.0
0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                    72.4       61.2       63.2       65.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    321.1      326.4      244.4      299.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Central Government financing covers salaries and operation of the MRH and its three agencies;
Financing from Road Fund is considered secured;
Co-financiers account for secured (signed) financing agreements;
"Others" denotes financing to be obtained.
This table reflects the implementation plan for the RSDP program. The disbursement forecast for the IDA
project is slightly more conservative based on past disbursement experience.
Financial Management Assessment
Background Information
The MRH and its agencies, DUR and DFR, and GHA, like all other government Ministries, Departments
and Agencies (MDA), follows the Government of Ghana (GOG) budgeting process. They also follow the
GOG public sector accounting systems in reporting on and accounting for resources made available to them
through the government treasury system. This involves the preparation of ministries' budgets within overall
government budget guidelines, which are consolidated by the MoF and submitted to Parliament for
approval.
Approved budgets are released on a quarterly basis (subject to availability of funds) to MDAs through the
government treasury system. MDAs submit monthly expenditure returns to the Office of the Controller
and Accountant General (C&AG) to enable him prepare GrOG financial statements at the end of each year.
To enable the Controller to perform his functions, and also ensure that proper accounting records are kept
-45 -



at the various MDAs, (each is required to keep a specified set of books of account), staff of the C&AG are
seconded to all MDAs. These seconded staff are required to maintain proper accounting records at the
MDAs and to submit the monthly expenditure returns to the C&AG on timely basis. This system has not
operated effectively and has suffered from late submission of returns from various MDAs, unqualified and
inadequate staff to serve all MDAs, lack of effective monitoring at all levels and lack of automation.
GOG in 1993 and 1994 conducted comprehensive Public Expenditure Reviews (PER) which identified
some key issues, including: (i) weak budgetary framework; (ii) lack of proper accounting and auditing; (iii)
lack of reliable, accurate and timely information for decision making; and (iv) lack of effective monitoring
and control mechanisms to ensure efficient use of public resources.
In 1995 the GOG with the assistance of the World Bank launched a comprehensive medium term strategy,
to address the problems identified by the PERs, through the Public Financial Management Reform Program
(PUFMARP). The main objective of PUFMARP is to improve the efficiency, accountability and
transparency of the financial management function of GOG. The first major achievement of this project is
the change in the GOG budgeting system. The emphasis has shifted from the incremental and input based
budgeting to activity and output based budgeting. The project has also helped the GOG introduce the
MTEF system of budgeting, which lays emphasis on a three year medium term rolling budget for the
government. The next step is to computerize the accounting and reporting functions on government
expenditures and preparation of financial statements or accounts. Work on the project is still in progress.
The World Bank in consultation with the GOG has recently conducted a Country Financial and
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), which aims at ensuring that all GOG's financial management reform
efforts are consistent and complementary. The CFAA will also identify any areas that have not been
touched by the reforms and agree with the GOG of what actions to take. The report has been submitted to
GOG for study and comments.
Summary of the Budgeting, Accounting, Reporting and Monitoring System.
MRH has the responsibility for the preparation and monitoring of the Ministry's budget. MRH follows the
GOG system of budgeting which is described as a Top-Down-Top approach, which starts with the issue of
broad government directives and budget guidelines by the MOF, to all Ministries during the fourth quarter
of the year. Ministries in turn issue sector directives and guidelines to their departments and agencies
(including districts offices if they exist). This first phase represents the Top-Down part.
With these sector directives all the agencies and departments under the Ministry prepare their budgets,
which are presented to the budget section of the Ministry for consolidation into the Ministry's overall
budget. The ministries then present and defend their budgets at a MOF hearing before parliamentary
approval of the GOG expenditure program for the year. The second phase represents the Down-Top part
of the system.
Since the introduction of the MTEF system, the budgetary process has been transformed, and instead of the
yearly budgets MDAs are now required to prepare, in each year, a three year rolling budget described as
strategic plans for parliamentary approval. Based on these budgets/strategic plans resources are released
to various MDAs through the treasury system. The MDAs are required to submit monthly expenditure
reports on all expenditures incurred in the utilization of the budgets to their HQ and C&AG department as
part of the monitoring process. This is intended to allow the C&AG to prepare the GOG financial
statements for the year. Unfortunately the agencies and the departments are unable to meet this reporting
requirement consistently and regularly due to a number of known weaknesses.
- 46 -



Some of these weaknesses are in the areas of lack of adequate staff, accounting recording and reporting;
frequent transfers of accounting staff by the C&AG; inadequate contract management systems, which
contributed to the arrears problem; inability to link financial inputs to results or output; and lack of
automation of their accounting systems. The proposed arrangements to mainstream project activities,
including the financial responsibilities, within the MIRH and its agencies will require a number of actions to
ensure that the financial management arrangement under the RSDP will meet the Bank's minimum
requirement for financial management system for IDA resources, namely;
a reliable accounting and intemal control systems capable of recording and reporting accurately all
assets, liabilities and financial transaction;
a system capable of providing timely and accurate fmancial management information and reports
for purpose of project monitoring and management; and
an accounting system capable of producing timely financial statement for purpose of audits.
Implementation Arrangements.
The RSDP will be managed and implemented with each agencies being responsible for its portion of the
sector. The MRH will then have the overall responsibility for coordinating all the activities within the
sector. In line with this the financial management systems and capacities of all the entities, namely MRH,
DUR, GHA and DFR, which are expected to implement the RSDP and manage their individual special
accounts and financial reporting, were assessed and an action plan developed and discussed with the
Ministry. This was done using a financial appraisal checklist developed by LCR, interviews and review of
documents. The assessment is available in the project file.
Present Accounting Staff and Functions in MRH and its Agencies.
The accounting staff of MRH and its agencies are mainly staff of the C&AG department and their
functions are restricted to the disbursement and expenditure payment recording and reporting of GOG
budgeted resources through the government treasury systern. In addition to the staff from the C&AG, one
agency, DUR, has recruited an additional staff funded throuagh a previous project to enable them meet the
World Bank's financial management requirements. GHA has also recruited additional staff to enhance its
ability to manage its own financial resources and meet the Bank's financial management requirements.
However DFR has relied on AMISU, a project unit, to provide any additional services required. This
practice has not allowed DFR to strengthen it's accounting functions and capabilities, and thus DFR will
require substantial assistance to bring it up to the required standard.
Although some of the agencies in the road sector have built some capacity over the time, the responsibilities
for financial management and accounting of IDA resources have been vested in a separate project
coordinating unit, AMISU. In parallel to this arrangement, some of the agencies have still maintained
adequate information on disbursements under the IDA resources and provided financial reports. This has
resulted in the duplication of work in some cases. To ensure efficient use of resources and adequate
capacity utilization within MRH and its agencies, the role of AMISU (to be phased out by the end of the
HSIP), has been changed from being the financial manage.rs of an IDA funded project to a unit that will
train staff of the Ministry and its agencies in World bank disbursement procedures.
MRH and its agencies do not have one uniform or Ministry-specific accounting procedures manual to guide
- 47 -



them in their accounting recording and processing. What is used in the MRH, its agencies and most MDAs
as guide for their financial management is the country's Financial Administration Decree (FAD) and
Financial Administration Regulation (FAR). Although these documents have been found to be adequate as
a broad policy and framework documents, they will require adaptation to meet any particular Ministry's
need. Some ministries have used the FAD and FAR as a guide to develop their own specific procedures
manual and MRH will be required to come out with such a manual. This accounting procedures manual
will then guide the Ministry and its agencies, in their accounting processing requirements, reporting
relationships, monitoring roles, as well as the use of standardized formats in their reporting requirements.
Auditing Arrangements
The audit of the program will be conducted annually and carried out by independent and qualified auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The audit will cover the whole program of the Ministry and will include all
resources received into the Ministry from both GOG and donor resources. The selection of auditors shall
be on a competitive basis in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for selection of consultants. The audit
report will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the end of the reporting period. The terms of
reference for the audit will require the auditors to provide separate opinions on: (i) the project financial
statements to ensure that program funds have been used in accordance with the DCA; (ii) that the SOEs
submitted for reimbursement during the year, are properly supported by formal contracts and invoices and
other relevant documents; (iii) that all the Special Accounts opened under the program have been operated
in accordance with IDA procedures and have been used for the payment of eligible expenditures. Audit
costs may, when necessary, be financed under the Credit.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
The Bank has introduced a new initiative, the Financial Management Initiative (FMI) formerly known as
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). This initiative has been formally launched in Ghana. It is
expected that all projects will comply fully with this new requirement at the start of implementation or put
in place an action plan to ensure compliance in 12 to 18 months of commencement of implementation. FMI
requires projects to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in the areas of finance and
procurement including contract details and project progress.
The Quarterly Financial Reports; will consist of Sources of Funds and their Uses of Funds, Statement of
Uses of Funds by Project Activity, Project Cash Withdrawals, Special Account Reconciliation Statement
and a six months Project Cash Forecast;
Quarterly Project Progress Report; will consist of an Output Monitoring Report on Contract Management
and on Unit of Output by project activity;
Quarterly Procurement Management Report; will consist of procurement process monitoring for goods
and works and that for consultants' services, and contract expenditure reports for goods, works and
consultants' services.
The project will not be able to produce all the required project management reports immediately at
effectiveness date. An action plan to ensure that MRH and its agencies fully meet all the financial
management requirements of the Bank including the new FMI-PMR has been agreed and implementation
has commenced. The action plan is included in the project file and PIM.
- 48 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Procurement
1. Ghana's Procurement Environment
The World Bank conducted Country Procurement Assessment Reports (CPAR) in 1985 and 1996, a
consultant report in 1997, and a Country Portfolio Perforrnance Review (CPPR) in 1998. These reports
cite factors contributing to weaknesses in the public procurement practices, including (i) lack of a
comprehensive legal framework, (ii) lack of uniform and codified procurement procedures and regulations,
(iii) weak capacity of procurement staff, and (iv) loose institutional and organizational arrangements for
collective decision making in awarding of contracts. Some of the unacceptable features in the current
public procurement practices highlighted in the reports are (i) extensive use of the sole source method for
selection of consultants, (ii) extensive and repetitive use of shopping procedures, often including the same
firms, (iii) unclear procedures for opening of bids and criteria for bid evaluation and contract award, (iv)
post contract negotiations, (v) mandatory use of the state insurance company for goods contracts, and (vi)
over-centralization of procurement in Accra. The reports recommend a comprehensive procurement reform
for Ghana. This recommendation was also endorsed in the 1999 CDF initiative document for Ghana.
These problems have arisen in part because Ghana's procurement procedures and regulations are scattered
in various legal documents and circulars, which often are not clear, contradictory and subject to
misinterpretation. There also are no mechanisms for monitoring procurement or for dealing with
complaints. As the Government does not yet have a comprehensive procurement code for the procurement
of goods, works and services by Government ministries and agencies, most entities implementing
donor-financed projects follow the Banks guidelines for works and goods contracts below ICB thresholds
and for selection of consultants. To remedy these problems, the Government is in the process of developing
rationalized and codified public procurement procedures and regulations, which will be applicable to all
public procurement entities. The resulting streamlined procedures and regulations for procurement of
goods, works, and services, and monitoring system will ensure proper utilization and developmental impact
of public resources.
The on-going procurement reforms are financed by an IDA credit under the Public Finance Management
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2952-GH). In 1999 the Government established, in MOF, a
Procurement Policy Oversight Group (PPOG) to oversee the process of the preparation and implementation
of public procurement reforms in Ghana. The PPOG selected consultants to prepare a Procurement
Reforms Proposal (PRP). In order to ensure that the PRP is not just as a desk exercise, the TOR required
the consultants to liaise with stakeholders in the public and private sectors, paying due attention to
consultation, participation and ownership. It is expected that a new procurement code and law will be
implemented by September 30, 2001.
In the absence of a national procurement code, procurement procedures to be followed by the implementing
agencies are described in the in the Project Implementation Manual. Registration/classification of
contractors may be used for establishing bidder qualification or for preparing a list for use under quotation
procedure, but not as criteria for bidding or for award of contract. A draft of these procedures, which
includes thresholds for use of the various procurement mrethods, thresholds and institutional arrangements
for decision making on contract awards, and amendments and procedures for disposal of assets, was
- 49 -



reviewed at appraisal and found satisfactory. The procurement procedures in the Manual will be amended
to be consistent the new national code when the code becomes available.
2. Use of Bank Guidelines
All works and goods financed under the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised
September 1997 and January 1999. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will include: (a) an
explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) national advertising with public bid
opening; (c) award to the lowest evaluated responsive and qualified bidder; and (d) a statement that foreign
bidders will not be precluded from participation in NCB.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all ICB (and with appropriate
amendments for all NCB) for works and goods. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) will
be used for all consulting assignments. Each time an agency initiates procurement/selection of consultants,
it will use the latest version of the SBD/SRFP, incorporating any addenda issued by the Bank. The detailed
procedures to be followed are described in the Project Implementation Manual. Domestic preference will
be allowed for ICB contracts.
3. Advertising
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations Development Business
(UNDB) as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN will be updated on a yearly basis and show all
outstanding ICB and all consulting services estimated to cost US$200,000 or more. Specific Procurement
Notices (SPN) will be required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB procedures and Requests
for Expressions of Interest (EOI) for consultant contracts with an estimated cost of US$100,000 or more
prior to preparation of the short list SPNs will (as a minimum) be published in a newspaper of wide
national circulation. Consultant contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more will be advertised in
UNDB.
4. Procurement Capacity
A procurement capacity assessment of all implementing agencies was conducted in 2000 and the report
updated during project appraisal. The summary assessment (copy in the project file) shows a medium risk
for this program. The Project Implementation Manual will indicate the capacity available in each
implementing agency, any shortfalls, and how the Government will address the shortfalls, to ensure project
implementation will not be impaired. MRH and its road agencies, DFR, DUR and GHA have implemented
several Bank projects and are familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures.
5. Procurement Plans
The MRH has prepared a Global Procurement Plan by aggregating the plans of each implementing agency
for the whole project period. Each implementing agency has prepared a detailed annual Procurement Plan
for the first year of the project showing contract packages, and for each package its estimated cost and
procurement method and time to completion. These plans will be finalized and agreed with IDA before
effectiveness and incorporated into the final Project Implementing Manual. Two months prior to the start
of each subsequent fiscal year, MRH, in consultation with the road agencies, will submit up-dated versions
- 50 -



of the Global Procurement Plan and the annual Procurement Plan in respect of the following year. Each
quarter MRH and the road agencies will submit a procurernent process monitoring report to IDA as part of
the Project Management Report (PMR). The report will indicate how each contract in the Procurement
Plan has progressed. The Project Implementation Manual has sample procurement formats.
6. Project Implementation Arrangements
Procurement of works and goods and the selection of consultants, including procurement planning, will be
the responsibility of the various implementing agencies under the project. MRH will be responsible for
coordinating the project implementation, including ensuring procurement planning and preparation of
progress reports. Each agency will track the accumulation. of contracts under each procurement method
and MRH will consolidate the information on a quarterly basis so as to ensure that the aggregate amounts
under the non-ICB procurement methods are not exceeded.
The project will also finance a number of activities and investments for communities. The project does not
envisage delegation of procurement and financial responsibility to communities. However, for investments
that would involve decisions by and participation of conmmunities, the implementing agencies will assist
communities to play their respective roles. Community participation in procurement may be allowed under
community-based activities.
7. Scope of Procurement and Procurement Methods
Works (US$170.00 million). Contracts for civil works estimated to cost individually US$2 million or
more will be procured using ICB procedures. Works estimated to cost between US$50,000 and US$2
million equivalent per contract (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$58 million) shall be procured
using NCB. Under NCB procedures, limited bidding procedure on the basis of simplified bidding
documents may be used by soliciting quotations/bids from not fewer than three qualified contractors. Small
contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$2
million) may be procured by way of soliciting quotations through written invitations from not fewer than
three qualified contractors. Registration/classification of contractors may be used to identify contractors
for such small contracts. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, basic
specifications, the required completion date, a simple forrm of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and
relevant drawings where applicable. In all cases the award of contract shall be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract.
Goods (US$20.85 million). The project will finance vehicles, office and field equipment and computers.
To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be purchased under the project shall be
combined into packages worth at least US$200,000. Pac]kages estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more will be procured under ICB procedures using Bank Standard Bidding Documents.
Contracts estimated to cost US$30,000 to US$200,000 equivalent (up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$6 million) will be procured by NCB. Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that
cannot be grouped together and estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent (up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$1 million) would be procured on the basis of comparison of quotations from at
least three eligible suppliers. Requests for such quotations will include a clear description/specification and
quantity of the goods; as well as requirements for delivery time, place of the delivery or services, including
any installation requirements as appropriate. Altematively such goods may also be procured from UN
Agencies (e.g., LAPSO) provided each such contract does not exceed US$100,000.
- 51 -



Spare parts and accessories (up to an aggregate amount of US$2 million) which are of proprietary nature
may with prior approval of IDA, be procured under contracts negotiated directly with the
manufactures/suppliers or their authorized agents.
Consulting Services/Training (US$29.15 million). Consulting services fall in the following main
categories: engineering design and economic feasibility of investments; management studies; financial and
technical audits; training course delivery; and provision of specialized skills through technical assistance
arrangements. Consultants financed by IDA will be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants, as revised through January 1999. MRH and each of its
agencies will handle the procurement process relevant to its part of the RSDP. Consulting assignments
expected to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of short lists featuring only
local fimns. Assigmnents in excess of US$100,000, and specialized technical assistance assignments, must
be procured on the basis of short lists featuring international invitations.
As a rule, consultant services will be selected though the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
methodology. All consulting assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more will be
advertised in UNDB and in at least one newspaper with wide national circulation. In addition, for very
specialized assignments, the contracts may be advertised in specific international newspapers or magazines
seeking Expressions of Interest (EOI). In the case of assignments estimated to cost between US$100,000
and US$200,000 the assignment will be advertised nationally and the short list may be made up entirely of
national consultants, provided that at least three qualified national consultants are available in the country
and that foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. Short lists for
consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 may be prepared without
advertising for EOI. Consulting assignments costing less than US$50,000 may procured by comparing the
qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest in the job or who have been identified.
Auditors will be selected using Least Cost Selection procedures, provided such audits do not include
technical audits.
Training programs are geared toward building capacity and improving management and skills of staff of
MRH and its road agencies. These training programs will be part of the Project's Annual Work Plans to be
prepared in accordance with procedures specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
8. IDA Review
All contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more in the case of Goods contracts, and US$1,000,000 or
more in the case of works contracts will be subject to IDA review of bidding documents (including
technical specifications) prior to inviting for bids and IDA review of bid evaluation reports prior to contract
award. Since the average size of works contracts for feeder roads is relatively small, the prior review
threshold for DFR works contracts has been fixed at US$500,000.
The TOR for all consulting assignments, irrespective of value, will be subject to IDA prior review. For
consulting contracts where the estimated value is US$100,000 or more in the case of firms, and US$50,000
or more in the case of individuals, the draft Request for Proposals (RFP) and the short list of consultants
must be cleared by IDA prior to inviting proposals from consultants. In addition, the evaluation of
technical proposals must be cleared with IDA before the financial proposals of the qualifying firms are
opened. All the procedures in Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines will apply to consulting contracts.
Training programs will be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval, as will be workshops, before
they are implemented.
- 52 -



Contracts that are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during project
implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines.
Since three procurement specialists are based in the Ghana Country Office, there will be continuous
procurement supervision throughout the implementation period. Bi-annual supervision missions will
provide detailed oversight of procurement and related proj ect implementation issues.
9. Procurement Audits
Not later than three months after the end of each financial year, MRH will have prepared a procurement
audit report, by consultants selected in accordance with the Guidelines for selection of consultants and
TOR incorporated in the Project Implementation Manual.
10. Contract Management and Expenditure Reports
As part of the PMR, MRH and the road agencies will submit contract management and expenditure
information in quarterly reports to IDA.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB          Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            110.00            60.00         180.40        692.60      1043.00
(110.00)         (58.00)        (2.00)        (0.00)     (170.00)
2. Goods                             12.00            5.85           3.00          0.00        20.85
(12.00)          (5.85)        (3.00)         (0.00)      (20.85)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00          22.07         50.00        72.07
(0.00)          (0.00)        (22.07)        (0.00)      (22.07)
4. Training                          0.00             0.00           7.08          0.00        7.08
(0.00)          (0.00)         (7.08)        (0.00)      (7.08)
5. Program Management                0.00             0.00           0.00         48.00        48.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                             122.00           65.85         212.55        790.60      1191.00
(122.00)         (63.85)       (34.15)        (0.00)     (220.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the arnounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
W Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing the project. Operating costs means expenses incurred with respect to
project management and monitoring including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision
costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
- 53 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
: :-a!0 SeleCtion Q M ethd 
ifExpendIturei Cateoryt 0 QCB$sSS  OBSt0  lQ tSIBl  LCt  XS   C O t X      Othr;     N.B. fTotalCost
A. Firms                18.67    0.00      0.00     0.60      0.00     0.50    50.00      69.77
(18.67)  (0.00)  i(O.00)   (0.60)   (0.00)   (0.50)   (0.00)   (19.77)
B. Individuals           0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      2.30     0.00      2.30
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (2.30)   (0.00)    (2.30)
Total  18.67    0.00      0.00     0.60      0.00     2.80    50.00      72.07
(18.67)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.60)    (0.00)   (2.80)   (0.00)    (22.07)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure             Contract Value                  Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category                (Threshold)                      Method                  Prior Review 1/
(Estimated total value
subject to prior review)
Works                   US$2,000,000 or above                 ICB                     All contracts
US$1,000,000 - US$2,000,000             NCB                      All contracts
US$500,000 - US$ 1,000,000              NCB                   All DFR Contracts
US$100,000 - US$500,000                NCB                        None
Below US$50,000                 Price Quotation                None
Goods                   US$200,000 or above                   ICB                     All contracts
LIB will be used only if there is
a limited number of suppliers
US$50,000 - US$200,000                NCB                     First 2 contracts
Below US$30,000                   Shopping                     None
Services                US$200,000 or above          QCBS (international advert)      All contracts
- 54 -



tJSS I 00,000 - USS200,000         QCBS (National advert)             All contracts
Below USS100,000, firms           QCBS[LCS/CV/individual              Only TOR
Below US$50,000, individuals             CV/individual                  Only TOR
Total value of
contracts           USS155 million (70%)
subject to prior
review:
1/ All single source consulting assignments and all TORs for consulting services irrespective of value are
subject to prior review.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C shows the allocations of the proceeds of the Credit. The proceeds of the IDA Credit of US$220
million will be disbursed over the Project period, i.e., from the date of effectiveness to June 30, 2006. A
period of four months will be allowed after the closing date to request disbursements for expenditures
incurred prior to the closing date.
Disbursements of IDA funds will be for 100% of consultant services, and 100% of foreign and 90% of
local costs for all other categories as shown below. The Borrower will put an amount equivalent to the
local share into a project account at the project start. This will avoid a major source of insecurity and
delay in contract execution associated with faltering counterpart funding from the Consolidated Budget.
The Consolidated Budget is nearly completely absent from the financing and disbursement arrangements of
the RSDP, being engaged only in the provision of parts of the operating costs (mainly civil service payroll)
of the MRH and its agencies. Opposed to this is the performance of the Road Fund, which leads to
appraising its contribution to the RSDP financing as "assured".
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Categorty       Amount In US$mltiion4        Fiancing Percentage
(1) Civil works:                           2.00                 100% foreign, 90% local
(a) For MRH
(1) Civil works                            63.50                100% foreign, 90% local
(b) For GHA
(1) Civil works                            31.30                100% foreign, 90% local
(c) For DFR
(1) Civil works                            52.45                100% foreign, 90% local
(d) For DUR
(2) Goods                                  3.17           100% foreign, 100% local (ex-factory
(a) For MRH                                                      cost), 90% other local
(2) Goods                                  6.00           100% foreign, 100% local (ex-factory
(b) For GHA                                                      cost), 90% other local
(2) Goods                                  1.50           100% foreign, 100% local (ex-factory
(c) For DFR                                                      cost), 90% other local
(2) Goods                                  3.54           100% foreign, 100% local (ex-factory
(d) For DUR                                                      cost), 90% other local
(3) Consulting Services and Training       8.34                          100
(a) For MRH and MoTC
(3) Consulting Services and Training       3.50                          100
(b) For GHA                                    _
(3) Consulting Services and Training       5.20                          100
(c) For DFR
(3) Consulting Services and Training       7.00                         100
(d) For DUR
(4)Program Costs (Operating costs)         2.50                 100% foreign, 90% local
(5) Unallocated                            30.00
Total Project Costs                       220.00
- 56 -



|Total                            |        220.00        l
Operating costs means expenses incurred with respect to project management and monitoring including office
supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil
service.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for all expenditures will be against full documentation except for contracts less than US$1
million equivalent each for works, with a lower limit of US$500,000 for DFR; US$200,000 equivalent
each for goods; and US$100,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 for individuals, training and
incremental operating costs for which disbursements would be based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the borrower at the respective implementing
agency for review by IDA missions and extemal auditors. All expenditures above the indicated thresholds
will be eligible for direct payment.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement, four special accounts (SA), one each for MRH, GHA, DFR, and DUR, will be
established at commercial banks acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation of the SAs for MRH,
DFR and DUR will be US$ 1,000,000 each, whilst that for GHA will be US$2,000,000. An initial deposit
of US$500,000 to cover four months of eligible expenditure, will be paid into the SAs of MRH, DFR and
DUR and US$1,000,000 of GHA upon effectiveness of the Credit, and the remaining balance paid when
aggregate disbursement under the project exceeds SDR 20 million. Further deposits by IDA will be made
into these SAs against duly completed withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
- 57 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Proec Scheidule                                   P000 0landS                  Actual0 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             11/01/99                     11/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                     01/08/2001                   01/08/2001
Negotiations                                    07/26/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/01/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Roads and Highways
Preparation assistance:
Dr. Charles Andoh, Environmental Consultant, C;HA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Imnogene Jensen                   Senior Economist, Team Leader
Snorri Hallgrimsson               Lead Engineer
Gerhard Tschannerl                Lead Engineer
Tawia Addo-Ashong                 Highway Engineer
Susanne Holste                    Senior Transport Specialist, Rural Transport
Mbuba Mbungu                      Senior Procurement Specialist
Kofi Awanyo                       Procurement Specialist
Frederick Yankey                  Financial Management Specialist
K.S. Manu                         Consultant, Financial Management
Elizabeth Rankin                  Consultant, Transport Economist
Robert Fishbein                   Consultant, Transport Economist
Okwudili Ikejiani                 Consultant, Highway Engineer
Anji Katz                         Consultant, Environmental Specialist
Farida Khan                       Operations Analyst
Ntombie Chimuka                   Team Assistant
Belinda Asaam                     Team Assistant
Karen A. Hudes                    Senior Counsel
- 58 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Project Implementation Plan
Proposalfor Road Sub-Sector Investment Programme (RSIP)
(by Ministry of Roads and Transport)
Strategic Plan 2000 - 2004
(by Ministry of Roads and Transport)
Road Sub-Sector Report Manual - Volume I
(by Ministry of Roads and Transport)
Road Sub-Sector Report Manual - Sample Quarterly Report - Volume II
(by Ministry of Roads and Transport)
Road Sub-Sector Report Manual - Sample Annual Report - Volume III
(by Ministry of Roads and Transport)
2000 Road Maintenance Programme
Proposalfor Road Sector Development Programme (RSDP), 2001-2003, Ministry of Roads and
Transport, December 2000.
Programme Implementation Manualfor the Ministry of Roads and Highways and its Road Agencies
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Capacity Assessment and Action Plan
Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan, April 27, _2001
Development of a Feeder Road Prioritization Method, Working Documents, Department of Feeder
Roads, January 2001
Memo on Tax Revenues, May/June 2001
1999, 1998 and 1997 Annual Reports
(by Ministry of Roads and Transport)
*Including electronic files
- 59 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Rev'd
P000968        2001 AGRIC SERVICES                                       0.00      67.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      86.03       27.89       0.00
P071617        2001 Ghana AIDS Response Project (umbrella)               0.00      25.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      25.43        0.00       0.00
P050624        2000 URBAN 5                                              0.00      10.83       0.00       0.00       0.00       10.51       0.00       0.00
P050616        2000 COMMUNrrY WATER II                                   0.00      25.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       21.39      -2.39       0.00
P069465        2000 RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT                     0.00       5.13       0.00       0.00       0.00       5.06        2.74       0.00
P050615        1999 PUB.SECTOR MNGT.PROG                                 0.00      14.30       0.00       0.00       0.00        8.10       4.33       0.00
P000970        1999 TRADE GATEWAY & INV.                                 0.00      50.50       0.00       0.00       0.00       43.66      14.66       0.00
P000974        1999 NAT FUNC LIT PROG                                    0.00      32.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      29.06        7.47       0.00
P040659        1999 COMMUNITY DEV.                                       0.00       5.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       4.80        1.97       0.00
P040557        1999 ERSO II                                              0.00     178.20       0.00       0.00       0.00      45.61        1.58       0.00
P045188        1998 FOREST BIODIVERSITY                                  0.00       0.00       0.00      10.00       0.00        6.98       1.38       0.00
P000946        1998 NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                                   0.00       9.30       0.00       0.00       0.00       4.55        4.95       0.00
P000949        1998 HEALTH SCTR SUPPORT                                  0.00      35.00       0,00       0.00       0.00        6.10      -3.54       0.00
P041150        1997 VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE                               0.00      30.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       18.93       4.39       0.00
P045568        1997 PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                                  0.00      20.90       0.00       0.00       0.00       12.31      13.65       0.00
P042516        1996 PUBUC ENTERPRISE/PR                                  0.00      26.45       0.00       0.00       0.00       13.04      12.94       0.00
P000975        1996 BASIC EDUCATION                                      0.00      50.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       17.37      20.67       0.00
P000957        1996 HighwaySeclorlnvestment Program                      0.00     100.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      21.54       37.67       0.00
P000943        1996 NON-BANK FIN INS AST                                 0.00      23.90       0.00       0.00       2.66        8.09      13.62       0.00
P000973        1996 URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION                       0.00      71.00       0.00       0.00        0.00     23.70       30.29       0.00
P000948        1995 EDUCNOC.TRNG                                         0.00       9.60       0.00       0.00       0.00        1.80       2.54       1.69
P000926        1995 THERMAL (P-VII)                                      0.00     175.60       0.00       0.00       0.00      28.37       34.78      34.07
P000966        1995 MININGSEC.DEV&ENV                                    0.00      12.30       0.00       0.00       0.00        1.15       2.84       0.00
P000962        1996 FISHERIES                                            0.00       9.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        1.83       2.30       0.00
P000936        1994 LOCAL GOVr DEV.                                      0.00      38.50       0.00       0.00       0.00        6.45       7.23       0.00
Total:        0.00    1,024.51       0.00    10.00         2.66      431.87     243.97      35.76
- 60 -



GHANA
STATEMENT O]F IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1993               AEF Afariwaa                  0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990               AEF Alugan                    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               AEF CFL                       0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Dupaul Wood               0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              AEF NCS                        0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00
1997              AEF PTS                        0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00
1991              AEF Packrite                   0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF PharTnaCare               0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Shangri-la                0.97    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.97    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Tacks Farms               0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/89/91/93      Bogosu                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91/93         Cont Acceptances              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
GAGL                          2.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/96         GHANAL                        0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00
1991               GMCC                          0.00    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Ghana Leasing                 0.48    0.73    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.73    0.00    0.0(
Hotel Inv. Ghana              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Wahome Steel                  0.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.87    0.00    0.00    0.0(
1991/92
1989/92
Total Portfolio:        6.63     1.30    0.98    0.00     6.63    1.17    0.98    0.00
Approvals Pending Cormmitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              SSB                              10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              AEF Computer Sch                  0.23     0.00      0.00      0.00
1995              AEF GHANA PACK                   0.36      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF Garden Court                 1.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF Japan Motors                  1.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              ELAC                              0.00     0.00      0.25      0.00
2000              GAGL IV-Restr                     0.00     0.54      0.00      0.00
2000              Ghana Telecom                    40.00     0.00      0.00     60.00
Total Pending Commitment:       53.59      0.54      0.25    60.00
- 61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Saharan       Low-                     __    _ _
Ghana      Africa   Incomre       Development diamond'
1999
Pouiatinn. mid-vear (imtiOnnl                             1R 9        B47      7 417                   Life expectancy
GNP Der canita (Atlas method. US$)                         390        500        410
(-.NP (Atlas method, USS billionsl                         7 r        321        988
Averaoe annual arowth. 1993-99
Pnn,ilAtin %                                               P f        7          1 9 a 
Labor forco (%/                                            2 B        2.B        2.3      GNP                                 Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimate (ataest vear available. 1199399                                      capita                          AnrnilmAnt
Povnrtv % of ooouaetion below national oovertv linel
Urban nooulation (% of total oooulationl                    38         34         31
l ife oxnerta4nrv at birth (vears)                          f,11       sn         At
Infant mortalitv (oar 1000 live births)                     65         92         77
Child mnlnuitrition (14 of children under 51                97         32         43                 Access to safe water
Aces- to imnrnvd Rwater or-en (1 of oonulationl             8fi        43         f4
Illiteracv (% of Dooulation aaa 15+i                        30         39         39
Grnos  rimarv nrnllment t%a of school-aoe ooou/ationl       79         7t         9f             Ghana -      Low-income group
Male                                                      84        aS         102
Female                                                    74         71         8f1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
`1979    1989        1998      1999                      -__
Economic ratios*
GPfUSS hillionsl                                  4 0)     5 7         7 5       7 8
Gross domestic intvestment/GDP                   6.5      13,2       23.5       23.2
Fxnnrtc nf nnndrs and servicersGrP               11 2     1fi 7      33A         336                       Trade
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                       6.6       5.6       1017        6 2
Gross national savinonq/lP                        62 7     72        1RR        12 4
Current account balance/GDP                      110       -6.0       -4.7     -10.5      Domestc
Interest oAvmentslGnTP                           0 7       1 1         1 R       1 i        oesic                        I nvestment
Tolal deHhtIGDP                                 31 9      64 7       87 9 q     A         Savings
Total debt service/oxoorts                        829     32.1       21.f       20 1
Prespnt value nf dabt/GOP                                            53 A       So 7
Pres0nt value of debt/exocrts                                       1 156.1    151 7
Indebtedness
1979-89  19S9-99      l998       1999   1993-03
(avecato annual crowthl
GnP                                     72 0     4         4 7        4 4        A 1              Ghana        Low-income group
GNP oar canita                          0'S       1 9      2.1         2 2       2. 6
Fxnnrtc nf nnnod And  ervices          -03      16 R       A 4        175        7 1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989        1998      1999       Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOPI
Aoriculture                                     60 0      49 0       36.0       35 6
Industrv                                        12.3      16.7       25.3       25.3      to
Manufacturina                                   a.7  10.0                  9 8             _
Services                                        27.8      34.3       38.7       39.1       o       -                97   98   go
Private rcnsu,mntion                            83.1      84.5       78.9       82.9    -10
General oovernment consumDtion                   10.3      9.8        10.3      10 8                -GDI          -      GDP
I mnnrtc of onndc ancd qarires                   11 2     24 3       46 7       50 55
1979-89  1989-99        1998      1999       Growth of exports and imports (-)
/averaoe annual orowfh)
Anrir.iltiire                                    0 .i      3 0         5 1       4 9      45
Indrlctrv                                         11       2.5         3                  30  
Manufacturino                                   1.6      -4.5        4.1       650
Se-rvice                                          4 S      5 4         i          2 2     15  
Private consumotion                               1.8      4.0         3.4      15491                                        
General1 nvernmAnt -.n,simntinn       7           2        44        -175       11 9                          9S    97    98   go
Gross domestic investment                        0.6       3.7         9.0       4 7     _15
mosnnrN of -onsd and sarvires                   -1 A       9 3         2 3      1270                   Exports      *Impons
Grnos natinnal nrnducrt                           1 .      4 7         4.8       4 8I
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin boldt comoared with its income-orouo averace If data are missino. the diamond will
he inc-mnlat.
- 62 -



Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                       6
(% change)                                                                           60
Consumer prices                                         25.2       19.3      12.4    40
Implicit GDP deflator                          37.9     28.3       16.0      14.0
20
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o--- -         _.          , -
Current revenue                                10.5     13.6       20.5      20.2             94    95    96    97   95 B     9
Current budget balance                         -4.1      2.5        3.3       4.7                   GDP deflator  -"".CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -5.3       -8.1      -6.0
TRADE
1979     1989       1998      1999        p   al
(US$ millions)                                                                       : Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            913      808      2,091      2,099     4.000
Cocoa                                                  408        622       550
Timber                                                  81        171       174     3000
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                            853    1,087       3,167     3,556     2,000'_"                 E
Food                                                    42                          1o_a_
Fuel and energy                               176      161        220       342
Capital goods                                         1190                          j
93   94   95   96  97   98   99
Exoort once index (1995=1001                    46        89        98        91
Imoort nrice index (1995=100)                   26        94        88        90                   Exports      trmports
Terms of trade (1995=100J                      179        95       111       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998      1999      -
(US$ millions)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 1,163     879       2,532    2,567       '                  mow,
Imports of goods and services                 1,061    1,278      3,491     3,865
Resource balance                               101      -399      -958    -1,298
-6 ._ F          
Net income                                     -58  -118  -136  -138                         i   11111
Net current transfers                           -3       202       741       620
Current account balance                         41      -315      -353      -816      -12
Financing items (net)                          -72      442        453       722
Changes in net reserves                         31      -127      -100        94      -is
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millions)         401      436        508       446
Conversion rate (DEC. ocallUSS                 7.0    270.0    2,314.0   2.647.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(USS millionsl                                                                        Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,282    3,397      6,193     6,297
IBRD                                          93      114         27        18                      G:295  A-27
IDA                                           95    1,030      2,963     3,099
Total debt service                             104       285       560       522                 Al           --
IBRD                                          10        19         4        10
IDA                                            1         8        32        41        E: 1,987
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                      B 2,963
Official grants                               32      208        239       159
Official creditors                           101      275        349       126
Private creditors                              -6      54        -10       115
Foreign direct investment                      -3       15        56       203
Portfolio equity                                         0        15        80
C: 321
World Bank program
Commitments                                   19      272         97       256      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 34       168       211       219      B-IDA     D-Otherm.ltilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                           3        11        17        28     iC - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                      31      157        195       191
Interest payments                              8        17        19        23
Net transfers                                 23       141       175       168
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/11/00
- 63 -



Additional
Annex 11
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Environmental and ResettlementlCompensation Framework
Introduction
The RSDP is a follow-on investment to the Highway Sector Improvement Program (HSIP). The overall
approach to the environmental and social management of the new program is to strengthen the EIA system
established under the HSIP. The new project will do so by (a) improving the Ghana Highway Authority's
(GHA) own environmental and social management capacity, and (b) extending the capacity to supervise
and undertake EIAs, and to monitor environmental and social impacts of road rehabilitation activities, to
the Department of Urban Roads (DUR) and Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) in the Ministry of Roads
and Highways.
Environmental and Social Issues of the RSDP
The road projects earmarked for implementation under the RSDP by the three road agencies involve the
maintenance, rehabilitation or reconstruction and upgrading of existing roads. The individual road projects
are expected to follow existing alignments and no radical widening of roads will take place. The
anticipated impact of the RSDP projects on the environment will therefore be minimal. A few sections of
the roads may fall short of the required standard width, due in part to the construction of buildings and
other structures close to the road and within the road reservation. In these cases, some such properties will
have to be demolished to obtain the standard width. The number of such properties is expected to be very
small.
However road projects, if not handled properly, could have negative impacts on the environment, in
addition to the expected positive impacts. Potential adverse impacts could include erosion, siltation,
obstruction of access routes during construction, noise, poor sanitation and waste disposal, surface and
ground water contamination, loss of vegetation and wildlife within the road corridor and land degradation.
Potential indirect impacts could include induced development, increased motorized transportation,
intensification in the use of natural resources and illegal cutting of timber. Positive impacts could include
radical reduction in dust pollution, elimination of hazardous traffic points, savings in transport costs, more
efficient transport of farm product to markets, and increased access to social and health services.
Environmental and Social Management Framework
Mitigation measures directly associated with the adverse impacts are addressed in the Ghana Highway
Authority's Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment of Road Projects in Ghana. These
Guidelines are designed to implement the Government of Ghana's Environmental Policy established
through the passing of the Environmental Protection Act 460 of 1994 and Legislative Instrument 1652 of
1999. These instruments make ELA mandatory for all road projects.
Under the RSDP, GHA's Environmental Unit will continue to ensure that ElAs are prepared and that the
resulting environmental and social mitigation measures are implemented and monitored. The project will
strengthen the Environmental Unit's capacity to implement and monitor these measures and, as indicated
above, extend the scope of its work to include DFR and DUR given the national scope of the new project.
- 64 -



Based on the environmental and social management experience gained under the HSIP, the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP), which includes a resettlement and compensation policy framework, will support
the following activities: (i) environmental and social capacity strengthening, (ii) policy enhancement, and
(iii) environmental and social oversight. As the RSDP adopts a programmatic approach, specific projects
under the program will be identified annually and the environmental and social assessments of each road
will be prepared in keeping with environmental assessment requirements of Ghana and the Bank. During
the RSDP preparation, the selection and design of the first year road rehabilitation and upgrading
components have been guided by pre-feasibility studies which include environmental impact assessments.
Once roads have been identified for possible inclusion in each year's program, social assessments will be
carried out as part of the EIA process. A framework for potential impacts will be prepared for each road to
assess the impacts on people who live along these roads. T'he social assessment will include the
development of a demographic and socio-economic profile of the people in the affected area; assessment of
potential impacts on cultural, social and economic spheres; and suggestion of mitigation plans where
applicable. The compensation/resettlement framework will be applied whenever there is likelihood that
people will be negatively affected and need to receive compensation.
Compensation Framework
It is the policy of the Government of Ghana, embodied in the State Lands Act 1963, to pay compensation to
people whose properties, lands or landed properties are affected by public projects. The Act also provides
avenues for people who are not satisfied with the offered compensation to seek redress. Under the RSDP,
people affected by any proposed road project will be briefed on the compensation/resettlement process.
Each affected person will be given the chance to speak on a draft compensation/resettlement plan, with
particular attention to issues of personal concem. The final compensation and resettlement plan will be
presented to the affected persons and their rights and remedies explained (in particular the appeals process
under Section 4 of the Lands Act). A monitoring team within the Environmental Unit will liaise with all
involved in the compensation/resettlement process (e.g., the Valuation Section, Legal Division and Lands
Valuation Board) to track compliance and timing. The affected persons will be kept informed throughout
the process.
Consultative Framework
The Environmental Unit has an established consultation mechanism/network that allows them to liaise and
coordinate with relevant stakeholders (e.g., EPA, environmental NGOs, forestry departments, affected
individuals) on the environmental and social issues. The Unit will also keep a database of the names and
addresses of all affected individuals to facilitate the monitoring of the resettlement/compensation issues as
noted above.
Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan
A sunimary of the activities, actions, short and long term responsibilities for the RSDP EMP follows.
- 65 -



RSDP Environmental and Social Mitigrt on Plan
Long-Tefn
Short-Teim          Responsible
Monitoring      Authonty to Oversee
Activitv  __ _                 Action Needed                     Responsibilit        & Supervise
1 ENVIRONMENTAL   Extend Environmental Consultants Contract for 24  World Bank, GHA,           MRH
CAPACrIY           months to oversee DFR & DUR                          DFR, DUR
STRENGTHENING
Establish Environment Desk at DFR & DUR             DFR. DUR               MRHi
Designate exishing staff for environmental assignment  DFMR DUR      World Bank with MRH
I1 POLICY          Streamline procurement process                   GHA EU with World    MRH World Bank
ENHANCFMENT                                                               Bank
Coordinate all road environmental management      GHA EU, DFR,            GHA EU
activities (EMA) through GHA EU                        DUR
Commit to long-term support for EMA begun under   World Bank with     GOG (from Road
the HSIP/RSDP as a Policy Mandate                     GOG            Fund and road tolls)
with new possible
assistance from
intemational donors
Support for operations of GHA EU                    World Bank             GOG
Support for mandatory tree replanting along roads and  DFR           MRH, World Bank
as economic opportunity in designated wood-lots
managed with local and women's groups
Support for training and affirmative action to increase    GHA EU with EPA  GHA EU
private sector involvement in the road EMA contract
opportunities
m. ENSURE          Continue supervisory role to interface with GOG EPA   GHA EU                MRH
PHYSICAL WORKS   and coordinate all monitoring activities
ARE ADEQUATELY
MANAGED
Ongoing regular monitoring as set forth in GHA EU  GHA EU, DFR,            MRH
ODerational Manual                                     DUR
IV. TECHNICAL      Training for social aspects of environmental     GHA EU, DFR and        GHA, DFR and
ASSISTANCE         management for all MRH staff                         DUR, EPA             DUR, EPA
Workshop for in-country engineering/envirosnental   Consultant        MRH, DFR, DUR,
finns and experts on how to contract and conduct road                      GHA
sector EMA.
Conduct survey, including results from the number of  GHA EU              GHA EU
participants that attend the workshop, to assess in-
country private-sector capacity to conduct EMA and
develop lone-term training plan
Well established Valuation Section in GHA which  GHA EU with EPA    GHA EU with EPA
supervises/implements road resettlement plans and
compensation for DFR and DUR
Mandatory tree replanting and start-up new source of    GHA EU with EPA    GHA EU with EPA
income from road related activities, emphasizing
management of these activities by contractual
arrangements, especially with women's and local in-
countrv croups
V. COORDINATION   GHA EU assumes coordinating role for hiring and    GHA, DFR, DUR       MRH, World Bank
OF ALL PROJECt     training
CYCLE ASPECTS
GHA EU coordinates with DUR and DFR. Focal       GHA, DFR, DOR             MRH
counterparts in Accra and regional offices on
monitoring_
GHA EU coordinates with other Aeencies              DFR, DUR               MRH
GHA EU assumes coordinating role for hiring of   DFR, GHA, DUR             MRH
contractors
V]. PERMTITING     Streamline environmental studies to get road pennits  GHA EU with EPA       MRH
through GHA EU
- 66 -



Additional
Annex 12
GHANA: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Letter of Sector Policy for Ghana's Road Sub-Sector
I 4:afs of reply tiw nztbc ad _ o                          MINISTRY OF  LOADS
dtb latte should  quAND HIGHWAYS
dL Xv. 66986.                            w      r              P. 0. BOX  M4 38
Pax No. 667114                                                       AGSR.A
?w, Jz5f.      A; te 1;~11119-1 q-1Y"'5                      29 March 2001
re   , ..........................   BLIC  OF  GHANA
MR, JAMES WOLFENSOHN
PRESIDENT
THE WORLD BANK
1818 H STREET, N.W
WASHINGTON, DC 20433
U.S.A.
RE: GHIANA'S ROAD  SUB-SECTOR
POLtCIES AND OBJECTIVES
This letter summarizes the various policy -neasures. which the
Government wilt pursue to implemrent the road sub-sector development
programme and strategy for the penod 2001 - 2005f The letter dleats with:
* the Govemrnment's medium-term economic and social cieveloprrmert
policies;
* the background to the road sub-sector;
u the Government's objectives for the road sub-sector.
- the various road sub-sector policy actions whtch the Governrment.
intends to tackle during the perod up to 2005.
1.   MEDIUM-TERM    ECONOMIC   AND   SOCIAL   DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVES AND POtICIES
These objectives and policies have been designed to suporon tine
Government's long-term vision, whicn aims to see Ghana transformed tntn a
middle-income country. This calls for a transformation of the economy and
society, in order to improve the quality ot life for all Ghanaians. through equitable
distribution of the benefits of development, so as to achiev'e fairly balanced
regional development and to eliminate gross deprivation and hard-core poverty
- 67 -



During the past decade, investment in economic infrastructure - energy,
transport, communIcations, water and housing - has dominated various National
Development Programmes.  The main thrust of the First Medium  Term
Oevwlopnent Plan (19962000) aimed at regaining and sustaining macio-
stability, diversifying the economny, enhancing human resource development
reducing poverty and rgional imbalances in the country. Tthe plan was alse
expected to strengthen the linkages in the economy and britng about a moe
integrated process of growit and development.
The overriding aim of the Government of Ghana's medium term economic
development programfm is the reduction of poverty and general improvement in
the prosperity of Ghanalans. Pnncipal objectives include-
i. Employing measures to manage dept;
ii. A reduction in 1he incidence of poverty in both rural and urban areas:
iii. Strengthened capabilities of the poor and vulnerable to earn income;
iv. Reduced gender, geographical and socio-economic disparities;
v. A healthier, better educated and more productrve population,
vi. Strengthening the private sector, and
vii. Providing access to long term capital for small to medium scale
enterprises.
StraitegIs for Achieving the Objectives
The strategy for poverty reduction lays emphasis on economic growth
integrated rural development. the expansion of employment opportunities atia
improved aess by the rural and urban poor to basic public services such as
education, halth care, water, sanitation and family planning services. Principal
elenents of these strategies include:
i.  Aeolerating sub regional integration;
ii,  Accelerating economic growth through the baanced implementation of
sound fiscal, monetary and other macro economic policies;
iii.  Strengthening the agricultural setor to make it more productive through
the use of moe modem farming methods and marketing practices;
iv,  Broadening and deepening the mnanufacturing and services sectors witil
special attention to agro processing in order to create new business
Opportunities as wel as increase urban and rural employmeiii
opportunities;
v. Increasing investment in human resources through improving the qduality
of and access to nutrition, education, health, water and sanitationi
services:
vi. Encouraging the development of an indigenous entrepreneurial class
through improving access to training, financ-il services, credit and iOcai
and foreign markets; and
-68 -



vii,  Reduce the isolation of poor comMunities through strengthening economic
infrastructure such as roads and communications network
2.   BACKGROUND TO THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR
The Mission of the Ministry of Roads and Highways is to ensure th-
provision of all weather motoraDte roads tnalt m eet ra,;o"al o ectives  ; 
international standards through:
i.  The formulation and implementation of policies that are responsive to t-.
changing needs of the nations
ii. Promoting private sector participation,
i.  Promoting strategic investment in the sector.
iv.  Developing, implementing, monitoring and regulating standards
so as to provide safe, reliable, effitcient and affordable services for road transpo:
users. In doing this, the Ministry of Roads andi Highways will recruit. train z:vlz
retain highly skilled human resources,
In 1996 government issued a policy letter for the road sub-sector whicri
among others aimed at the clearance of the! road maintenance backlog ana
stabilize the road network condition mix at 70Ja GOOD, 20% FAIR and not more
than 10% POOR by the year 2005. As at 2000 the road condition mix thad
improved from 20% Good. 19% Fair, 61 % Poor in 1997 to 29% Good: 27% ,Ficr
44% Poor. Also the Road Fuand has been re-structured through an Act oQ
Parliament to ensure a sustainable funding of the road maintenance prograrnr.-
3.   OBJECTIVES FOR THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR
'The goveemment's principal objective in the road sub-sector will
continue to focus on improving the road network condition mix to 70%
good, 20% fair and not more than 10% poor by 2005 and manage the road
network on a sustainable basis.  ro this end, the following specific
objectives will underline government investment in the road sub-sector:
i  Develop in-country capacity for goverinment institutions and the private
sector to coordinate and manage the road network efficiently,
ii.  Ensure sustainable funding for the road sub-sector programme
iii.  Base road sub-sector investment decislions on sound socio-economic anci
environmental principles that are sustainable.
iv. Enhance the operational efficiency of the road network to promote
economic growth and the delivery of social services-
- 69 -



v.  Reduce gender, regional and socioeconomic disparities in access to
transport to help achieve poverty reduction, nationat integration, unity anti
stability;
vi. Integrate the road network with other modes of transport, which aims at wl
efficient transport system,
vi.  Develop a comprehensive roadt safety programine to reduce a 
transport fatalities,
viii. Mitigate the negative environmental and social impact of road related
activities.
4.   PROPOSED POLICY ACTION
In order to operationalise the specific objectives, the following Policy
Actions will be implemented under the various specific objectives.
i. Develop in-country capacity for government institutions and ti&e
private sector to coordinate and manage the road network efficiently.
a)   Training:
* Strengthen the institutional capacity of MRH and other road
agencies through staff training;
* Improve the capacity of the local construction indusiry througn
training, in both technical and business management subiec!n
using relevant institutions.
* Improve the capacity and the skills of the local consulting firmts
in highway engineering and management in collaboration with
local training institutions.
b)   Technology Transfer:
Ghana has increasingly depended on foreign technical assistance
to carry out its accelerated development programmes. The gradtlXUz
transter of work to Ghanaian nationals anticipated under th-se
programmes. together with associated transfer of technology is stii
not satisfactory, Government's policy is therefore to enhance the
sustainability of its deveiopment projects by intemalizing as much
of the preparation, implementation, operation and management of
its development projects and minimizing long term foreign technical
assistance and creating the right incentives to retain qualified and
experienced local personnel.
- 70 -



C)   Decentralisation:
In line with governments  stated policy of decentralization the
Department of Feeder Roads iDFR) and the Department of Urban
Roads  (DUR) will continue  to  systeinatically  transfer  thle
maintenance operations of feeder ano urban roads io the relevvt 
DistricL, Municipal and Metropolitan AssembnTies
d)    Road Safety:
Ilmpementation of the National Road Safety Cornmisslon and
Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority Acts through the
establishment of the governing bodlies to coordinate all road salety
activities in the country
e)    Contract Management:
Ministry of Roads and Highways an d its road '- aenietV wP!ll rnp:
the existing Contract Management Systems wzthiin the sub-sector ,so
ensuire effective supervision, monitoring and control of road
contracts.
f)    Accounting and Management Information Systems:
Ministry  of Roads  and  Highways will develop  appropriate
Accounting and Management Information Systems within MRH and
its agencies for efficient and effective financial and prograrmn-e:
management.
g)    Donor Coordination:
Government will confinue with effective donor co-ordination while
relating with other stakeholders in the Private Sector and Civil
Society under the Comprehensive Deveiopment Framework (CDF)
h)   International Pattnerships:
Ministry of Roads and Hightways will con,4nue to uarlicipaie iin
inernational partnerships in the road sector sjch as Sub-Sahaiair.
African Transport Programme (SSATPi such as Road Management
Initiative (RMI), Rural Travel and Transport Programme (RTTP)
Urban Mobility (UM), Trade and Transport (TT), Global Road Safet-y
Partnership (GRSP) and others, for Ghana to learn from and
contribute to sector experience in Africa.
- 71 -



ii.  Ensure sustainable funding for the road sub-sector programme:
(a)   Cost Recovery:
The  Government's  socto-econormc  recovery  progranrnle
emphasizes the need to retairn a system of rmarKet orices allt: '.
aim for cost recovery for all economrc services
Government will improve the inflow into the Road Fund by
progressively increasing the fuel levy, vehicle registration fees. roacd
user fees, road and bridge tolis and the international transit fees
Since the fuel levy constitutes the largest proportion of the road
fund the rate will be increased systematically towards a goal of cedr
equivalent of US$130 million by 2005.
b)   Private Sector Financing
Government recognizes that tne shortage ot publtc fevenues iinias
its ability to meet the road sector's total requirements. In tnis
regard, government will establish the legal framework to encourage
private sector investment in the road sub-sector
c)   Payment of arrears
Government undeftakes to pay all toad contract payment arrei-
not later than December 2002.
11)   Road sub-sector investment decisions will be based on sound socio-
economic and environmental principles that are sustainable.
Investment Priorities:
To maximize net benefits to society, Govemrnment will base investment
decisions on sound socio-economic principles. Investment already made
in road infrastructure will be protected by giving highest priority to rouLtine
and periodic maintenance.   However. extensive rehabilitation anzl
reconstruction will be required to bring roads currently in poor concdition ita
goo condition
iv)   Enhance  the  operational efficiency  of the  road  network  in
collaboration with Ministry of Trnsport Communications (UTC) to
promote economic growth and the delivery of social services.
(a)   Road Transport Regulations:
Complete the comprehensive Road Traffic Bill and review anuc
modify other relevant reguJations.
- 72 -



(b)  Axle Load Control:
Government will continue expanding axle load controls on all m-ajol
roads by installing weighbridges at key locations on the road
network, A policy will also be developed for vatious agencies to
install weighbridges at the ports production centres nmajot co<oa
warehouses. quarries, mines, wood and timber firms etc
c)   Maintenance 8acklog
Government's plan is to clear the backlog of mnaintenance, by
continuing   sustainable   maintenance,  rehabilitation   and
reconstruction programme to stabilize the condition of the road
network. The target for overall road conditions by the year 2005 is
to have at least 70 percent of the network in good condition somne
20 percent in fair condition and no more than 10 percent in poor
condition.
v)   Reducing gender, regional and socio-economic disparities in access
to transport to help achieve poverty reduction, national integration.
unity and stability.
a)   Rural Travel and Transport Programmo and Non-Motorized
Transport.
The Government is committed to continuing its suoport for the
Rural Travel and Transpotl Programme and encouraging other
non--motorized transport such as pedal cycles and animal drawn
carts.
b)   PovertY Reduction:
From recent poverty studies great disparities have been observed
between regions and employment groups. Government aims at a
better distribution of the road network with special emphasis on
high poverty areas in order to reduce these disparities so that the
sector can contribute towards the reduction of poverty in stucth
vulnerable areas.
vi)  Integration of the road network with other modes of transport, which
aims at efficient transport system.
Integrated Transport System:
All efforts will be made to integrate the road network with the other
modes of transportation to ensure a seamless network to efficiently
- 73 -



move people and goods within the country and beyond itS
boundaries. A speeific study will be undertaken to this effect.
vii)  Development of comprehensive road safety programnme.
a)   Road Safety Programmes:
Government will establish the baseline to monitor road accidents in
the country. The capacity to carry out pre-construction safety
auditing of road design by the road agencies wldl be pursuedi to
ensure that road safety requirements are incorporated before
constructon starts. Post construction improvement of harzadous
spot will continue on existing roads
b)   Enforcement:
The Ministry of Roads and Highways will collaborate with the
Ministry of Health and other relevant agencies to reduce the impact
of road accidents,
viii)  Mitigation of the negative environmental and social impact of road
related activities.
(a)   Environmental and Social lImpavct
The Government is mindful of the need to take the potenhat
environmental and social impacts of road projects into account
In consultation with the Ministry of Environment, Science and
Technology all environmental measures required for the
sustainable management of the environment and mitigation of
social effects will be irnplemented during and after road
constructon.  Government will continue to carefully monitor
mitigation schemes during implementation of selected roai
projects, which might have significant environmental and soc'ai
impact. The environmental unit has already been set up in Ghatva
Highway Authority and will be strengthened under the Road Subz
sector Development Programme 2001 2003 (RSDP) to cater for tn:
othe road agencies.
c)   Transport Developmient and Health:
The Ministry of Roads ard Highways will collatorate with the
Ministry of Health and its agencies to reduce the incidence
and spread of HiVTAIDS and other related disease-
associated with the development and operation of  oaz
transport.
- 74 -



* The Ministry of Roads and Hignways wtll assess the 
impact of road transport retated air pollution sn consul3ano:l
with other relevant bodies and design nIittgaVon sftalecly
Govemment of Ghana consideration
SIGNED            ....
(KWADWO ADJEI-DARKO)
MINISTER OF ROADS & HIGHWAYS
CC.  The Secretary to the President
Office of the President
State House
Accra
The Vice President
Office of the Vice President
State House
Accra
Mr. Peter Harold
The World Bank Country Director
World Bank Country Office
Acc-ra
- 75 -



- 76 -



MAURITANIA
G H A N A
ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                              M A L
NATIONAL ROADS                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                    B'->              7 ,URKINAFASO7-.
INTER REGIONAL ROADS             REGIONAL HEADQULARTERS                              GUINEA                      a     N Ii
GUINEA   ~ ~ ~~  RNIN r
REGIONAL ROADS                *    DISTRICT AND SUB DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS              l^  <                             l[
0    ROAD SECTION IDENTIFICATION    o    OTHER SELECTED TOWNS                                 9   L -    C                           r)
-     RAILROADS                   --  REGION ROUNDARIES                                            CJ DIVOITRE    /GA O!
LIBERIA,~_           (          0.J
..   PORTS                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                              A.-                              1, crAo 
.,      /__   _ Guvl f o f GuLi n-e
3                           .91                             &O                           U
BURKINA-FASO                                               K-Anog
G6             in.       K.~~7 ,                      ''    0 
unou                    flo~~rn0o             N                             0
'.P r                                         R I  BoIu,tan      NruahIg    b                                                   |
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Si
v      l        EPWET                    F-i* ,                 T o          -E>         _      ,
>   ( uno                 Z   ,    -- To~~cN~PlevoIearl      ~ob                f
-N           /IONl                                                 6O                                           EION    N I N
lvBole      OSorri      F    R                  \       ~       ~~ lIL  CJrere NN.i
Doriman  RTU                        z    oA 0kprJa          -     Wongosi- fW                                                  ITk
Dori %on~~~~~~~~~~~~~    0eaIi0
D'IVOIR0Ec '                 o                                        N-                     NO
,    B    hl-gw 10?9          .      r    /tX         S </OZongovyeri z  --I I|
8f                           n.                                               ri       rg  (icwi   Loro, 090  I  a err
/  j/2Ch dwach      0  R                     oo ION                  Gboog -~ 'f]^! 'NaS        1fLDh
-- -n--2 / New-~R     lAe  b        ^ u, Y*   ~o D |am a nga  0S r i0
COT E             <                         erl 
Kwad'IVOIRE         \                  Jboroo _                   /               i                      67
~~~~~'~~~~~~~~~ 0~~~~~~lg
;~~~~~~~~ee                    0a O   -luot  r pa r w 0 l  010    1      /~~     u o   r   ODlwo,Rr0an3 hrRa   reena\-n
'01~~~~~~~~~~~~~T I                            alcoo
leN  BRON    I  HAF     00~~~~N   0eNo       ~      oarl
JewiWh~ ~~~~~~~~~~~5.r                          Fufuf,,-i;                                 Ju  -- INA   licP c ds  h\8Goffoyusr
1/005  ench, ~~~~~LT          A~~eb00~~aa~~'         J~~~42In,"
DIVOIRE                               u T o                                                                   TOnGckr radi  o
o 0Ak nlacarm  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~'E-"  M.na
7.     /rns sa~             ci.w da                                                                      L Tsa -L015 
0Dodee oi   2r iekwal                                                                                     6     l E
mpocc                               dO,    lO
New-" ao---(                                FSo     ~    ok.~.'N                    n0
un_  ~~~~~~Aonot            --bry  eek                             o ooow pdoel  o
7'    /          ooo        AToolo         .   knd-akrcl                         OdIf onka   G u i   e a7
Prce            0~N:;fJ                                                                                                       ON
ToMankr.nT                                                                                       SS      TAD
5'                                   00 n                                                         0' b



