Report No. PID9383
Project Name                     Ghana-Road Sector Development Program (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       GHPE50623
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Implementing Agency
Address: MINISTRY OF ROADS & HIGHWAYS
Ghana Highway Authority, Department of Feeder
Roads, Department of Urban Roads
P.O. Box M. 38, Accra, Ghana
Contact Person: Mr. A. Beckley, Roads
Coordinator
Tel: 233 21 66 79 35
Fax: 233 21 66 79 35
Environment Category             A (Full Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                March 13, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 8, 2001 (actual)
Projected Board Date             May 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The transport sector overall accounts for approximately 9% of
GDP and generates a significant share of the total budgetary
revenues of the Government. Roads are the predominant mode of
transportation, currently accounting for 94% of freight and
97% of all traffic movements in the country.   The road
transport industry, which is dominated by the private sector,
has unrestricted entry and competition is prevalent, but its
efficiency is constrained by the high cost poor roads impose
on vehicle operation.
In the past Ghana had acquired a relatively healthy
infrastructure base. However, economic crisis and decline
during the 1970s and 1980s, combined with weak institutional
capacity, led to a deterioration in the infrastructure network
and its operations, leaving transporters and producers unable
either to expand services to a larger segment of the
population or compete effectively in regional markets. In the
1990s the Government embarked on a comprehensive program to
remedy deficiencies in the transport sector. Key reforms
included restructuring the Road Fund and adoption of the
principle that Government's role should be one of regulating,
managing and monitoring, not executing, agent. Widespread
intensification of the involvement of the private sector
followed in areas previously dominated by Government, viz.
port operations, maritime trade, and road maintenance.
Main issues in the Road Sector



Management capacity. The road network is the responsibility
of three agencies, all under the oversight of the Ministry of
Roads and Highways (MRH): the MRH Department of Feeder Roads
(DFR), the MRH Department of Urban Roads (DUR), and the Ghana
Highway Authority (GHA). These agencies suffer, in various
degrees, from weak management. GHA, the largest agency, has
installed management systems that are adequate, but their
application is not satisfactory. DFR and DUR need to complete
on-going development of their systems and adapt them to the
decentralized configuration of the future. Development also
is underway of an integrated financial management system for
MRH and the three agencies, and for an overall public
procurement code to be established and put to use.
Government arrears. A particular issue that has its origin in
the roads sector involves the substantial sums that the
Government owes to contractors for road works carried out in
the past. Elimination of these arrears is a prerequisite for
proper sector management, and necessary to assure a sound
financial platform for the program.
Road maintenance funding and management. The structure and
operations of the Road Fund were revised in 1996. The Fund's
revenues now derive from a fuel levy (about 85%), and various
other road related tariffs, such as licensing fees, road and
bridge tolls, etc. Collection and disbursement of these
revenues are under the authority of the Road Fund Board, which
has a majority of private sector stakeholders. Recently there
have been setbacks in the form of delayed implementation of
approved increases in the levy, as well as a general
stretching out of planned increases. This has delayed
progress in reducing the maintenance backlog.
Traffic Safety. On the entire road network, but in particular
on those parts under the responsibility of the GHA and the
DUR, traffic safety is a serious problem. Presently, the
monetary value of losses due to road accidents is estimated to
be 2% of GDP. Accident frequency in Ghana is about ten times
the average European level, and there is growing public
awareness of the need to take firm action to curb and mitigate
the effects of road accidents.
Government Strategy:
Ghana is one of the pilot countries for the Comprehensive
Development Framework (CDF). As part of this effort, a Roads
and Transport Strategy was put forward (May 2000), with the
following elements: (i) Develop in-country capacity for
government institutions and the private sector to coordinate
and manage the road network efficiently; (ii) ensure
sustainable funding; (iii) base road sub-sector investment
decisions on sound socio-economic and environmental principles
that are sustainable; (iv) enhance the operational efficiency
of the road network to promote economic growth and the
delivery of social services; (v) reduce gender, regional and
- 2 -



socio-economic disparities in access to transport to help
achieve poverty reduction, national integration, unity and
stability; (vi) integrate the road network with other modes of
transport to promote the development of an efficient transport
system; (vii) develop a comprehensive road safety program to
reduce road transport fatalities; and (viii) mitigate the
negative environmental and social impact of road related
activities.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the Ghana Roads Sector
Development Program (RSDP) is to achieve sustainable
improvements in the supply and performance of roads and road
transport services in a regionally equitable manner.
Sustainability involves physical, financial, as well as
environmental aspects and is closely related to the success of
the institutional reforms and institutional strengthening that
are part of the program. Similarly, equitability encompasses
geographic disparities largely between the south and the north
(the latter roughly comprising the four northern regions of
Brong-Ahafo, Northern Region, Upper West and Upper East),
disparities of income, disparities between urban and rural
areas, and gender inequalities. Some of the disparities
clearly overlap, calling for an integrated approach based on
the more fundamental objectives of poverty alleviation and
economic growth. All types of roads are included: trunk
roads, feeder roads, and urban roads. The road works for the
program as a whole range from routine maintenance to
reconstruction. To achieve better transport services the
program extends beyond road conditions to a variety of road
safety measures, improved environmental practices, better
reporting and information systems, etc.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's first involvement in the road sector dates back to
the 1960's, and includes direct support of physical works
programs, as well as assistance in policy reforms and
institutional strengthening. The roads sector is well suited
for the country and its international partners to work
together within the CDF, since the practice of continuous
consultation and the perspective of joint decision-making have
been in place for several years. Furthermore, the Bank's
management of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
(SSATP), a multi-donor collaborative effort in policy reform
in the transport sector, will permit the Government to avail
itself of assistance in sector policy analysis and reform as
well as interaction with, and benefits from, sector
experiences in other countries.
4. Description
The RSDP presents a three-year integrated approach to road
maintenance, construction, and management by MRH, its two road
agencies, DFR and DUR, and GHA. Disbursements from the
proposed IDA Credit would support the implementation of
specific projects and actions within annual RSDP work
-3 -



programs. The program has the following six components, of
which IDA would finance elements of components 2 through 5:
Component 1: Routine Maintenance, consisting of patching of
potholes; light grading; grass cutting; tree and bush clearing
along the roadside; and cleaning of gutters, drains and
culverts. It is carried out annually on an average of 27,250
km of all types of roads.
Component 2: Periodic Maintenance and Minor Rehabilitation,
consisting of spot improvement; repair and resurfacing of
short stretches of roads; repairing drains, culverts and
slopes; regraveling; and resealing.
Component 3: Major Rehabilitation and Reconstruction and
Upgrading, consisting of reconstruction of heavily degraded
road sections; resealing; upgrading from one surface type to
another; placing asphalt concrete overlays; and repair and
construction of bridges, culverts, and other structures.
Component 4: Traffic Management and Safety, containing
strengthening the National Road Safety Commission (NRSC) and
the DVLA; developing a comprehensive road safety strategy and
implementation program; and setting standards for safety,
reliability, and efficiency in the transport sector.
Component 5: Institutional Strengthening, containing policy
and institutional reforms (including strengthening of
environmental management and road safety); studies; training;
technical assistance; and provision of buildings, vehicles and
equipment.
Component 6: Program Operation, covering planning,
management, coordination and reporting for the 3-year road
development program by the participating agencies.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       220 IDA, as part of the total RSDP Program of $1.2
billion.
6. Implementation
The MRH will have the overall responsibility for the
coordination and management of the program. Each of the
implementing road agencies (GHA, DFR, DUR) will make its
own internal management arrangements and report, in formats
already established and agreed. Implementation will be
based on an Annual Work Program and Budget prepared by each
agency, and consolidated by the MRH. The GHA Accounting
and Management Information Systems Unit (AMISU) will be
transformed into a MRH accounting facility to oversee all
expenditures in the roads sector, including arrangements
for audits, in accordance with systems and procedures
acceptable to IDA. A financial/technical audit system
introduced under HSIP will be continued and enhanced to
- 4 -



assess the cost/effectiveness and adherence to agreed work
programs for the agencies. A Project Implementation Manual
is being finalized which provides the necessary guidelines
for all implementing agencies.
7. Sustainability
The Government is firmly committed to improving the
performance of the sector. To further strengthen the chances
for sustainability, the following actions will be taken as
needed: (i) transparent use of and predictable supply of funds
for road maintenance and their timely disbursements; (ii)
effective capacity building; (iii) efficient system for road
maintenance planning, programming and supervision (road
maintenance planning and programming improvements will be
underpinned in part by the three-year rolling RMRP); and (iv)
enhancement of regulatory capacity in the administration.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The advantages of a participatory design process. The MRH
drew up an overall strategy for the sector, and developed this
into strategic plans for each sub-sector. Acceptance of these
plans by the public and by particular interest groups was
obtained through extensive debate in Cabinet, Parliament, and
parliamentary sub-committees, and through outreach activity
and stakeholder consultations by MRH. The main lesson learned
is that although the process is slow, it is both in accord
with Ghanaian tradition, and in the end, more effective than a
faster but less inclusive process would have been.
The need for donor coordination and consultation. The
practice of regular consultations among donors and the MRH,
and the annual GOG/donor meeting instituted under the HSIP,
and the stakeholder consultations arranged by MRH, have
demonstrated the advantage of continuous contact between all
actors and interested parties in the sector.
The need for comprehensive sector management support. The
emergence of the arrears problem shows clearly the need for
comprehensive road sector management and transparent
reporting. Had those elements been in place, the arrears
problem could not have developed. This is a principle reason
for adopting the concept of a program rather than multiple
projects.
The importance of accompanying stable maintenance funding with
better programming. The positive experience with the reform
of the Road Fund hs been incorporated in the design of the
program. The reformed Fund significantly improved revenue-
raising immediately upon beginning its work. However, the
lack of clear work programs caused a build-up of liquid funds,
which were then diverted to other uses, sometimes the payment
of arrears. The lesson is that the raising of revenue for
road maintenance does not in and of itself insure the
maintenance is done. Proper advance work planning and
programming must also be present, together with implementation
- 5 -



capacity in the private sector and managerial capacity in the
executing agencies.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        An environmental impact assessment (EIA) of the
program was undertaken by international consultants in association with
local experts. The EIA concluded that the project is unlikely to have
adverse effects on the environment, as it mainly involves the maintenance,
rehabilitation and upgrading of existing roads. No new construction is
intended, and would only be considered where a linkage to the next level
road has been identified as necessary from both a social and commercial
standpoint. Negative environmental impacts during the works, such as
dust, noise, detours, traffic delays, spoil materials, fumes, construction
camps and affiliated services, will be of short duration and will be
included in the mitigation plans of the contracting entities. In a very
few cases, removal of structures within the road reservation may be
required. Positive environmental impacts are expected to be achieved by
improved safety designs, including guard rails, barriers, overpasses,
sidewalks and road shoulders. Paving of gravel roads will eliminate dust
pollution, and improved drainage will reduce exposure of near-by residents
to waterborne diseases associated with standing water. Improvements in
vehicular controls will address noise and visual pollution issues,
reducing road deterioration (through overloading regulations) and thus
minimizing the need for extensive road works.
Specific projects under the program will be identified on an
annual basis and the environmental and social impact of each
road will be evaluated individually, in keeping with national
environmental assessment requirements, as well as those of the
Bank. An acceptable mitigation framework/plan has been
discussed and agreed upon, and the required additional costs
are reflected in the project costs.
Disclosure         The EIA was placed in the World Bank
InfoShop on November 21, 2000. Copies are also available in
the World Bank Field Office in Ghana Project Information
Center and the Ghana Ministries of Environment, and Roads and
Highways. Public hearings were held in Ghana on November 17
and 21, 2000, and there were four national broadcasts on Radio
Ghana, two each on November 25 and December 2, 2000.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Imogene R. Jensen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5550
Fax: 202-473-8326
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
-6-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 23, 2001.
- 7 -



