                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000806




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-35540, IDA-3554A)




                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 175.3 MILLION
                       (US$220 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                   FOR A

                   ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                               December 09, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Transport Unit
Africa Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2008)

                Currency Unit = New Ghanaian Cedis (GHS)
                            GHS 1.00 = US$ 0.91
                             US$ 1.00 = SDR 0.61

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT    Annual Average Daily Traffic
AFD     Agence France de Developpement
AfDB    African Development Bank
B/C     Benefit Cost Ratio
BRRI    Building and Road Research Institute
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CUT     Centre for Urban Transport
DANIDA  Danish International Development Agency
DP      Development Partners
DFR     Department of Feeder Roads
DUR     Department of Urban Roads
DVLA    Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority
DFID    Department of International Development, U.K.
EC      European Commission
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
GHA     Ghana Highway Authority
GIS     Geographic Information System
GOG     Government of Ghana
HDM     Highways Design and Maintenance Model
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
KfW     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederofbau
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
MOT     Ministry of Transportation
MRH     Ministry of Roads and Highways
MTR     Ministry of Roads and Transport
NPV     Net Present Value
NRSC    National Road Safety Commission
NTP     National Transport Policy
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAP     Project Affected Persons
PDO     Project Development Objective
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
RAI     Rural Accessibility Index
RSDP    Road Sector Development Project
TSDP    Transport Sector Development Program
VOC     Vehicle Operating Cost


                                      ii

            Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili

           Country Director: Ishac Diwan

           Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham

Project & ICR Team Leader: Ajay Kumar




                           iii

                                                     GHANA
                               Road Sector Development Project


                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet ........................................................................................................................i
A. Basic Information........................................................................................................i
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................i
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs....................................................................iv
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................iv
I. Disbursement Profile ..................................................................................................v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................20
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Partners ..................................................24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............35
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR.........................................................................37
Annex 6. Comments of Partners ...................................................................................40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................42
Map




                                                           iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                    GH-Road Sec Dev
Country:                Ghana                 Project Name:
                                                                    Project (FY02)
Project ID:             P050623               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-35540,IDA-3554A
ICR Date:               12/16/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    GHANA
Original Total
                        XDR 175.3M            Disbursed Amount:     XDR 175.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Roads and Transport
Department of Urban Roads
Department of Feeder Roads
Ghana Highway Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/14/2000    Effectiveness:       01/15/2002         01/15/2002
Appraisal:             01/08/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/26/2001    Mid-term Review:     04/15/2005         04/15/2005
                                     Closing:             06/30/2006         06/27/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  16                 13
Health                                                              3                  3
Roads and highways                                                 81                 84


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                              Primary         Secondary
Decentralization                                                 Secondary        Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development                             Primary
Other urban development                                          Secondary        Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health                    Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                         Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham              Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project Team Leader:       Ajay Kumar                          Imogene R. Jensen
ICR Team Leader:           Ajay Kumar
ICR Primary Author:        Arun Banerjee
                           John Richardson



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Ghana Road Sector Development Program (RSDP) is
to achieve sustainable improvements in the supply and performance of roads and road



                                                 ii

transport services in a regionally equitable manner. All types of roads are included: trunk
roads, feeder roads and urban roads. The road works range from routine maintenance to
reconstruction. To achieve better transport services, the program extends beyond road
conditions to a variety of road safety measures, improved environmental practices, better
reporting and information systems.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The original Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval        Target        Completion or
                                               documents)        Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Improve road condition mix from 29% Good, 27% fair and 44% poor to 59%
                Good, 27% fair and 12% poor by end of project
Value           29% Good condition         59% Good                         39% good
quantitative or 27% fair condition         27% fair                         29% fair
Qualitative)    44% poor condition         12% poor                         32% poor
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   06/30/2006                       06/27/2008
Comments        Achievements can be considered moderately satisfactory; however, main
(incl. %        network achieved target at 57% good, 26% fair, and 17% poor which is 100%
achievement)    achievement. DFR and DUR expanded network to improve accessibility.

Indicator 2 :   Increase in fuel levy from Gh Cedis 230/litre to Gh Cedis 600/litre at end of
                project
Value
quantitative or Gh Cedis 230 per litre     Gh Cedis 600 per                 Gh Cedis 600 per

Qualitative)                               litre                            litre

Date achieved 04/30/2001                   06/30/2006                       06/27/2008
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement of the expected target.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Increase in the maintainable network of feeder roads by 2000 km annually
Value
quantitative or 11,500 km                  16,220 km                        18,000 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   06/30/2006                       06/27/2008
Comments
(incl. %        About 110% of the target was achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Decline in accident fatality rate
Value
quantitative or 73                         73                               22
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   06/30/2006                       06/27/2008
Comments        The baseline value is as reported in the PAD, however the actual accident rate in
(incl. %        2002 was 27. The accident rate in the country declined by about 20%.



                                                 iii

achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                             approval           Revised       Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Targeted routine maintenance carried out annually by the respective agencies
Value           GHA 8,848 km             GHA 11,600 km                      GHA 13,000
(quantitative   DFR 11,782 km            DFR 13, 900 km                     DFR 18,000
or Qualitative) DUR 986 km               DUR 1, 750 km                      DUR 3,600
Date achieved 04/30/2001                 06/30/2006                         06/27/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved was 120% to 200%.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/27/2001           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     04/30/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     09/30/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      2.91
  4     03/28/2003           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     13.87
  5     09/27/2003         Unsatisfactory             Satisfactory                     27.08
  6     03/15/2004           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     48.98
  7     09/14/2004           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     69.59
  8     03/22/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                104.11
  9     10/18/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                139.29
  10    06/28/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                183.51
  11    02/06/2007     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                211.02
  12    06/27/2007     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                229.81
  13    12/20/2007           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    246.41
  14    05/30/2008           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    255.87



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.      The objective of the Ghana Road Sector Development Project (RSDP) was to
achieve sustainable improvements in the supply and performance of roads and road
transport services in a regionally equitable manner. Sustainability involves physical,
financial, as well as environmental aspects and is closely related to the success of the
institutional reforms and strengthening that are part of the project.          Equitability
compasses geographic disparities between the south and the north, disparities of income,
disparities between urban and rural areas, and gender inequalities.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

2.      The project was consistent with the March 2000 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). The objective of the CAS was to reduce the incidence of poverty through
increased growth and to create gainful employment opportunities based on a two-pronged
approach: (i) support policies and programs aimed at more rapid and sustained growth;
and (ii) ensure social sustainability of programs. Within the Bank's portfolio the majority
of operations were focused on removing key infrastructure bottlenecks, especially in the
transport, energy, and water sectors.

3.      The RSDP supported the CAS in two ways. First, was to increase Ghana's
competitiveness in foreign trade and promote linkages in domestic markets. These
linkages were expected to decrease the cost of access by the poor, and particularly
women, to social services, markets and economic opportunities. Second, by reducing
transport costs through timely maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads; it
was expected to build and utilize local capacity in the public and private sectors while
also encouraging regional equity in the development of the transport network and of
transport services.

4.      However there was another dimension as well. On the positive side, there had
been - over several years - significant gains in the management of the road sector. The
Ministry of Transportation had begun to promote/introduce integrated management of the
sector, economic criteria were beginning to be applied in the planning and prioritization
of expenditures, there was a well functioning Road Fund which was cited by many as a
real success story, with the new focus on preservation of the network. The amount of
maintenance being carried out was increasing, and the share of the network in good
condition was growing. The government was managing the donors well, replete with an
annual government-led "self study" which government presented at an annual donors'
conference. On the negative side, the Ghana Highway Authority had abused its relative
independence (and lack of oversight) by signing contracts for which adequate funds were
not available and building up large arrears through failure to pay and associated penalties.
Better management and oversight clearly were needed.

5.      Concurrently, the health sector in Ghana had a successful SWAP underway in
which IDA funds were being pooled with those supplied by government and other



                                            1

donors. The government was interested in a similar approach for roads, but - upon
review - the Bank and several donors decided that roads investments were too large and
lumpy for this approach, and in any case, several donors wanted to get credit for the
specifics of their support. The Bank team tried to develop a programmatic approach that
was a sort of middle ground - whereby funds would be allocated according to economic
criteria and all expenditures would be tracked in an integrated financial management
system. A sub-idea was that the Bank would finance 100 percent of RSDP monitoring
(helping cash flow and ensuring full payment of the local share of contracts), as the
integrated Financial Management system would show that government had contributed at
least 10 percent of the roads program overall and was thus covering the tax element
overall. The intention was also to develop one Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for the
program that would apply to all sources of funds, but this turned out not to be entirely
practical.

6.      Consistent with this integrated approach, government made the decision to
establish Ministry of Transportation (MOT) to link policy, oversight and implementation
and to promote decentralization. However, soon after appraisal, new government took
over and during the initial period of project implementation, there were attempts by the
new Minister of Transportation to change prioritization of the road network. The key
persons in the Ministry were replaced and while road fund continued to receive dedicated
funding, its focus on maintenance was somewhat diluted. During the following years in
implementation, the Bank together with other development partners continued to work
with the Ministry to strengthen the planning basis and management of the road fund.

Transport Sector Overview

7.      The transport sector played a strategic role in the Ghana economy. It accounted
for approximately 9 percent of GDP and generated a significant share of the revenues of
the Government of Ghana (GOG). Ghana had a well developed transportation system
consisting of two large deep-water ports; a 944 km railway system serving the southern
part of the country; a 40,000 km road network consisting of 13,433 km of trunk roads,
24,000 km of feeder roads and over 2,200 km of urban roads; one international airport
and 8 regional airports and airstrips.

8.      Roads were the predominant mode of transportation, accounting for over 95
percent of all freight and traffic movements in the country. There were no widely
available alternatives other than roads for the movement of bulk commodities for export.
The railway network had limited coverage and operated at low efficiency under parastatal
management. Internal water transport was limited to Lake Volta. The road transport
industry, dominated by the private sector, had unrestricted entry and competition was
prevalent, but its efficiency was constrained by the high cost poor roads imposed on
vehicle operation.

9.      Since 1990, the GOG deployed major efforts to remedy deficiencies in the
transport sector with assistance from the Bank and a number of other donors. In 1997,
GOG reformed its own role and function in the sector by merging its involvement in all



                                           2

transport modes into one Ministry, the Ministry of Roads and Transport (MRT), and
adopting the principle that Government's role should be that of regulating, managing and
monitoring, and not of an executing agent.

Main issues in the Road Sector

10.     Management Capacity. The road sector agencies suffered, in varying degrees,
from weak management. Ghana Highway Authority (GHA), the largest, installed
adequate management systems and tools, but their application was not satisfactory.
Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) and Department of Urban Roads (DUR) needed to
complete on-going development of their systems and ensure that they were adapted to the
decentralized configuration of the future. There was a pressing need for an effective,
integrated financial management system of the Ministry and the three agencies, and for
an overall public procurement code to be established and utilized.

11.     Government Arrears. A particular issue that had its origin in the roads sector
involved the substantial sums the Government owed to contractors for road works carried
out in the past. Nearly all of these debts related to contracts financed entirely by the
Government and often awarded without competition. Elimination of the problem was
considered a pre-requisite for proper sector management, and agreement on an acceptable
solution within a realistic timeframe was a condition of RSDP negotiation.

12.     Road Maintenance Funding and Management. An issue of the recent past that
had shown improvement was the stability of the funding of road maintenance. Revision
of the structure and operations of the Road Fund was undertaken and the Fund's revenues
derived from a fuel levy (about 85 percent of the total), and various other road related
tariffs. Collection and disbursement of these revenues were outside the purview of the
Treasury and under the authority of the Road Fund Board, which had a majority of
private sector stakeholders. While the overall performance of the Road Fund was good, a
substantial backlog remained in maintenance of large segments of the road network.

13.     Traffic Safety. Traffic safety was a very serious problem on the entire road
network, but especially on those parts under the responsibility of the GHA and the DUR.
The monetary value of losses due to road accidents was estimated to account for almost 2
percent of GDP. Accident frequency in Ghana was about ten times the average European
level, and there was growing public awareness of the need to take firm action to curb and
mitigate the effects of road accidents.

Government Strategy

14.     GOG initiated a wide range of new approaches to develop and improve
infrastructure networks and services. Ghana became one of the pilot countries for
implementation of the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) which was
applied by Ghana and its development partners to increase the impact of external
resources on poverty reduction. As part of this effort, a Roads and Transport Strategy was
developed by the MOT. The strategy identified specific objectives for the transport sector



                                           3

and strategies for dealing with the challenges and issues in each of the sub-sectors. The
main elements of this strategy with respect to roads were to:

    (i)    Develop in-country capacity for government institutions and the private sector
           to coordinate and manage the road network efficiently;
    (ii)   Ensure sustainable funding for the road sub-sector program;
    (iii)  Base road sub-sector investment decisions on sound socio-economic and
           environmental principles that are sustainable;
    (iv)   Enhance the operational efficiency of the road network to promote economic
           growth and delivery of social services;
    (v)    Reduce gender, regional and socio-economic disparities in access to transport
           to help achieve poverty reduction, national integration, unity and stability;
    (vi)   Integrate the road network with other modes of transport to promote the
           development of an efficient transport system;
    (vii)  Develop a comprehensive road safety program to reduce road transport
           fatalities; and
    (viii) Mitigate the negative environmental and social impact of road related
           activities.

Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:

15.     Based on the GOG's sector strategy, the key road issues to be dealt with under the
RSDP were:

16.     Decentralization. The structure of decision-making related to roads in both urban
and rural areas was expected to continue to evolve during the project period. The RSDP
was designed so that the Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH) and its agencies could
respond to and participate in this process.

17.     Poverty Alleviation. The road sector was beginning to contribute proactively to
the GOG's declared goal of giving first priority to mitigating extreme poverty wherever it
existed. This focus was to sharpen throughout the RSDP period and cause greater focus
on extending and maintaining the feeder road network and upgrading roads in the poorer
areas of towns.

18.     Safety. Under the previous Highway Sector Investment Project (HSIP) an
environmental and road safety department was created in GHA, but no significant
progress had been made in road safety. To address these problems, a comprehensive road
safety program was to be developed under the RSDP.

19.     Social Sustainability and Equity. Social assessments were being carried out
within the sector as pilots, but were not being systematically applied. Under the RSDP,
social impact assessments were to be conducted systematically to mitigate negative
impacts and maximize benefits for targeted groups.




                                           4

20.      Environment. Following successful implementation of Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIAs) in highway projects, these were to be introduced in a systematic
fashion for feeder roads and urban roads under the RSDP.

21.      Sector Management and Implementation Capacity. Issues in these areas fell
into two broad categories: those that needed to be addressed in the initial stages of the
program, and those that the program itself would address over time. The first category
comprised (i) design and start of a payment plan to eliminate the arrears problem and
isolate it from the RSDP until its final resolution; (ii) establishment of the expanded
environmental and social assessment and mitigation system to cover DUR and DFR in
addition to GHA; (iii) establishment of a reformed financial management system in the
Ministry and its agencies; (iv) agreement between the GOG and the donor community on
the design of a joint decision-making process relevant to the RSDP being implemented in
accordance with the Comprehensive Development Framework; and (v) assignment of
staff in the Ministry and the agencies of sufficient number and qualification to make this
process work. The second category covered: (i) establishment of the GOG procurement
code; (ii) consolidation of the use of existing contract management systems and related
monitoring and decision-making processes; (iii) continuous development of the RSDP
management aspects relevant to GOG's decentralization program; and (iv) long-term but
less critical issues being addressed through training programs under the RSDP for the
Ministry, its agencies and the private sector.

22.      Sector Programming and Analysis. Priority was to be given to the establishment
of a sound basis for analysis and programming in the sector. There was a need for
comprehensive but manageable databases on the state of roads, permitting realistic
estimates of maintenance rehabilitation and new investment needs.

23.      Human Resource Development. The capacity of middle and lower level
technicians in the road agencies required improvement. A comprehensive program to
address this situation was drawn up which included in-country and external training in
the form of apprenticeships, internships and scholarships for university graduate, and a
comprehensive training program for developing staff capacity in using HDM4 and
Geographic Information System (GIS).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

24.      The development objective of the RSDP was to achieve sustainable improvements
in the supply and performance of roads and road transport services in a regionally
equitable manner. The key performance indicators that were selected to measure the
achievement of the project development objective were:1




1
 The performance indicators as provided in the project appraisal document (PAD) main text (A.2) are
different from those in Annex 1. As the indicators in the annex are more specific and detailed, they are
used in the ICR for comparison purposes.




                                                  5

    i)       Road network condition mix improved from 29 percent good, 27 percent fair,
             and 44 percent poor in 2000 to 59 percent good, 27 percent fair, and 12
             percent poor
    ii)      Average travel time between district capitals reduced by at least 15 percent
    iii)     Ratio of all road works carried out in the 4 northern regions compared to the
             grand total be at least maintained over the 4-year period
    iv)      Amount of maintainable feeder roads increased from 11,500 km to 16,220 km
    v)       Compliance with axle load limitations increased by 10 percent.
    vi)      Number of vehicles inspected annually increased to 80 percent of total
             number of vehicles registered.
    vii)     Fatality rate of 73 per 10,000 vehicles reduced by 5 percent2
    viii)    Fuel levy increased from cedis 230 per liter to cedis 600 per liter

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

25.      The PDOs were not revised as they remained relevant throughout project
implementation. However, the indicators were expanded informally, in discussions with
government and other development partners, to reflect the emerging sector priorities and
the need to measure the "outcome" impact more broadly.                          In addition to the key
indicators developed during appraisal, during implementation the concept has evolved to
include the impact of transport sector on achievement of the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs). Accordingly, the indicators have been expanded to include: (i) rural
accessibility index (RAI), (ii) cost of transport services; (iii) share of maintenance needs
met; (iv) agricultural trend and income generation (land under cultivation, land values,
farm gate prices, extension services, livestock ownership, income levels); (v) health
(facilities, number and qualification of staff, timeliness of supplies, family planning
patterns, disease prevalent along road corridors, travel time to health centre); (vi)
education (number and types of schools, quality, distance, attendance rates, enrollment
rates); (vii) environment (pollution, road safety issues); and (ix) delay at ports. This will
enable the government to assess the overall socio-economic impact of roads that have
been rehabilitated in the past as well provide them with a stronger basis for future
planning and management of roads.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

26.      The beneficiaries of the improved road network were to be:
    ·    commercial and private road users profiting from improved road conditions;
    ·    areas which were depressed and had large disadvantaged populations were
         targeted for both the feeder roads and urban roads programs, by specifically
         identifying road stretches using selection criteria designed to insure that
         investments responded to declared community needs; and,
    ·    pedestrians in rural and urban areas who suffered disproportionately from road
         accidents.

2This information is reported from the PAD. However, statistics as reported in the MOT publication is 27
accidents per 10,000 vehicles in 2002, which is used as a baseline in this project.




                                                  6

1.5 Original Components

27.   The project had the following six components:

  i.  Routine Maintenance ­ patching of potholes; light grading; grass cutting; tree
      and bush clearing along the roadside; and cleaning of gutters, drains and culverts.
      The annual target was an average of 27,250km of all types of roads (wholly
      government funded);
 ii.  Periodic Maintenance, Minor Rehabilitation and Minor Upgrading ­ spot
      improvement, repair and resurfacing of short stretches of roads, repair of drains,
      culverts and slopes, re-graveling, resealing, and minor upgrading of gravel to
      bituminous roads;
iii.  Major Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Upgrading ­ reconstruction of
      heavily degraded road sections, upgrading from one surface type to another;
      placing asphalt concrete overlays, and repair and construction of bridges, culverts,
      and other structures;
iv.   Traffic Management and Road Safety ­ strengthening the National Road Safety
      Council (NRSC) and Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority (DVLA),
      developing a comprehensive road safety strategy and implementation programme,
      and setting standards for safety, reliability and efficiency in the transport
      sector;Institutional Strengthening ­ policy and institutional reforms (including
      strengthening of environmental management, decentralization, development of a
      national transport strategy encompassing rural and urban transport, and road
      safety); training studies, technical assistance, and provision of buildings, vehicles
      and equipment; and Project Operation ­ planning, management, coordination
      and reporting for the 3-year implementation period of the road programme by the
      participating                                                              agencies.




                                           7

28.      Table 1 presents a summary of the original RSDP components and their indicative
costs:

                  Table 1:      Summary of RSDP Components and Cost
                                             Indicative               Bank
                                                Cost        % of    financing       %
Component
                                                (US$        Total      (US$     of Total
                                              million)               million)
Routine maintenance                              101.37         8.5       0.00        0.0
Periodic maintenance, Minor Rehabilitation
                                                 416.03       34.9       57.50      26.1
and Minor Upgrading
Major rehabilitation, Reconstruction &                                  119.00
                                                 559.20       47.0                  54.1
upgrading
Traffic management & safety                       11.00         0.9       2.60        1.2

Institutional strengthening                       55.40         4.7      38.40      17.5

Project operation                                 48.00         4.0       2.50        1.1

             Total Project Costs               1,191.00      100.0      220.00     100.0

                 Front-end fee                     0.00         0.0       0.00        0.0

Total Financing Required                       1,191.00      100.0      220.00     100.0


Revised Components

29.      The main project components were not revised during the implementation period.
However, financial allocation from the IDA credit to the different components changed
as needed and as agreed with the GOG.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

30.      Project preparation was satisfactory: (i) a qualified team with the required skill
mix was in charge of project preparation, (ii) the design of the project was based on
detailed technical reviews of alternatives, tested parameters and lessons learned from
similar projects, (ii) major risks and their mitigation were clearly identified, (iii) an
adequate monitoring systems and related tools were established from the onset, (iv)
financial and economic analyses were conducted using tools already in place in other
operations, and (v) safeguards issues were properly covered based on an appropriate
participatory process and full disclosure.

31.      Project design drew heavily on lessons learned from previous highway sector
projects. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design included: (i) the need for a
participatory design process by maintaining consistent dialogue with stakeholders (ii) the
importance of donor coordination and consultation to address imbalances in the sector
program, (iii) comprehensive sector management support by ensuring financial discipline
and transparent reporting at the national Government level to ensure that arrears of
maintenance are dealt with in a timely manner, (iv) the importance of balancing stable


                                           8

maintenance funding with better programming, and (v) the need for improved resource
allocation criteria to ensure equitable distribution of resources across the road sector. The
successful reflection of these lessons learned in the project design ensured a well
designed project. There was no formal quality at entry assessment conducted for the
project.

2.2 Implementation

32.     There were no major changes in the project and there was no formal Quality of
Supervision assessment carried out for this project.

Mid Term Review

33.     The Bank conducted a Mid Term Review (MTR) of the project in April 2005, and
assessed the overall progress of the project towards achieving its development objectives.
Based on the findings of the MTR, the mission made recommendations for the remaining
phase of the project. The main recommendations of the MTR was the establishment of a
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit within the Ministry to ensure that all projects under the
RSDP are executed in line with the national development priorities of the GOG in the
road sector and to strengthen the planning, programming and budgeting capacity within
the ministry and its agencies.       Based on this recommendation, a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit was established in the Ministry. In addition, recognizing the need to
strengthen delivery of project outcomes, studies were initiated to examine: (i) road fund
management and financing; (ii) axle load control; (iii) domestic construction capacity;
and (iv) public private partnership (PPP) possibilities in the road sector. The studies have
now been completed and an action plan has been developed to be implemented as part of
the next five-year Transport Sector Development Program (TSDP) developed by the
Ministry of Transportation, Ministry of Aviation, and Ministry of Harbours and
Railways.




                                             9

Project at Risk

34.     The project's DO rating was downgraded to "Unsatisfactory" in June 2003 due to
a lack of progress in settling of arrears, lack of a prioritized plan for development and
maintenance, insufficient focus on maintenance and inefficiencies in the use of resources
which focused on development instead of maintenance. However, the GOG reacted
quickly to the downgrading and initiated actions on all of the issues which gave sufficient
confidence to the Bank to change the DO rating back to "Satisfactory" by December
2003.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

35.     Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were considered satisfactory.           The
project was monitored by the Ministry and reporting was consolidated in a single
quarterly report covering all major donors to the road sector. Annual technical and
financial management audits were carried out, enabling the Ministry and its agencies to
make improvements in their sector management in the course of project implementation.
The indicators used were for the most part measurable and meaningful. Annual sector
meetings involving the GOG and its development partners were used as a basis for
reflection on achievement of targets and planning the way forward.

36.     The MOT, together with Ghana Statistical Service with support from DANIDA
has set up a transport indicators and data management initiative. The program will serve
as a reliable and sustainable one-stop shop for all transport related data and performance
indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

37.     RSDP initiated the first ever, preparation and implementation of Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIAs) and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs), in the history of the
road sector in Ghana. The mid-term review April 2005, rated environmental safeguards
satisfactory, but social safeguards performance were found to be in non-compliance with
Bank policy, as civil works for three contracts, out of 110, started before the completion
of the RAPs; and the three contracts had outstanding compensation to be paid to project
affected persons (PAPs). The three contracts were: Mallam ­ Kasoa Road Rehabilitation
Project (Accra), Teshi Link Road (Accra) and Asafo market junction (Kumasi). To
redress the social safeguards performance of the three contracts, a resettlement audit was
commissioned and competed in February 2007.




                                          10

38.     An action plan to address the outstanding compensation was incorporated in the
audit report. The plan was implemented with satisfaction by April 2008. In addition to the
resettlement audit, the Bank Team also provided hands on training in safeguards
instrument preparation, to the environmental desks of GHA, DUR and selected local
consultants working with the two road agencies. As a result, in the preparation of the
Ghana Urban Transport Project (GUTP), the safeguards documents (Environmental and
Social Management Framework and Resettlement Rehabilitation Framework) prepared
by DUR, were rated good practices by ASPEN.

39.     Project accounting and financial management reporting systems, including
arrangements for audits have been satisfactory. There have been no major financial
accountability issues and performance of the implementing agencies in procurement has
been also satisfactory; all contracts were awarded according to procedures and completed
on time before the project closing date.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.     Preparation for a follow-on project (Transport Sector Program) commenced
before project closure to allow for a smooth transition period. The proposed project
reflects GOG's changing priorities to focus on the Transport Sector as a whole rather than
just the road-subsector, as in earlier projects. At the close of the RSDP, the Road Fund
was generating about US$130 million annually ­ sufficient to meet all the routine
maintenance needs and an increasing percentage of the periodic maintenance needs of the
road network. Studies were undertaken and proposals were made to (i) improve the
working relationships between the three transport subsector ministries to ensure better
coordination between them; (ii) improve the functioning of the Road Fund; (iii) support
the local construction industry; and (iv) restructure the Ministry and its agencies for more
efficient management of the network. A National Transport Policy has been prepared by
the three ministries of transportation.

41.     An Urban Transport Project focusing on Accra and Kumasi is also underway,
building on the improved urban network and urban transport policy. The project includes
a pilot Bus Rapid Transit route, improved and centralized traffic management for the two
largest cities in Ghana and the creation of a Centre for Urban Transport (CUT) to assist
municipalities in the management and operation of public transport services.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42.     The objective of the project was highly relevant, as was the design of the project
and its implementation. The project objectives were consistent with Ghana's priorities
for the road sector, and fully in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The
project was large, complex, nation wide in scope, and required coordination between
several implementation agencies and a large number of development partners. Although




                                           11

the implementing agencies started out somewhat slowly, they built up their capabilities
steadily which has provided a sustainable foundation for the future.

43.    One of the key project's strengths was efforts by the Ministry of Transportation to
harmonize development partners' activities as reflected in:

    ·  A common National Transport Policy
    ·  Common basis of annual audits
    ·  Common performance monitoring arrangements
    ·  Common framework for monitoring and evaluation
    ·  Common investment program
    ·  Regular monthly meetings and annual meeting
    ·  Common tools for planning and programming of works
    ·  Coordinated road inventory system based on GIS
    ·  Systematic use of tools such as HDM4 and RED for planning, programming, and
       budgeting of all maintenance activities

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives.

44.    The RSDP has contributed significantly to the improvement of the road transport
sector of Ghana and provided the platform for the effective and continuous development
of the road sector in the future. The development objective of the RSDP was to achieve
sustainable improvements in the supply and performance of roads and road transport
services in a regionally equitable manner. This was geared towards addressing disparities
of income, disparities between urban and rural areas and gender inequalities, alleviating
poverty and engendering broad based economic development. The main target of the
project was to improve productivity and competitiveness of the local economy and
simultaneously improve access by the poor to the benefits of economic development
through a set of key performance indicators.

45.    Overall, achievements of the road condition mix of 39 percent good, 29 percent
fair and 32 percent poor can be considered moderately satisfactory as against the
planned target of 59 percent good, 27 percent fair and 12 percent poor by the end of the
Project due to factors explained further as follows. The main road network, managed by
GHA, achieved the target at 57 percent good, 26 percent fair, and 17 percent poor.
Nevertheless, the overall achievements are low because: a) length of the road network as
reported in 2002 did not account for a sizeable feeder roads network (mainly earth tracks)
because the data base available at the time was not complete. With improvements in
technology, particularly GIS capability on part of the Department of Feeder Roads, it
became possible to map and monitor the available network exhaustively, resulting in an
increase in reported length of the network. Thus although the network condition was
improved in absolute length as planned, the proportions fell short (because of an increase
in the denominator - the network size); b) the requirements of achieving MDG goal of
Rural Accessibility Index (RAI) required some extension of the network to inaccessible
areas; and c) creation of new districts, growth and expansion of urban areas has also
contributed to an increase in feeder and urban roads network.



                                          12

46.     Findings from the monitoring and evaluation studies suggest achievements
concerning reductions in travel times, reductions in transport cost to major markets and
health facilities, increases in average monthly incomes and expenditures of farmers by a
minimum of 10 percent, more than five times reduction in waiting time for transport
(rural and urban), increase in major farm produce prices by a minimum of 50 percent, an
increase of 42 percent average contact of farmers to extension service providers and,
improvements in the transport-related indicators of the MDGs.

47.     While some gains have been realized in traffic management and safety, the
fatality rate still remains unacceptably high and efforts are continuing to reduce the
number of road accidents and fatalities. Advancement in the compilation of vehicle
statistics in the country is also continuing as is compliance with axle load regulations on
the trunk road network and at Tema Harbor.

48.     The impact of training on the human resource capacity of staff members in the
sector has improved GOG's overall capacity and impacted positively in the areas of
administration, planning, supervision, monitoring and evaluation. GOG staff who have
benefited from training demonstrate higher motivation and their retention rate has also
improved. It would be important to ensure that the training programs are sustained in the
future.

49.     The Letter of Sector Policy agreed as part of project appraisal committed to
ensuring sustainable funding for road sector program; it was agreed that government will
improve inflow into the road fund by progressively increasing user charges towards a
goal of cedi equivalent of US$130 million by end of project. Over the past five years,
fuel levy increased from 230 cedis in 2002 to 600 cedis in 2007. The total inflow into
road fund increased from US$51 million in 2002 to US$125 million in 2007.

                       Table 2:       Details of Road Fund Revenue

                 2002         2003         2004        2005        2006         2007
  In US ($       51           79           84          115         118          125
  million)



3.3 Efficiency


50.     Although there were significant delays in project implementation, the economic
rates of return of the project investments were significantly higher than estimated at
appraisal. Project life was assumed at 20 years with a discount rate of 12 percent. The
economic analysis was conducted for the: (i) national highway network (GHA
component) (ii) feeder road network (DFR component) and (iii) urban road network
(DUR component). As RSDP is part of a sector program, the economic analysis focused
on a sample of roads from each component.




                                           13

51.     At completion, Economic viability was reassessed for a sample of GHA, DUR
and DFR roads and the analysis showed that (i) compared to the assumption made in the
feasibility studies that average daily traffic (ADT) will on average grow at 6 percent for
all road classifications, it actually grew by 18 percent for GHA roads, by 8 percent for
DUR roads and by 21 percent for DFR roads; (ii) significant savings in VOC and travel
time were recorded, particularly for DUR and GHA roads; and (iii) economic rate of
returns (ERRs) varied between 24 percent and 167 percent for the GHA roads, between
50 percent and 110 percent for DUR roads, and between 29 percent and over 100 percent
for DFR roads, all significantly higher than the appraisal estimates.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

52.     The overall outcome of the project is rated "satisfactory". Although there were
some delays in overall project implementation, this is not unusual for a project of this
size, institutional complexity and nationwide scope. Nor did it affect the achievement of
the project development objectives and outcome. The objectives and design of the
project remained highly relevant throughout and the project made a significant
contribution towards the sustainable development of Ghana's road sector. The quality
and quantity of roads in both the urban and rural areas improved considerably all over
Ghana; financing of road maintenance was made more sustainable through appropriate
road user charges; transport costs declined as did travel time to major markets and health
facilities; price of major farm products increased and there was increased contact time
between farmers and extension workers.

53.     Improvements were recorded in traffic management, safety, and in the
compilation of a variety of transport and traffic related data which will assist in the future
planning for the sector. Substantial improvements took place in the quality of sector staff
through the provision of adequate training at all staff levels. All of these improvements
were evident in project investments achieving economic rates of return higher than
estimated at appraisal.




                                            14

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.    A Baseline and Impact Monitoring Study was commissioned to establish the
impact of road investments being undertaken. The study established indicators for the
baseline and monitoring phases and provided a good basis for assessing the impact of
road investment on poverty reduction and economic development. Significant
improvements were noticed in the accessibility, mobility, welfare and some MDG indices
measured during the monitoring phase establishing a correlation between road investment
and economic development. Some of the outcomes established by the study were:

    ·  Average household monthly income for farmers increased by 15 percent, while
       monthly expenditure increased by 20 percent.
    ·  Prices of selected major farm produce indicate increases of not less than 50
       percent.
    ·  Reduction in travel times to educational and health facilities were estimated at 14
       percent and 18 percent respectively.
    ·  There was an increase of 16 percent in transport cost to major markets and a 6
       percent increase in cost of travel to health facilities.    These increases were
       significantly lower than inflation.
    ·  An increase of 27 percent in proportion of respondents who identified access to
       health facilities as good.
    ·  Waiting times for commuters were reduced by five times.
    ·  An increase of 42 percent in the average contact per farmer to agricultural
       extension services.
    ·  More than three times the proportion of respondents as previously reported
       indicated passenger transport as now reliable.
    ·  Frequency of trips to health facilities increased two times.
    ·  A reduction of 55 percent of respondents who reported inaccessibility as a cause
       of produce loss.




                                           15

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

55.     The following activities were undertaken to develop the institutional capacity of
the Ministry and its agencies:

    ·   Policy Documents on Tolling of Roads and Axle Load Control were prepared.
        Weigh bridges installed at six locations to check and mitigate the incidence of
        vehicle overloading.     The action plans led to privatization of six axle load
        stations.
    ·   Preparation of National Transport Policy and Strategy Document, which for the
        first time facilitated harmonization and integration of multiple activities carried
        out by different sub-ministries under a common framework
    ·   Preparation of a Fuel levy policy study which addresses revenue generation and
        management issues concerning the Ghana Road Fund. The study developed a set
        of action plans, which are under discussion for implementation in the following
        years.
    ·   Extensive external and internal training programs: (i) established a Masters
        program in road transport engineering at the Kwame Nkrumah University of
        Science and Technology (KNUST) and the twinning of the Engineering College
        of KNUST with the Indian Institute of Technology in Chennai, India; and (ii)
        launched a post-graduate program in road and transport engineering for the public
        and private sectors in West Africa sub region with support from the University of
        Birmingham, United Kingdom. A total of 35 engineers have been enrolled in the
        M.Sc degree program. The Ministry was able to address some identified areas of
        weakness in the road sector without seeking external support. The capacity to
        formulate policies and undertake the relevant studies has improved as the sector
        relied mainly on its internal capacity to prepare the Transport Policy. The use of
        consultants to support activities particularly in the area of financial management,
        procurement and project management is almost non-existent since regular GOG
        staff is now providing these services. However, with respect to procurement
        capacity, there remain a few challenges. Internal mobility of staff is quite high
        and so when the recipient of procurement training moves from his position, a gap
        is left. This is being addressed through continuous training programs and the
        feasibility of establishing a dedicated procurement unit is being examined. Most
        of the staff trained under the project have been retained within the sector as the
        training has been designed to solve specific sector needs thereby making the
        trainee motivated to stay and apply the acquired knowledge.

(c)     Road Safety

56.     Road safety continues to be one of the greatest challenges facing the developing
world and Ghana is no exception. Ghana's National Road Safety Commission now
stands out as one of the most efficient on the continent. Under the project, a number of
activities were undertaken in the area of road safety, including development of road
safety action plan, capacity building in ten Regional Road Safety Committees,
development and implementation of weekly electronic media programs and outreach
activities targeted at various road user groups, upgrading training of over 4,500


                                            16

commercial vehicle drivers, training of over 240,000 children and 36,000 teachers in
basic traffic survival skills, and production of video documentaries on road safety to
educate and inform the general public on broad road safety issues. Awareness levels are
high.    GHA and DUR have established in-house road safety units and have
institutionalized road safety audits as part of their design process. These activities have
led to a significant reduction in accidents in the country as outlined in Table 3 below.
Much remains to be done, and with the cost of road deaths and injuries estimated as up to
1% of GDP, the Bank will remain engaged in efforts to promote safer roads in their
follow-on projects.


                     Table 3:       Details of Accident Fatality Rate

                      2002            2003        2004         2005       2006
  Fatality rate per   27              26          31           23         22
  10,000 vehicles




                                           17

(d) Vehicle licensing and inspection

57.    A number of activities were undertaken in the area of vehicle licensing and
inspection, including modernizing registration and testing system for drivers' license,
developing environmental compliance program for vehicles, privatizing testing and
examination of vehicles, and introduction of written examination for drivers in the
country. These efforts have led to improvements in safety standards and the quality of
life.

(e)    HIV/AIDS

    ·  Completed HIV/AIDS education in the communities along the Anyinam-
       Nkawkaw road project, and
    ·  Developed by the MOT, a workplace policy to guide in-house HIV/AIDS
       activities.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

58.    A number of workshops and surveys were undertaken as part of the project
implementation, particularly to support development and adoption of a national transport
policy and institutional development strategy, poverty impact monitoring surveys,
transport indicator surveys, road safety surveys, HIV/AIDS dissemination workshops,
and axle load workshop. Some of the key activities were:

59.    Baseline and impact monitoring surveys: The study objective was to understand
"before" and "after" situations along project corridors to enhance understanding of the
impact of investments on social and economic development.           The first survey was
undertaken in February 2005, followed by surveys in February 2006 and February 2007.
The surveys were used to collect data on indicators to establish relationship between road
condition (feeder and urban roads) and accessibility and mobility indicators.

60.    Transport indicator study: The transport indicator and data base study is aimed
at developing indicators for monitoring and assessment of the impact of transport
investments. MOT is working with Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) together with over 30
transport related stakeholders to collect and disseminate results from the studies. The
surveys conducted as part of this component include: (i) institutional surveys; (ii)
household surveys; and (iii) transport operator surveys.

61.    Road safety workshops: A number of outreach and workshop activities were
undertaken over the past five years targeted at various road user groups: school children,
teachers, vehicle drivers, road agencies, private sector, insurance agents, regional road
safety coordinators, etc. The workshops led to training of over 240,000 children, 36,000
teachers, 4,500 commercial vehicle drivers, ten full time regional road safety
coordinators.




                                          18

62.     HIV/AIDS workshops: Various interventions have been undertaken by the road
agencies with respect to incorporating HIV/AIDS issues into their projects. HIV/AIDS
education in the communities along the Anyinam-Nkawkaw road project is completed
while the program for the Ho-Fume and Sogakope-Adidome, Sefwi Wiawso-Benkyema
roads are at approval stage. A number of workshops have been held in the past with
communities and contractors along the project road to raise awareness and reflect specific
concerns in the project design.

63.     Environmental and Social Participation/Consultations: There were six main
levels of participation/consultation.
    i)      Local and national government participation in decision making regarding
            roads or road sections to be rehabilitated/constructed.
    ii)     National government's selection of contractors and consultants to be
            contracted for project preparation and implementation.
    iii)    National government's overall supervision of project implementation.
    iv)     Local businesses and individual citizens' participation in project preparation,
            and implementation, as contractual.
    v)      Donors participation in government's sector policy and investment program.
    vi)     Project beneficiaries and project affected persons' participation in the
            preparation and implementation of safeguards instruments.

64.     In conjunction with the preparation and the implementation of the safeguards
instruments, a series of consultations were carried out, particularly during the social
impact assessment of project affected persons (PAPs) and the implementation of the
RAPs. The PAPs were also consulted again during the resettlement audit. Overall, about
5000 persons were consulted during the preparation implementation of RSDP. During the
resettlement audit alone, in the month of December 2006, as confirmed by the audit
reports, about 903 persons were consulted, excluding local government and national
government officials. The persons consulted included 591 heads of households/house
owners (about 300 females) and 312 businesses.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

65.     Rating: Low       Risk posed to development outcome is considered low for the
following reasons:

    ·   Funding for road maintenance has increased consistently and the private sector is
        more involved in maintenance planning and implementation
    ·   Key studies on institutional strengthening and development of a National
        Transport Policy have been carried out
    ·   Improved capacity has been created to plan and manage highway network through
        wide spread training in HDM
    ·   Expanded and improved road network is providing increased benefit for the
        population at large
    ·   Challenges to efficiency of local construction industry have been identified and
        action plan is being implemented to address them



                                           19

    ·   A network of axle load weigh stations have been established on key routes
    ·   Substantive training program carried out, evidenced in improved performance and
        ability of sector to retain staff
    ·   Mainstreaming of fiduciary functions, decreasing dependence on consultants
    ·   Road safety capacity improved, awareness created and improvements in road
        safety statistics noted.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

66.     The quality at entry of the Bank's performance is rated as `satisfactory'. The
project was well designed, with clearly stated objectives. Prior to the commencement of
the RSDP, the project preparation team was able to take stock of all the lessons learnt of
the previous programmes, and apply them to the project design. Substantial consultations
were held and reflected in the project design. The appraisal of the project was done
jointly with all other development partners in the sector, providing for coordinated
actions and a joint reporting format for all stakeholders. The skill mix for project
preparation was good.

(b) Quality of Supervision

67.     The quality of supervision is also rated as `satisfactory'. The Bank undertook
regular supervision missions and a joint World Bank and Teams from the various Road
Sector Development Partners performed annual supervisory visits together with their
Ghanaian counterparts culminating in extensive discussions at an end of year conference.
There was effective dialogue with GOG with the team addressing issues candidly with
their counterparts. The Team Leader was supported by a team of specialists in the course
of the implementation. The cooperation, the sharing of monitoring results, re-orientation
of policies and seeking improved impact through constant innovation was greatly
enhanced. The presence of staff in the country office allowed for more continuous
monitoring, participation in the monthly government/development partner road sector
meetings, providing the Bank a position of influence and allowing for harmonized
principles and effective knowledge sharing. Monitoring of indicators was initially
inconsistent, but improved substantially by the close of project, especially after indicators
were harmonized.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

68.     Overall Bank performance is rated `satisfactory'.                This takes into
consideration the quality at entry, the strong cooperation between the project team and
the GOG, the Bank's ability to play a lead role in coordinating the large number of
donors in the road sector, the achievement of the project development objectives and, the




                                          20

sustained policy dialogue with the GOG leading to continuing Bank engagement in the
sector.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

69.     Satisfactory - GOG performance as reflected through the MOT is rated
satisfactory. MOT was a strong partner in sector reform and championed the dialogue
throughout project preparation and implementation. MOT's level of commitment to the
sector was high. MOT successfully led the dialogue with the Development Partners and
played a strong coordination role between all stakeholders. The organization of annual
road sector development partner meetings created a basis for all stakeholders within and
without the sector to periodically review and confirm the direction of the sector. All
issues pertaining to policy reform and institutional strengthening was led by MOT.
Whilst implementation activity was mainly undertaken by its agencies, MOT played a
strong monitoring and coordinating role in all project activities.

(b) Implementing Agency(s) Performance

70.     The performance of the three main implementing agencies is discussed below.

71.     Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) - The level of ownership and commitment
from the GHA in achieving the Project objectives are rated satisfactory. According
to GHA, the RSDP was a comprehensive and integrated project and offered an unique
opportunity in the realisation of the agency's objectives. An enabling environment was
created for the beneficiary communities, contractors and consultants during the
implementation of the project. Beneficiary and stakeholder consultations and
involvement was encouraged. Consultations were in the form of discussions and meetings
with the aim of addressing the needs of the beneficiary communities, consultants and
contractors.

72.     Readiness for implementation, implementation arrangements and the capacity and
of key staff for the implementation of the RSDP was moderately satisfactory. Though
the GHA lacked the required staff with the requisite skills to support every aspect of
project implementation, some staff of the GHA had the opportunity to undertake training
tours and postgraduate training in universities within and outside to upgrade skills and
knowledge. The project also gave support for institution capacity building through the
provision of logistics and materials needed for GHA operations.

73.     Local consultants undertook the supervision of almost all works financed under
the IDA component and GHA took over the supervision after the expiry of the contract of
the consultants. Since resources for monitoring and evaluation were available, GHA
managed to supervise, monitor and evaluate the implementation of the project quite
adequately.




                                          21

Department of Urban Roads

74.     The level of ownership and commitment from the DUR in achieving the
project objectives was also satisfactory since the objectives of the RSDP were closely
aligned with the agency's objectives. As the level of ownership was high, an enabling
environment was created for all stakeholders. Stakeholder consultations and involvement
was adequate. These consultations were in the form of discussions and meetings with
beneficiary communities, consultants and contractors.

75.     The capacity for timely resolution of implementation issues by DUR was
satisfactory. Improvements were noted in financial management, governance, provision
of counterpart funding, and in compliance with covenants. However, in procurement
matters and in seeking reimbursements from IDA, DUR's performance could have been
better. Local consultants undertook the supervision of almost all works financed under
the IDA component and their performance was adequate

76.     Readiness for implementation, implementation arrangements and the capacity of
key staff for the implementation of the RSDP were satisfactory. Overall, DUR had the
required number of staff with the requisite skills to support RSDP implementation.
However, the RSDP provided support for institutional capacity building through the
provision of training, logistics and materials needed for DUR operations which helped
overcome many of its capacity constraints.

Department of Feeder Roads

77.     The level of ownership and commitment from the DFR in achieving the
project objectives was satisfactory. An enabling environment was created for all
stakeholders (consultants, beneficiary communities and contractors) during the
implementation of the project. Beneficiary and stakeholder consultations in the form of
discussions and meetings were adequate and fully addressed the concerns of the
participants.

78.     Readiness for implementation, implementation arrangements and the capacity of
key staff for the implementation of the RSDP was moderately satisfactory. Though the
DFR lacked the required number of staff with the requisite skills to support the project
implementation, some staff of the DFR went on training tours and postgraduate training
in universities within and outside to upgrade skills and knowledge in support of the
project. The project also gave support for institution capacity building through the
provision of logistics and materials needed for DFR operations.

79.     DFR's performance in the timely resolution of implementation issues was
moderately satisfactory, much like the GHA and DUR and for essentially the same
reasons. Performance in the areas of financial management, governance, provision of
counterpart funding, procurement, disbursements and compliance with covenants can be
rated satisfactory. Local consultants undertook the supervision of almost all works




                                          22

financed under the IDA component but DFR took over the supervision after the expiry of
the contract of the consultants.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

80.     Based on the assessment of the performance of the various agencies in relation to
the targets outlined in the RSDP, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as
satisfactory. Although the project suffered from some initial delays, both the Ministry
and the three main implementation agencies improved their performance in all aspects of
project implementation and met all of the physical and institutional objectives that had
been set. All of the improvements that have taken place are also sustainable which is
evidenced by the active leadership role that these institutions are playing in the
preparation of the follow up project covering all the transport sub-sectors.

6. Lessons Learned

81.     Project Preparation: The Bank's preparedness criteria requires that first year
works should be fully designed and ready for contracting as soon as the project becomes
effective. Major differences between expected and actual costs may often result in the
face of poorly designed projects.

82.     Supporting Institutional Development. The transport sector, with its strong
engineering orientation, is particularly good at resolving technical issues. However,
institutional objectives (for example introducing efficiency in the management of road
funds or managing political expectations) take time and there should be realism in setting
goals. Where the requirements bring about changes in roles, responsibilities, and
relationships, there is a need to understand the impact on the culture and values of
societies, sectors, and institutions for which the change is proposed. Experience suggests
that best results are achieved through long-term relationships where new ideas can be
introduced indirectly and gradually, in pursuit of a shared vision and a road map. It is
also critical to support institution building rather than hanging projects on a single
champion, who may change during the project life.

83.     Supporting a maintenance culture is often more difficult than investments in
new roads.      The existence of a road fund is not a sufficient condition for good
management of the road network. It is equally important that there is an appreciation at
the highest level to protect and preserve the existing assets. This would require that
maintenance of the existing assets should be given a priority over expansion This also
raises the issue of how best to manage the tension between the immediacy of the political
agenda versus the longer time frame captured by economic criteria employed in the
planning/ prioritization of expenditures. This tension is more problematic given the large
size and relative durability of investments in the roads sector.

84.     Supervision and monitoring of works: Continuous and close monitoring the
execution of contract projects is essential to ensure that steady progress is maintained.
This requires that the number of contracts is not very large to allow an appropriate level



                                            23

of supervision. At one point, there were over 150 contracts let-out by DFR, each small
in quantity and spread all over the country, making it difficult to supervise contracts. The
option of Output and Performance Based Road Contracts should be explored to minimize
the number of contracts.      It is also important to periodically update the contractor
classification to ensure that only well qualified contractors are able to compete while at
the same time making the process transparent and open so as not to suppress competition.
It is equally important to improve procurement capacity and pay special attention to
retaining the qualified staff.

85.     Develop a good monitoring system. A detailed monitoring and evaluation
system is critical for effective supervision and to adapt the project design to address
specific needs during implementation. Focus should not only be limited to capturing the
"output" indicators but also the "outcome" indicators.

86.     Environmental and social framework: The main lessons learned are: (i) a first
time preparation and implementation of safeguards instruments requires close supervision
and consistent support of the client; (ii) acquiring at detailed design stage, the Executive
Instrument, which in Ghana, is the document that authorizes land acquisition, is key to a
timely preparation and implementation of a RAP.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Partners

(a) Borrower agencies

87.     The RSDP has been implemented in close cooperation between the Borrower, the
implementing agencies, the Bank and the other development partners (DPs) involved in
the transport sector in Ghana.      The exchange of ideas during implementation was
continuous and frequent, with many of the DPs (including the Bank) having offices in
Ghana which made the cooperation very timely and, therefore, even more effective.
Even the preparation of the Bank's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and the
GOG's own project completion report for the RSDP was done in parallel and in close
cooperation. It is therefore not surprising that the broad lessons learned by both the
Borrower and the Bank are not very different from each other. The Borrower's main
conclusions were that "on the whole, the project achieved most of its relevant
development objectives, which was to stimulate growth and contribute to poverty
reduction through improved road infrastructure. The project also achieved satisfactory
development results. Although, implementation encountered some challenges, findings
from studies undertaken provide the platform to ensure better implementation of future
projects. Road maintenance planning and funding is expected to be more sustainable.
Implementation of maintenance programmes will benefit from improved skills and
knowledge as well as general monitoring and supervision of road projects have improved.
The MOT and its agencies were resourced but these resources have to be sustained to
enable them to effectively carry out their responsibilities and future assignments".

88.     While the RSDP focused on the road sector only, the follow-up project -
Transport Sector Development Program (TSDP) - which is currently under preparation,



                                           24

will cover all transport related sectors (roads, ports and harbours, railways, and civil
aviation) and will be implemented by the three transport sector ministries. While the
scope of the TSDP will be wider, the overarching objective will essentially remain the
same as that of RSDP, i.e. poverty reduction. As such, the lessons learned from RSDP
are being fully integrated in the preparation of the TSDP.

(b) Other partners

89.    As noted before, there were a number of DPs (14) supporting the RSDP in Ghana
and cooperation among them was very close.            The DPs designated the European
Commission (EC) as the Lead Development Partner for the transport sector and EC's
comments on the RSDP (attached in Annex 6) notes that "preparation, appraisal, and
monitoring meetings of World Bank for this project were in close coordination with other
Development Partners in the Transport Sector Group" and "complimentary interventions
on analytical work, policy preparation and studies was achieved through close
coordination, including sharing of draft ToR's and joint reviewing of each other's draft
reports - thus optimizing use of resources and improving the quality of outputs".

90.    It must also be noted that while the RSDP was focused on the road sector, as the
lead donor in the transport sector, the EC played a key role in the integration of various
transport sub-sectors, in public finance management with respect to the transport sector,
and in building up GOG capacity in policy formulation and planning. Cooperation
between all the DPs is expected to continue in the follow up project which will cover all
the transport sub-sectors.




                                           25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
           Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                               millions)
Periodic Maintenance, Minor                                       77.61         134.9%
                                               57.50
Rehabilitation
Major Rehabilitation,                         119.00             125.10         105%
Reconstruction And Upgrading
Traffic Management And Safety                   2.60                3.26        125%
Institutional Strengthening                    38.40              48.78         127%
Project Operation                               2.50                5.76        230%


             Total Baseline Cost              220.00             260.503

Physical Contingencies*
                                                0.00                0.00        0.00

Price Contingencies*
                                                0.00                0.00        0.00
              Total Project Costs             220.00             260.50       118.4%
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                0.00        .00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                0.00        .00
      Total Financing Required                220.00             260.50       118.4%


* Contingencies are built into components 1,2 and 3




3
 Increased figure was due to weakened dollar /SDR exchange rate




                                                26

(b) Financing
                                               Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal
                                                Estimate    Percentage of
         Source of Funds           Estimate
                                                  (USD       Appraisal
                                 (USD millions)
                                                millions)
African Development Bank           59.90         191.43       320%
Arab Bank for Economic
                                   11.78          17.22
Development in Africa                                         146%
Borrower                          226.04         977.78       433%
DENMARK: Danish Intl. Dev.
                                   34.00          65.41
Assistance (DANIDA)                                           192%
UK: British Department for
International Development          47.80          59.67
(DFID)                                                        125%
EC: European Commission            61.96         173.42       280%
FRANCE: French Agency for
                                   30.20          59.17
Development                                                   196%
NETHERLANDS, Govt. of THE
(Except for MOFA/Min of Dev.        9.10          26.91
Coop                                                          296%
GERMANY: German Technical
                                    0.50           0.50
Assistance Corporation (GTZ)                                  100%
International Development
                                  220.00         267.12
Association (IDA)                                             121%
JAPAN: Japan Bank for
                                  150.00           0.00
Internaitonal Cooperation (JBIC)                                 0%
JAPAN: Japan International
                                   10.00          92.82
Cooperation Agency (JICA)                                     928%
GERMANY: Kreditanstalt Fur
                                   52.90          90.73
Wiederaufbau (Kfw)                                            172%
OPEC FUND                           6.00          20.48       341%
FOREIGN SOURCES
                                  261.82           0.00
(UNIDENTIFIED)                                                   0%
West African Development Fund
                                    9.00           5.47
(FONDS CEDEAO)                                                  61%
Chinese Government                  -             28.00




                                        27

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


   Objectives           Key Performance Indicators                            Status as at December 2007


Sector-Related     Sector Indicators:
CAS Goal:
                   Average VOC of transporting goods         Studies are on-going under Baseline Studies and Monitoring
Alleviating key    reduced by at least 10%;                  of the Impact of RSDP on poverty reduction
infrastructure
deficiencies,      No. of fatalities and injuries through    Fatality risk as at end of 2006 stands at 8.22 deaths per
particularly       accidents per vehicles reduced by at      100,000 population
roads for the      least 10%.
promotion of
economic
growth, poverty
alleviation, rural
development,
agricultural
growth and
regional equality



Project            Improve road condition mix from 35%       GHA: 57% Good, 26% Fair & 17% Poor [11,180km]
Development :      good, 45% fair and 20% poor in 2000       DFR: 35% Good, 37% Fair & 28% Poor [42,010km]
                   to 59% good, 27% fair and 14% poor        DUR: 34% Good, 2% Fair & 64% Poor [9,764km]
Sustainable        by end of program.                        National Average: 39% Good, 29% Fair & 32% Poor
improvements in
the supply and     Average travel time between district      Travel time between Accra and Kumasi reduced from 6 hours
performance of     capitals reduced by at least 15% by end   to 4 hours (about 50%)
roads and road     of program;
transport
services in a      Amount of maintainable feeder roads       Maintainable feeder roads in 2007 is 18,000km
regionally         increase from 11,500km in 2000 to
equitable          16,220km in 2006.
manner.
                   DVLA inspection of total vehicle                                        No.        No.        %
                   registered increased by 20% by end of          Year          No.       Insp.       Reg.    Inspected

                   program.                                   2002           595,250    400,522      43,257     67.3
                                                              2003           643,324    441,357      48,074     68.6
                                                              2004           702,872    442,885      59,548     63.0
                                                              2005           767,791    461,843      64,419     60.2
                                                              2006           841,314    529,661      74,247     63.0
                                                              2007           931,642    636,344      90,328     68.3
                                                              2008           987,439    341,877      54,673     34.6
                                                              (Jan-June)



                   NRSC to reduce fatality rate of 73 per    Fatality rate (deaths/10,000 vehicles as at end of 2006 was
                   10,000 vehicles by 5% by 2005.            22.1.

                   Increase fuel levy to ¢230/litre in 2001; Fuel levy during 2001-2006 were ¢230/litre; ¢230/litre;
                   ¢310/litre in 2002; ¢395/litre in 2003    ¢400/litre; ¢400/litre; ¢600/litre respectively.




                                                        28

   Objectives                   Key Performance Indicators                     Status as at end of December 2007

Component 1:
Routine Maint.                                                                Achievements
Targeted routine
                                                                                  2002        2003       2004       2005
maintenance
                                                                                 8,835.7      9,369    13,074.5    12,127.0
carried out
                                                                                 11,782.0    15,200    18,463.0    17,119.0
annually by:                           11,600km coverage
                                                                                  986.0       3,616    2,449.7     3,313.2
       GHA                             13,900km coverage
       DFR                              1,750km coverage
                                                                                  2006         2007      Avg
       DUR
                                                                                 12,825.1    8,114.79   10,724

                                                                                 17,340.0    13,620.0   15,587
                                                                                 3,634.8     2,827.34    2,805

Component 2:
Periodic Maint.,                                                              Achievements
Rehabilitation                                                                    2002      2003     2004      2005

and Upgrading                                                                     201.5     891.1    484      479.93
                                                                                 3603.0     2411     3688      3652
Targeted
                                                                                  95.2      60.6     323      236.37
kilometers carried
out annually by:     2002    2003    2004     2005   2006      2007    Total
                                                                                  2006       2007        Total
       GHA           1380    1380    1300    585.7    992      165.6   5,803
                                                                                 253.72     556.06     2,866.31
                     4080    4915    4000     3582   3221      1,371   21,169
       DFR                                                                       1369.5     2,179.0    16,902.50
                     211     660      735    734.3   531.17    3,209   6,081
       DUR                                                                       417.05     532.12     1,664.34

Component 3:
Major Rehab. and                                                              Achievements
Reconstruction                                                                    2002      2003     2004      2005

Targeted                                                                          40.0      150.0    180.0    209.75
                                                                                    -         -       -         -
kilometers carried
                                                                                    -         -       -        16.00
out annually by:
       GHA           2002   2003     2004    2005    2006      2007    Total
                                                                                  2006       2007        Total
       DFR           265     253     160      248    200       200     1,326
                                                                                 146.53     183.55       909.83
                      20     20      20       0       0         0       60
       DUR                                                                          -          -           -
                      7      76      102     13.2     2         4      204
                                                                                  7.00       7.00        30.00

Component 4:
Traffic Mgmt.
and Safety
Planned action
completed to
improve traffic
mgmt. & safety

Engineering
GHA                No. of road safety hazard sites treated                     I21 sites treated w/calming devices

                   No. of traffic signals installed                            140No.of traffic signals installed

DUR                3500km of road with line marking                            1,492km road line marking achieved
Legal
MOT,        NRSC,  Road Traffic Bill when passed to supersede existing         Road Traffic Act has been enacted (Act
MTTU               ordinance                                                   683)

Education          Creation of accident data bank                              National road accident statistics updated
BRRI                                                                           from 1996-2006 by BRRI
DVLA
                   Preparation of syllabus for driving school;                 Completed and being used by designated
                                                                               driving schools
                   Increase in private garages that carry out inspection       License issued to (6) private garage
                                                                               operators to construct and operate.
Component 5:
Institutional




                                                     29

   Objectives               Key Performance Indicators                    Status as at end of December 2007

Strengthening

Institutional    Annual work program of agency submitted by end of       Compiled
capacity of MOT, August annually
road agencies
enhanced for
sustainable      Rolling multi-year program for construction and         Compiled
program          operation submitted to Ministry of Finance by October
formulation and  annually
implementation

                 % of work carried by contract (as opposed to force      About 96% of works carried out by
                 account)                                                contract during year 2006 and 2007



                 Environmental and social assessment regulations and     Environmental and social assessment
                 procedures adopted and practiced by DUR and DFR         regulation and procedures adopted and
                                                                         practiced by Road Agencies are now
                                                                         incorporated in contract agreements

                 Number of trainees completed their courses and training A number of staff have benefited from
                 as programmed                                           local   and   foreign     training  since
                                                                         commencement of RSDP

                 Implementation of National Policy on HIV/AIDS and       MOT has completed an HIV/AIDS
                 STDs                                                    workplace policy for the ministry but yet
                                                                         to complete a National policy for the road
                                                                         sector.




                                                 30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.   At appraisal, the economic viability of the project was determined by calculating
the economic rate of return (ERR), net present value (NPV) and benefit cost ratio (B/C).
Project life was assumed at 20 years, with a capital investment period from 2001 to 2004.
A discount rate of 12 percent was assumed for the GHA component. The economic
analysis was conducted for the civil works, which consist of reconstruction, rehabilitation
and maintenance of the: (i) national priority network (GHA component) (ii) feeder road
network (DFR component) and (iii) urban road network (DUR component). As the RSDP
is a sector program, the economic analysis focused on a sample of roads from each
component. These included roads in the first year, plus some roads from the maintenance
and rehabilitation program in ensuing years.

2.   Economic analysis was based on projections of traffic, vehicle operating costs
(VOC), project economic costs and transport user benefits. For the GHA component the
HDM model was used to evaluate benefits. Benefits included VOC savings, accident
savings and employment benefits. Because of low traffic levels on the rural roads, the
analysis of the DFR component estimated VOC savings based on traffic counts and
estimated goods transport cost savings based on an assessment of agricultural production
in each of the road districts. The DUR component was evaluated on the basis of VOC
savings, with the HDM model replaced by a more appropriate analytical model designed
particularly for this evaluation.   The resulting economic indicators for the various
components of the RSDP at appraisal are as follows:

                        Indicator                    At Appraisal

                                            GHA         DUR        DFR

                NPV (Overall)               281.0       614.5      41.3

                ERR (Average)                31%        82%        75%

                B/C Ratio (Average)           6           *         21

                      * Not calculated


3.   At completion, the economic viability of the project was reassessed for a sample of
GHA, DUR and DFR roads to compare them to the appraisal estimates. The assessment
was carried out with respect to traffic volumes, VOC savings and time savings, all of
which ultimately affect the overall ERR. A summary of this analysis shows:

    ·  Compared to the assumption made in the feasibility studies that average daily
       traffic (ADT) will on average grow at 6 percent for all road classifications, it
       actually grew by 18 percent for GHA roads, by 8 percent for DUR roads and by
       21 percent for DFR roads. The significantly higher growth rates for GHA and
       DFR roads have important implications in terms of achieving the PDOs;

    ·  Significant savings in VOC and travel time were recorded, particularly for DUR
       and GHA roads;




                                         31

    ·   ERRs varied between 24 percent and 167 percent for the GHA roads, between 50
        percent and 110 percent for DUR roads, and between 29 percent and 420 percent
        for DFR roads, all significantly higher than the appraisal estimates.

Methodology and Assumptions:

4.    The feasibility study of the feeder roads used the hybrid approach of combining the
producer surplus or value added methodology and consumer surplus or savings in vehicle
operating costs to economically assessed the project roads. These methodologies
considered benefits or value added to farmers' output as increased marketing surplus and
reduced losses as well as savings to transporters. The cost components included the cost
of improvement, consultancy fees and maintenance costs. To provide a common basis for
comparison, for the feeder roads with low levels of motorization in particular, post
evaluations have been conducted using the same producer surplus or value added
methodologies and consumer surplus or savings in vehicle operating costs. The field data
has been complemented by other secondary source information and used in the economic
analysis.

5.    The economic evaluation of the selected trunk and urban roads has been applied for
the various construction options used for the roads improvement. Three work classes of
maintenance levels, namely, routine, periodic and emergency maintenance scenarios,
which are in line with the HDM-IV classification were used in the analysis.

6.    The economic viability of the project has been measured mainly by calculating the
ERR of the road rehabilitation component. From the findings of the ex-post evaluation
for the selected trunk, feeder and urban roads, using actual contract values and updated
road and traffic data, differences between the computed ERRs and estimated ERRs from
earlier analyses have been explained including the following outputs:

    o Summary of traffic data

    o Summary of VOC savings (observed and estimated)

    o Summary of time savings (observed and estimated)

    o ERR/NPV for the selected roads


7.    A summary of the economic analysis for the selected RSDP roads has been
presented in Tables 1-3.




                                           32

Trunk Roads

Table 1 ­ Summary of Economic Analysis for Trunk Roads

                         Length     Cost      NPV          ERR       AADT 2001   AADT 2007  Cost/km

Road Name                 (km)    (US$M)     @ 15%                               (veh/day)
                                                       Base  Current  (veh/day)              (000's)

                                                              Study                         (US$/km)

Bole - Tinga              53.0      2.69      6.96     13      54       114        522       50.75

Mallam - Kasoa            18.0      18.0      52.61    45     167      8,306      12,946    1,000.00

Jasikan - Brewaniase      33.0      4.15      13.92    30      45       488         894      125.76

Tamale - Yendi            43.0      0.97      5.48     19      24       203         376      22.56




Urban Roads

Table 2 ­ Summary of Economic Analysis for Urban Roads

                         Length     Cost      NPV          ERR       AADT 2001   AADT 2007  Cost/km

Road Name                 (km)    (US$M)     @ 15%                               (veh/day)
                                                       Base  Current  (veh/day)              (000's)

                                                              Study                         (US$/km)

Nsawam Road                7.0     35.73      29.20    63     110      18,507     34,565    5,104.29

Bomso Road                 1.6      0.74      0.24     42      83       2,358      4,476     462.50

Daboya - Nyohini Road      1.8      1.54      0.34     25      95       2,352      3,312     855.56

Industrial Area Road       2.0      1.43      1.54     25      50       1,351      2,045     715.00




                                                     32

Feeder Roads

Table 3 ­ Summary of Economic Analysis for Feeder Roads

        Road name         Length      Cost        NPV         ERR        AADT      AADT      Cost/km

                          (km)      (US$M)       @ 15%                    2001      2007      (000's)
                                                          Base  Current
                                                                        (veh/day) (veh/day)  (US$/km)
                                                                 Study


Nobekaw - Nyamebekyere    16.6        0.77        10.37   52      64      196       420       46.39

Ampoma - Anyima           13.6        0.12        0.49    86      89       39        84        8.82

Sawla - Gelekon           10.4        0.17        0.33    35      46       2         13       16.35

Torsa - Ducie              6.0        0.07        0.22    62      67       3         16       11.67

Kwamang - Deduako         23.0        0.26        0.24    24      29       40        65       11.30

Poano - Ntinako - Adowa   12.0        0.06        0.25    72      79      117       168        5.0

Akosombo - Tortibo         6.5        0.05        0.38    120    138       14        23        7.69

Huhunya - Ehiamekyene     15.0        0.73        10.23   26      66      153       224       48.67

Daboase Jn. - Daboase      7.6        0.59        10.88   188    166      236       495       77.63

Zion Camp - Boninsuma      6.8        0.07        0.32    63      83       32        28       10.29

Pokuase - Ablekuma         8.2        0.06        0.47    104    133      251       364        7.32




                                                       33

ERR/NPV for Selected Study Roads

8.    The results from the analyses show the project road investments to be economically
justified. For example, improvements of the trunk roads, recorded ERRs of between 24
percent and 167 percent. The differences in the corresponding net present values are also
significant. The same applies to the selected urban roads, recording ERRs of between 50
percent and 110 percent. Additionally, the feeder roads show ERRs of between 29
percent and over 100 percent. The increase is primarily due to a much higher growth in
traffic volumes subsequent to project road improvements.




                                         34

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
           Names                       Title                Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Imogene Jensen          Snr Transport Economist            EASOP     TTL
Tawia Addo-Ashong       Snr. Transport Specialist          SASDT  Engineering
Kofi Awanyo             Snr. Procurement Specialist        EAPCO  Procurement
                        Snr. Financial Management
Frederick Yankey                                           AFTFM  Fin. Mgmt.
                        Specialist
Nina Chee               Snr. Environmental Specialist      AFTEN  Environment
Antoine Lema            Consultant, Social Safeguards      AFTTR     Social
Charles Boakye          Snr Municipal Engineer             AFTU2  Engineering
Karen Hudes             Snr Counsel                          -       Legal
David Weber             Lead Financial Officer               -    Fin. Mgmt.
Snorri Halgrimsson      Lead Highway Engineer                -      Engineer
Gerhard Tschannerl      Lead Municipal Engineer            AFTPC    Engineer
Richard Scurfield       Lead Transport Specialist          EASUR  Trans. Econ.
Belinda Asaam           Program Assistant                  AFTUI  Prog. Support


Supervision/ICR
Ajay Kumar              Lead Transport Specialist          AFTTR     TTL
Tawia Addo-Ashong       Sr Transport Specialist            SASDT  Engineering
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo   Sr Procurement Specialist          EAPCO  Procurement
Bayo Awosemusi          Lead Procurement Specialist        AFTPC  Procurement
Arun Banerjee           Consultant                         SASDI     M&E
Charity Boafo-Portuphy  Program Assistant                 AFCW1   Prog. Support
Charles K. Boakye       Sr Municipal Engineer.             AFTU2  Engineering
Nina Chee               Sr Environmental Specialist        AFTEN  Environment
Ibou Diouf              Sr Transport. Specialist           AFTTR  Trans. Econ.
Antoine V. Lema         Environmental Consultant           AFTTR  Safeguards
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu     Procurement Consultant             AFTPC  Procurement
Godwin M. Kofi Opoku    Consultant                         AFTTR  Engineering
Kavita Sethi            Sr Transport. Econ.                AFTTR  Economics
Siele Silue             Sr Transport. Spec.                AFTTR  Economics
Frederick Yankey        Sr Financial Management Specialist AFTFM  Fin. Mgmt.
Robert De-Graft Hanson  Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM  Fin. Mgmt.
John K. Richardson      Transport Specialist               AFTTR  Engineering
Ntombie Z. Siwale       Senior Program Assistant           AFTTR  Prog. Support
Salli Wondergem         Program Assistant                 AFCW1   Prog. Support
Gifty Sarfo-Mensah      Program Assistant                 AFCW1   Prog. Support




                                       35

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                           60.92
  FY00                                 41                       239.08
  FY01                                 54                       184.68
  FY02                                 17                        34.55
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00

                        Total:        112                       519.23
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                           10.55
  FY00                                   1                        1.73
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                 12                        75.40
  FY03                                 58                       131.01
  FY04                                 41                       171.25
  FY05                                 35                       180.05
  FY06                                 47                       216.73
  FY07                                 24                       153.72
  FY08                                 24                       131.02

                        Total:        242                     1071.46




                                 36

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR

1.      The objective of RSDP was to achieve sustainable improvements in the supply
and performance of roads and road transport services in a regionally equitable manner. Its
sustainability agenda involved physical, financial as well as environmental aspects which
were closely related to the success of institutional reforms and strengthening. The project
was declared effective on the 15th of January 2002 and jointly financed by 14
development partners with an IDA credit component of SDR 175,300,000. As at the end
of 2007, the GOG contributed an amount of US$ 977.78 Million.

2.      About ninety-eight percent (98 percent) of the IDA credit component was
allocated to three implementing agencies to support civil works covering maintenance,
rehabilitation and reconstruction, traffic management and road safety, and institutional
strengthening. A satisfactory level of achievement was recorded in the key area of civil
works and institutional strengthening and capacity building.

3.      Overall road maintenance achievement in the sector was quite commendable. Out
of a total of 22,350 km that received periodic maintenance, about 2,670km (12 percent)
represented the IDA component of that maintenance activity. The physical achievement
in terms of major rehabilitation and re-construction works was about 800 km of which
200 km (25 percent) was due to IDA intervention. In all, a total of US$184.23 million
was released from the IDA Credit Component for these maintenance activities.

4.      On traffic management and safety, the development of the technical and
institutional capacities of the National Road Safety Commission (NRSC) and Driver and
Vehicle Licensing Authority (DVLA) resulted in some gains in accident reduction.
Moreover, specialized units in the road agencies ensured effective integration and
implementation of environmental, social, occupational health and safety, malaria and
HIV/AIDS issues during project implementation.

5.      Several policy and reform studies were undertaken with funding from the IDA
singularly or jointly with other development partners and recommendations from these
studies are being implemented through action plans prepared by MOT and its Agencies.
Some specific recommendations made and action taken included the preparation of three
policy documents that dealt with Tolling of Roads, Axle Load Control and the Fuel Levy.
In the long term, capacity to undertake PPP projects is being developed through the
initiative of the World Bank via PPIAF. In addition, capacity developed under the RSDP
sustained the sector program through the preparation of the Urban Transport Project,
which is currently being implemented under the Transport Sector Development
Programme. For the first time in the history of Ghana, a National Transport Policy Study
was undertaken with support from the World Bank and a draft White Paper on the Policy
has been prepared and will be released by the government soon.

6.      In terms of human resources development, the establishment of a Post-Graduate
Training in Highway Engineering and Transportation at the Kwame Nkrumah University



                                           37

of Science and Technology (KNUST) in Kumasi, is intended to localise the post-graduate
training of Engineers and to give opportunity to the private sector to improve on their
delivery capacity. This will complement the overseas and in-country training regimes, to
ensure the development of a sustainable human resource capacity for the efficient
management of the road infrastructure. Meanwhile, the goal is to build a self-sustaining
centre of excellence that has international participants and recognition. While, further
assistance will be required in subsequent IDA interventions to sustain the gains, there
should also be a policy directive to encourage the post-graduate training of engineers
locally.

7.      Opportunities were given to senior, middle and junior staff under the program for
training. The junior staffs were trained to improve their skills and knowledge which
brought about attitudinal change in their work. For the middle level personnel, training
was aimed at improving administration and management support to the senior staff and
the focus was in the area of procurement, negotiation skills, contract management, and
monitoring and evaluation. The senior staff was exposed through the training in planning,
programming, budgeting, policy formulation and asset management. On the whole, a
total of 2,215 members of the various categories of senior, middle and junior level staffs
were trained.

8.      Other significant Monitoring and Evaluation studies such as the Baseline and
Impact Monitoring Study was undertaken to test the Programme's fundamental objective
of poverty reduction and economic growth. Findings indicate improvements in
accessibility, mobility, welfare and the attainment of Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) indices measured during project implementation, attested to the fact that the
road investments have direct correlation to poverty reduction and economic development.
In relative terms, road investment made under the RSDP brought about reductions in
transport cost to major markets and health facilities, increases in average monthly
incomes and expenditures of farmers by a minimum of 10 percent, more than five times
reduction in vehicle waiting times (rural and urban), increase in major farm produce
prices by a minimum of 50 percent and an increase of 42 percent average contact of
farmers to extension services, among others.

9.      The project sought to achieve a road condition mix of 59 percent Good, 27
percent Fair and 14 percent Poor but could only undertake the following:

    Description                               Planned                Achievement
                                                (km)                     (km)
    Routine Maintenance                       34,527                     29,116
    Periodic Maintenance                        5,428                     4,006
    Rehabilitation                                264                       133


10.     On the basis of the network size of 28,630 km in 2002, satisfactory outcomes
were realized for the routine and periodic maintenance activities, representing 84 percent
and 74 percent respectively of planned activities. A marginally satisfactory outcome of
51 percent was achieved for its major rehabilitation, reconstruction and major upgrading
activities. Due to the variation in the level of achievement for activities, an overall road


                                           38

condition mix of 39 percent Good, 29 percent Fair, and 32 percent Poor. These figures
represent an improvement from the initial condition mix of 27 percent Good, 17 percent
Fair and 56 percent Poor. Meanwhile, it is also important to note that this achievement
has been determined based on the increase of the network size from 48,630km in 2002 to
a total of 62,954km in 2007.

11.     Economic evaluations undertaken with recent traffic data and construction cost
figures show the project roads to be economically feasible for the proposed
improvements. The economic rates of return (ERRs) and the net present values (NPVs)
obtained for the roads indicate that the investment costs achieved significant benefits. For
example, improvements of the trunk roads, recorded ERRs of between 24 percent and
167 percent. The differences in the corresponding net present values are also significant.
The same applies to the selected urban roads, recording ERRs of between 50 percent and
110 percent. Additionally, the feeder roads show ERRs of between 29 percent and 420
percent.

12.     The implementation of the RSDP has brought with it lessons for future
implementation of transport programs in the form of challenges. Though, efforts were
made to address some of the issues, others must be seen as challenges requiring the
needed attention so as to impact positively on subsequent programmes:

    ·   Inadequate design and short period for design review;
    ·   Contractors' workload and weakness in the classification system;
    ·   Selection of the least cost tender without adequate consideration of technical
        competence and engineer's estimate;
    ·   Under-cutting in pricing in an effort to win a job under all circumstances also
        undermined open competitive tendering;
    ·   Inadequate staff and logistics for field supervision affected monitoring and
        supervision responsibilities; and
    ·   Certification of works for payment was identified as a major source of delay as a
        process which should be completed within 3 months took 5 months to complete.

13.     On the whole, the project achieved most of its relevant development objectives,
which was to stimulate growth and contribute to poverty reduction through improved
road infrastructure. The project also achieved satisfactory development results.
Although, implementation encountered some challenges, findings from studies
undertaken provide the platform to ensure better implementation of future projects. Road
maintenance planning and funding is expected to be more sustainable. Implementation of
maintenance programmes will benefit from improved skills and knowledge as well as
general monitoring and supervision of road projects have improved. The MOT and its
Agencies were resourced but these resources have to be sustained to enable them to
effectively carry out their responsibilities and future assignments.




                                            39

Annex 6. Comments of Partners

1.      Comments received from the European Commission (EC) are:

(i) Efficiency, effectiveness of the project and lessons to be drawn:

2.      As Lead Development Partner in Ghana's Transport Sector Group, the EC very
much appreciated the quality of cooperation with the World Bank on sector dialogue,
project monitoring, and preparation of the RSDP follow up (TSDP). The RSDP provided
a coherent framework for the road sector development in Ghana. The objectives of DP's
interventions in Ghana's transport sector converged in the road sector development
program financed by a variety of donors including AfDB, AFD, DANIDA, DFID, KfW,
EC, and the Bank.

3.      Complimentarity of interventions on analytical work, policy preparation and
studies was achieved through close coordination, including sharing of draft ToR's and
joint reviewing of each other's draft reports - thus optimizing use of resources and
improving the quality of outputs.

4.      Monthly donor coordination meetings provided a good platform for sharing
information, ideas and challenges and for continuous discussion and enhancement of
policy dialogue. Joint statements were presented on behalf of DP's at Annual Transport
Sector Donor Conferences.

5.      EC also welcomes the renewed presence of permanent Bank transport sector staff
in the Ghana Country Office, increasing potential of synergies on top of the bi-annual
appraisal missions.

6.      Although, the road network size was fixed at the beginning of RSDP
implementation, including an agreed growth rate for upcoming years, to meet the planned
needs and foreseen available resources for maintenance, there was still a tendency to
increase the size of the network with poor quality and un-maintained roads (i.e. tracks),
whilst the resources for required maintenance of the increased network remained difficult
to ensure. DP's continued raising concerns of availability and access to maintenance
resources for this ever increasing road network.

7.      Policy documents on Axle load control were prepared and an action plan was put
in place, but non approval of the traffic act/regulation remains an obstacle for the
effectiveness of axle load control in Ghana. It is not clear if the RSDP target:
"compliance with axle load limitation increased by 20 percent" has been achieved.

(ii) Feedback regarding the document itself:

8.      Preparation, appraisal, and monitoring meetings of World Bank for this project
were in close coordination with other Development Partners in the Transport Sector
Group. The European Commission contribution to transport integration, public finance



                                           40

management and policy and planning capacity building in Ghana would deserve to be
explicitly mentioned.

(iii) The way forward:

9.      As a major achievement under RSDP, a comprehensive National Transport Policy
(NTP), with direct links to national development priorities, poverty alleviation and the
attainment of middle income status was prepared. It was then adopted by Cabinet in
September 2008. The NTP should form the basis of all strategic planning in the Transport
Sector in the future. The more practical applications of the policy statements and
strategies in the NTP have been formulated in the TSDP. As the successor to the RSDP, it
sets out a program of development activities for Ghana's transport sector for 2008-2012.
Looking at synergies in program development and implementation with the World Bank
and other DPs, the EC will support the TSDP through a road project in the Western
Region and preparing the feasibility of the western corridor infrastructure. Additional
support to other transport modes will also be sought via an Agreement to be concluded
with World Bank.




                                         41

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


   1. Project Appraisal Document for the Road Sector Development Project, World
       Bank ; Report No : 22233-GH, July, 2001.
   2. Country Assistance Strategy, World Bank Report No: 20185-GH, March 2000
   3. Road Sector Development Programme (2002 ­ 2008), Implementation
       Completion Report, Ministry of Transportation
   4. RSDP Implementation Review Mission, Mid-Term Review, April 2005
   5. Price Water House Coopers, Ghana Roads Concessionary Study Report (Draft
       Final), January 2006.

   6. Republic of Ghana and IDA, Development Credit Agreement, June 2001.

   7. Global Procurement Consultants Ltd, Independent Procurement Review (IPR)-
       Road Sector Development Project (Credit No. 3554GH), April 2005.

   8. Road Traffic Bill, The Road Traffic Act, 2003.

   9. RPDCU-MRT Finance, Interbank Exchange Rates (July 1985-Date)
       Cedis/Others, December 2003

   10. MoT, Strategic Plan (2000-2004), May 2000.

   11. MoT, Revised Axle Load Control Policy and Action Plan, April 2005.

   12. Ministry of Roads and Transport, Road Sub-Sector Development Program
       (RSDP)(2001-2003), June 2001.

   13. Municipal Collaborative Ltd, Economic Analysis and Impact Assessment for
       the preparation of Implementation Completion Report for the Highway Sector
       Investment Project (RSDP)(Final Report), October 2002.

   14. MoT and RSDP, The Role of Transport in Attaining Middle Income Status
       (Review Report), 2005/2006.

   15. Municipal Development Collaborative Ltd, Economic Analysis and Impact
       Assessment for the Preparation of Implementation Completion Report for the
       Highway Sector Investment Program (Draft Final Report) Annexes, May
       2002.

   16. MoT and RSDP, The Impact of Road Programme on Poverty Reduction
       (Review Report), 2004.

   17. MoT and RSDP, Mid-Term Review, April 2005.

   18. Review of Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Works, Final Draft,
       September 2006.

   19. RSDP Completion Report, Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority, 2007.



                                      42

20. RSDP Completion Report, Ghana Highway Authority, 2007.

21. RSDP Completion Report, Department of Feeder Roads, 2007.

22. RSDP Completion Report, Department of Urban Roads, 2007.

23. RSDP Completion Report, National Road Safety Commission, 2007.

24. Baseline and Monitoring of Impact of the RSDP on Poverty Reduction,
    Final Report, Vision Consult Limited, 2008.

25. Report on Training Programmes funded under the RSDP, National Road
    Safety Commission, 2008.

26. Urban Transport Planning and Traffic Management Report for the
    Greater Accra Metropolitan Area (GAMA), Sekondi-Takoradi, Cape Coast
    and Koforidua, Draft Final Report, DHV, 2005.

27. Institutional Study of the Transport Sector, Draft Final Report, WSP
    International in association with Crown Agents, UK., 2006.

28. Evaluation of the Management and Financing Arrangements for Road
    Maintenance, MoT and DANIDA, 2003.

29. Road and Transportation Engineering (RTEP) Postgraduate Training
    Program Report, University of Birmingham, 2008.




                                     43

                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAURITANIA
                                                                                G H A N A
                         ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                                      M A L I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NIGER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BURKINA FASO
                               N13         NATIONAL ROADS                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                Area of map
                               IR10        INTER-REGIONAL ROADS                                            REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS                                                                            GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BENIN
                                           REGIONAL ROADS                                                  DISTRICT AND SUB-DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                                                      NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOGO
                                07         ROAD SECTION IDENTIFICATION                                     OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C Ô T E           GHANA
                                           RAILROADS                                                       REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                            D ' I V O I R E
                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIBERIA
                                           PORTS                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                            Accra


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G u l f o f G u i n e a


                                                                                                                                          Red                        White
                       3°                                                     2°                                                   1°          Volta             Volta                      0°                                                           1°

                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                B U R K I N A                        F A S O                                                                     Kulungugu
                                                                                                                                                                  Mogonori
                                                                                                                                                                                 N2
                                                                                                                                                                                     N11
                                                                  01                                                                                                                        01
         11°                                                                                                                                                              Bawku
                                                                                                                        13                                                           10    Kamsorio
                                Hamale         Gbal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11°
                                                         Gwallu          N16                                                 Paga                                                N2
                                                                              Tumu        Pina      Kayoro             N10                         Bongo        02   Zebilla
                              N12    12                                                                      Navrongo                   12                    N11
                                                                                             N13                               N10                                     Binaba
                                            03                   N13      02                                                                        Zuarungu
                            03                            Jeffisi                         01                          Bolgatanga
                                                                                                   Sandema                                                   Datoko
                   Lawra              N13                                                                                                                                     REGION
                            N13                  Hian                                                                                              Tongo                            Nakpanduri
                                             N18                                                                                 Naga
                         Jirapa          02                                                          Sisili                                               EAST Gambaga
                                                                                                              IR10
                                                                                                                                                                                        IR11
                                       11     Sabuli                                                              UPPER
                                                       UPPER WEST                                                                                   11
                                                                                                            02                                                                            01
                                 N12                                                                             Fumbisi                        N10
                                                                                                                                                                 IR11
                                    Nadawli                     REGION                                                        Walewale                                        Gbangdaa            IR11

                                                                                                                           04                                                                   01                                                           B E N I N
                                              N18                                                    05                                                           02
                                                                                                                      IR11                  IR11                                      N2                         Yawgu
                                         N12
                                   10                                                              IR11
                                                  01                                                                               03                                               09
                                                                                                                IR10                               Nasia                                 Wenchiki           N14 01
                                                                                Felin                                                        10
                                     07                                                                               02                                                                     Cherepon
                         Dorimon               Wa                                                     Kulpawn                                   N10
                                     IR11                                                       Mankarigu                          White
                                                                                                                                       Janga
         10°                                                       IR11                                                                                                                          N14                                                                                 10°
                                                                                06
                                                Tanina          Bulenga                                                                         Diari        Karaga               Gushiegu              01

                                    Wechiau                                                                                             Volta      10

                                                                                                                                              N10                                    N2
                                                                                                                                                         Yepalsi
                                                                                                                                                                                        09
                                                                                                                      Nawuni                                                                    Saboba
                                                                                                                                                  Savelugu
                                              N12 09

                                                                                                                                                                  Tijo
                                                  Tuna                                                                                                                                  N2
                                                                                                                               Tolon                                                         08
                                                                                                                                                                                            Yendi
                                                                                             01     IR10                                         Tamale
                                                                                                                   Nyankpala                                                 Sambu
                                                  Sawla                                                                                                                                                          Zabzugu
                                                                 Larabanga                     NORTHERN                                                      REGION
                                                                                                                                   N10                 N9
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sabari
                                    Chache                       N7                                                                                                                         N2
                                                                                                      Busunu                      09                 01       Gbung
                                                                         02                                                                                                              07
                                                                                                        N7                                                                                           Oti
                                                Bole                    Damongo                                                                                                  Daka
                                                                                                    01           Fufulsu
                                                                                           Sorri                                                                                                 Juo          Nakpali
         9°                                         Seripe                                                           Mankpan                                                                                                                                                          9°
                                                                                                                                                                      Wangasi-Turu
                                                                                                                                                                                        N2      Bimbila
                                                         08                                                                                                       IR4
                                                     N12                                                                                                     06                        06                     Woribogu
                                            Black                                                                           Mpana                                                Nakpayili
                 CÔTE
                                                 Volta                                                                                                                                                       06

             D´IVOIRE                                                                                                                                  Salaga
                                                                                                  Gbulumpe                                                                     Kimabui                    N2                                        T O G O
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jombo
                                                                                 Chibrungo                                                                     IR4
                                                                                                N10                                                                                         Kpandae
                                                                                                                                                                     05
                                                                    Teselima                        08                                                                                                     Nkwanta
                                                      Bui                                                                                                    Makongo
                                                                                                                                                                                       Zongo-Markyeri
                                                                             New Longoro                                                                    Yeji

                                                                IR9            IR9    03    Kintampo                                            IR4
                                         IR9             04                                                                        01                                                Buafri                 Brewaniase
                                                                                                               02                                                                            Dambai
          8°                                   BRONG-AHAFO                                              IR9                  IR9                  03              Ohiamankyene                                                   05                                                   8°
                                            04                       N12                                                Abease                                                                                                       N2

                                         Nsawkaw        R E G I O N                     Jema                                           IR4                                                                                       Dodo

                                                                           07                                                                                 Kwadwokurom                  Kete-Krachi               REGION
                                                                                         07                                                   03
                                 05                                    Wenchi       N10                               Atebubu                                                                                                         Ahamasu
                            IR9                                                                                                  Baantama                  Kwame Danso                   LakeAsukawkaw
                               New Drobo                                     09  Tuobodum                          Pru
                                                                         IR7            08                                IR4

                               Kotuo          Namasua           Techiman           IR7      Nkoranza
                                                                                                                            02               Sene                                            Volta        Kadjebi

                          Berekum                         06 N12
                                                  08                                              IR7
                                                                                                                 Hiawoanwu                                                                                Jasikan
                              09              N6
                                   N6                  Sunyani
                                                                                                      07       Ejura                                                                                                       AT
                                                                                                                              IR7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kute
                          10   Akontaanim                                                                                            06                                                                              Baaglo
                       N6 Dormaa-AhenkroN1205             N6      Teekyere                                      Afram
                                                                                      N10                  IR4                                                                                                                   N2
                             IR8                                                     06                                                                                                                                             04
                                                                07                        Abofoo                 02                                                           IR7
                            05       Gambia No.2                            Bekyem                                                                                                  05                                          Hohoe
           Kwadwonkromkurom               Kenyasi                                                           Mampong                                              Obosum                        04
                                                                                                                                                                                          IR7                 02             VOL Golokuati
          7°                                No.1                              ASHANTI                         REGION                                               Odonkawkrom                                 IR7
                       Kwakwanya                                  Tepa                                                                                                                         Kpandu                             IR7                                                 7°
                                                                                N6  Ofinso              Agona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 01
                          Siekabenkuram                                                                                                                                                                          Dayi
                                                                             06            Barekese                                                       EASTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kpedze
               Yamatwa           04           Goaso             Mankranso                                    Effiduase Agogo
                                                                                            N10    IR4
                                                                                         05                                                                                                                                           Shia
                             N12                                                                    01
                                              IR8                                   Kumasi               Ejisu
                                                                                                                                Aduamoa                     Kwahu Tafo                                  Anfoeta
                   New-Debiso               04                              Nkawie                          N6     05
                                                     Nyinahin                             04                               Juaso             Obo                                                            N2                     Ho
                                Adwumadiem                                                                                                 N5                    02   IR3                                03
                                                                                  Manso     N10          Konongo                                        Mpraeso
                                                                                                                                                            R E G I O N                      Boso
                 03 IR5                                   01    IR5                                                                          04    IR3
                                         02  IR5                                                                                                                                   Dominase                                        Kpetoe
                  Ateso                                                                                                                  Amua                                                               N5
                               Benchema                              Ofin         Nkwanta               Kuntanase                                     03
                                                                                                                          Obogu04               IR3
                                                                                                                                                            N6                   IR3  Asesewa               01   Abutia-
                                           Buaka        Bibiani                                                     IR2                       Akoasi            Begoro            02
                Krokosue                                                                           Bekwai                                                                                                            Kloe
                                                       IR8                                                                          IR3
                             Juabeso                      Sefwi Anhwiaso                                      Ntronan                        05                      03
                                                                                            N10
                                                     03                                                                      IR3                                         Sekasua     IR3            N2
                                                                                          03                                       Abirem
                 Amoya                                    Awaaso                                          Bodwesango                                                                      01   02
                                      Shi                                                                                     05
                                                                                    Obuasi                                                                                 Oterkpolu
                                                                                               IR3                              Ajuafo                  Birim                                    Senchi                                       Wute
                           N12  Bodi          Sefwi               Diaso                                       IR3                                                 Kibi         04
                    Dadeeso                                                                    07                                                                                      N3
                                              Bekwai                                                  N8   06  Akokoaso                                                    N4     N3         Odumasi Krobo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         01
                              03                                                        N10
                                                                      IR8       01  02           02                                Kade                        Koforidua            02       Somanya                             Adidome        Akatsi
                          Akwantonbra                 Jabo                                                 New Adubiase                                                                                                                                   N1
                                                                   02                        Adansi                                                                                     01
                                                                                                                                                           Suhum                                 01                                                                Aflao
                                                                                                                                                                                    03                                                     N1  02   Anyako
          6°           WESTERNDwokwaa                                                      Akrofuom                        IR2   03                                             N4            N2                                                                Denu
                                                                                 IR8                             Edubia                                                                                   Battor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6°
                                                                                                                                                                  02                     Akropong                                    Sogakofe
                                                                                                                                                                        N6
                        R E G I O N                                          Dunkwa                  Asaman          Akim           Oda                     Asamankese                     G R E AT E R
                                                                                                                                                                                01  N4                                                                     Keta
                                                  Asankranguaa                                                                     Achiasi           02                                  Dodowa           N1  03
                                                                                          01                       Swedru
                             Enchi                                                                                                                            Adaiso                  02                                                  Anyanui
                                                                     IR6                                                                          IR2                        IR1           N2A C C RAkplabanya
                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                               02        Atobiase       N10        Pra    Foso                                                02       IR1
                                                                                                                                   Akoroso                                  Nsawam
                                                                                                                                                                           N6    N4      01                                            Ada
                             N12                  Ataase                                   Agyempama
                                                                                                                                                 01         Amasaman          01    01
                                                                                                                                                      IR2                              N1         Prampram
                                  02                                                                                N8                                       IR1
                                       no                                                                                 01       Esikuma                                05
                                           Samreboe                              Insu                Twifo Praso                                             Kwanyaku                 04     Tema
                                     Ta                     Bogoso                                   CENTRAL                                                 03          N1        ACCRA
                                  Huitimbo                                                                                                                                    06
                                                      Prestea                                                        Tumfokuro                           Swedru
                                                                       01                                                                            IR2
                                                                                                      R E G I O N
                                                                                            N10                                                                       Bortianor
                                 N12                                              Huni                                                           01               07
                                                                           IR6                                                                               N1
                                                                                                                                            Ajumaku
                                    01               Bandae                      Valley     Esaaman                                                                                                                                      This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                     01   Dunkwa                                     Senya Bereku
                                Elubo                                          Tarkwa                                                                                                                                                    Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                          01                           N8                                    Winneba
                                                                                                               Dwokwa                         N1       Apam                                                                              The boundaries, colors,denominations
                                 N1      12                       Nsuta                 Heman            Abrem                         08      Akra                                                                                      and any other information shown on

                                 Alenda                                            Daboasi                                Saltpond                                                                                                       this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                         Ankobra                                        09
                                                                   IR6     01
                                                                                                     N1                                                                                                                                  The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                  Ayiem                  10                         Cape Coast
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on the legalstatus of any territory,or
         5° Jewi Whorf   Half Assini                                                        N1             Elmina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5°
                                                            Apataim                                                                                                                                                                      any endorsement or acceptance of
                                     Eikwe                                                  Sekondi-Takoradi                                      G u l f                o f        G u i n e a
                                                                 N1                                                                                                                                                                      such boundaries.

                                                           Axim         11    Agona Takoradi
                                                                             Junction                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD
JUNE                                                  Prince´s                                                                                                                                0                                  50                 100                    150
                                                        Town                Akwidaa                                                                                                                                                                                                                31121
    2001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS
                      3°                                                    2°                                                    1°                                                        0°                                                           1°

