Page  1
 
 
MOZAMBIQUE          
28773
 
 
FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT 
 
 
 
Project Name
 
 
 
Mozambique – First Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
 
Region 
  Africa 
 
Sector
 
   Sector 
Board: 
Poverty 
Reduction 
                                                 
Project ID 
 
 
P075805
 
 
Country Name 
 
Republic of Mozambique 
 
Implementing
  
 
Ministry of Planning and Finance  
Agency 
  
            Maputo, Mozambique 
 
Environmental Category
 C  
 
Date of PID
 
  April 
21, 
2004 
 
 
Appraisal Date
   
April 5, 2004 
 
Projected Board Date
 
July 1, 2004 
 
 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Mozambique has made considerable progress since the end of the conflict in 1992, maintaining 8% average 
annual growth and successfully fighting poverty, as demonstrated by the 15 percentage points reduction in 
poverty, from 69% in 1997 to 54.5% in 2003.  Nevertheless, Mozambique remains one of the poorest 
countries in the world, with a GNP per capita of $210 and 70% of the population still living in rural areas.  
The Bank has been supporting Mozambique fight poverty and ensure long term sustainable development 
since 1984, aligning the objectives of its program in support of the Government’s Action Plan for the 
Reduction of Absolute Poverty (PARPA) of 2001.  The PARPA was updated through a Progress Report in 
March 2003 and a matrix of priority actions and indicators aligned with the budget planning and execution 
process, the Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), in April 2004.  Thro
ugh the PRSC program, the 
Bank intends to support the Group of 14 Donors (G14) providing budget support against progress in 
implementing actions and indicators identified in the PAF and agreed with all development partners.  The 
PAF matrix provides a framework for policy dialogue and decisions linked to progress in PARPA 
implementation, and the PRSC is fully aligned with the PAF matrix. 
 
Project Objective 
 
The proposed PRSC1 is the first of a program of four single-tranche operations   
Page  2
 
 
aiming to contribute to poverty reduction in Mozambique and ultimately to progress towards achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals by supporting high growth and improved service delivery.  The PRSC 
program will achieve this objective by supporting implementation of the PARPA, and in particular by 
supporting the completion of specific actions identified in the Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), 
monitored on an annual basis.  In particular, the Bank will use the PRSC instrument to reinforce its support 
to the Government’s reform agenda by: (i) building public sector capacity to maintain macroeconomic 
stability and strengthen public financial management; (ii) improving the investment climate through 
strengthening the financial sector, easing constraints to the regulatory environment, and expanding 
infrastructure services; and (iii) expanding the delivery of good quality health, education and water supply 
services.  The first PRSC operation will focus specifically on policies and reforms aiming to improve the 
living conditions of the population by promoting growth and employment, accelerating human resource 
development, and strengthening governance and public sector management.  PRSC1 will also support the 
Government maintain macroeconomic stability by helping to close the external financing gap as well as to 
generate the domestic funds required to execute the policies and programs included in the PARPA.   
 
Project Design 
 
PRSC1 will address the policy dialogue initially on cross-cutting, fiduciary issues 
including governance and public financial management, supporting specific cross-
sectoral actions to strengthen public sector performance and enhance efficiency and 
effectiveness in the use of public resources.  Key areas of focus of PRSC1 will include 
strengthening financial management through the implementation of an integrated public 
financial management reform program (SISTAFE), strengthening the national audit 
office, implementing pay reform coupled with improved performance management in the 
public sector, procurement reform, the implementation of anti-corruption strategies, and 
enhanced efficiency in the use of development assistance.  In order to ensure timely and 
effective assessment of progress made in implementing the reforms under PRSC1, the 
program will include an M&E system to monitor compliance with the prior actions and 
triggers, with the underlying objective to strengthen the Government’s poverty 
monitoring system, including the Poverty Observatory and the PAF.  The information 
derived from the M&E system will permit an assessment of the impact and results of 
PRSC-supported activities, and progress to subsequent PRSC operations will be 
contingent on completion of prior actions and triggers.
   
 
 
 
 
Project Selectivity and Sequencing 
 
While continuing to finance investment lending through the existing portfolio of programs and the new 
lending operations, the four one-year PRSC operations will aim at aligning the policy agenda supported by 
the Bank with national policy priorities in the PARPA.  An increasing portion of the Bank’s financial 
support to Mozambique would consequently be channeled through the PRSC program over the next four 
years.  In particular, the financing needs and levels will be based on the medium-term financing plan 
contained in the Government’s MTFF.  The phasing of the PRSC program of activities from FY04 to FY07 
will be based upon satisfactory completion of the specific prior actions.  Prior actions are defined as upfront 
conditions to move to PRSC2, PRSC3, and PRSC4 respectively, and they are defined in the PRSC Policy 
Matrix among the actions of the PAF.  These prior actions will focus on ensuring that spending allocations 
are in line with agreed priorities, that the underlying spending programs are effective, and that service 
delivery agencies are held accountable for results through a strong M&E system.  They will also focus on 
the completion of reforms that promote pro-poor growth.  The program of activities under PRSC1 will start 
with a focus on cross-sectoral fiduciary reforms to then expand to embrace the key sector areas of the 
Page  3
 
 
PARPA under the subsequent PRSC operations.  It is envisaged that PRSC2 would address more 
specifically the constraints to the investment climate and include sectoral support in health and agriculture.  
The specific sectoral components of PRSC3 will be defined during appraisal of PRSC2, however it is 
expected that the third operation will continue to support the health and agriculture sectors and also 
embrace education, while PRSC4 will also include support to rural water supply.  These measures will have 
a direct impact on poverty reduction, as they will enhance public sector capacity to implement poverty 
reduction programs in the priority sectors and generate additional funds for poverty reduction by reducing 
leakages in the form of low allocative or operational efficiency of public expenditures.   
 
 
Project Environmental Aspects 
 
Based on the objectives and sectoral coverage of PRSC1, the operation is being prepared as a Sectoral 
Adjustment Credit (SAC), based on the Interim Guidelines for PRSCs of May 2001.  The proposed Credit 
has been classified as category C, in accordance with Operational Directive 8.60 on Adjustment Lending 
and Operational Policy 4.01 on safeguard policies.  Based  on this classification, the PRSC1 will not 
require a formal environmental impact assessment (EIA).  The Government is nonetheless planning to 
undertake a formal Environmental Impact Assessment in consideration of the linkages between the 
environment and poverty reduction to identify in particular the impact of macroeconomic and policy 
reforms on the environment. 
 
Project Benefits and Risks 
 
The PRSC1 and the subsequent operations will contribute to accelerating progress towards the MDGs as a 
result of higher growth and improved service delivery.  The program will also help the Government to 
maintain macroeconomic stability by helping to close the external financing gap as well as to generate the 
domestic funds required to execute the policies and programs included in the PARPA. 
 
Project Implementation 
 
The PRSC1 will be supervised by the Ministry of Planning and Finance.  Moreover, coordination and 
monitoring will be managed as part of the overall Government’s PAF process in coordination with other 
donors providing budget support.       
 
