Report No. 744a-LBR                                                               FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Lofa County Agricultural Development Project
Liberia
June 27, 1975
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit       United States Dollar
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)         =  0.405 Hectare (ha)
1 mile              -   1.61 Kilometer (km)
I square mile       =   64O ac = 259 ha
1 ton               =   2,240 pound (lb) = 1,016 kilogram (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
AETC        =    Agricultural Extension Training Center
AGRIMECO    =    Agricultural Mechanization and Land Development Company
AHT         =    Agrar und Hydrotechnik
CAES        =    Central Agricultural Experiment Station
ERR         =    Economic Rate of Return
FTC         =    Farmer Training Centre
GDP         =    Gross Domestic Product
GNP         =    Gross National Product
GOL              Government of Liberia
LBA         =    Licensed Buying Agents
LBDI        =    Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
LISCO            Liberian Iron and Steel Corporation
LPMC             Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation
MA          =    Ministry of Agriculture
MPW         =    Ministry of Public Works
PMU         =    Project Management Unit
PSC         =    Project Steering Committee
RDA         =    Rural Development Authority
UL          =    University of Liberia
UNDP        =    United Nations Development Program
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WARDA       =    West Africa Rice Development Association
WHO              World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -   December 31



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............      ........................  i - iv
I. INTRODUCTION ........   1
II. BACKGROUND                    ....   1
A.  General .  ................ .....................
B.  Agricultural Sector .............                      2
C. Agricultural Strategy              .        .           3
D.  Agricultural Institutions  .        ..................  4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .................................         6
General      ................................              6
Water       ................................               6
Local Administration .............................         6
Mineral Resources  ...............................         7
Communications ......................                      7
General Infrastructure ..................                  7
Farming Systems ......................                     7
Land Tenure         .......................                8
IV.   THE PROJECT ........      ..............................   8
A.  General Description .....       .....................  8
B.   Detailed Features ......    ...................       9
-  Farm Development ..................                9
-  Crop Development .       ........................  10
-  Seed Multiplication and Seedling Nurseries        11
-  Supply of Inputs ...... ...................      11
-  Staffing ..     ...............................   11
-  Village Wells ............................        12
-  Support Services .........................       12
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
A. Arben, M. Burer, M. 0. Farruk, I. Peprah, A. Mercer (IDA), C. Tagoe (West
Africa Rice Development Association) and E. Schroepfer (USAID Consultant).



TABL' OF CONTENTS (Continued)
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS .... ......             13
A.   Project Costs ...............................             13
B.   Proposed Financing  ..........................            14
C.   Procurement .................................             17
D.   Disbursement ................................             17
E.   Budgetary Control, Funding Procedures,
Accounts and Audit ........................            19
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT.            ......................  20
A.   Institutions, Staffing and Project
Implementation .............................           20
B.   Staff, Cooperative and Farmer Training   ......           23
C.   Farm Inputs, Procurement Distribution
and Credit Arrangements .....         ..............   24
D.   Processing and Storage ......................             27
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, FARM INCOME
AND RECOVERY OF COST .............................             27
A.   Production ...................................            27
B.   Marketing and Prices ........................             29
C.   Farmer Benefits .............................             32
D.   Financial Implications to Government ........             33
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................              34
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER ....         .........    36
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture
Table      1:   Rainfall Statistics
Table      2:   Estimated Crop Yields
Table      3:   Crops Outputs
Table      4:   Cost of Cocoa Seedlings
Table      5:   Cost of Coffee Seedlings
Table      6:   Cultivation Costs (1 ha) - Upland Rice - Improved
Table      7:   "                            - Swamp Rice  - Improved
Table      8:   "                                     It    - New
Table      9:                                - Coffee       - Rehabilitated
Table    10:   "  I"                                        - New
Table    11:           "                     - Cocoa        - Rehabilitated
Table    12:   "                                            - New
Table    13:   Fertilizer Costs
Table    14:   Size of Farm and Cropping Pattern in the Project Area
Table    15:   Holding size and Labor Units per Holding
Table    16:   Labor Requirements for Project Crops



ANNEXES (Continued)
2.   Infrastructure in the Project Area
3.   Land Tenure
Table     1:   Land Tenure Situation
4.   Farm Incomes
Table     1:   Changes in Average Farm Income in the Project Area
Table      2:   Farm Budget and Cash Flow - Upland Rice - Improved
Table      3:   "                           - Swamp Rice  - New
Table     4:   "                               I    It    - Improved
Table     5:            "                   - Cocoa        - New
Table     6:   "                                           - Rehabilitated
Table     7:            "                   - Coffee       - New
Table     8:   "                                           - Rehabilitated
5.   Organization and Management
Table      1:   Staffing Requirements
Organization Chart - Lofa County Agricultural Development Project (WB9718R)
6.   Cooperatives
7.   Farm Inputs and Credit
Table     1:   Illustrative Revolving Credit Fund
8.   Marketing, Markets and Prices
Table     1:   LPMC Statement of Income 1971-1974
Table     2:   LPMC Produce Purchases (tonnages) 1968-1974
Table     3:   LPMC Farmer Prices 1967-1975
Table     4:   LPMC Farmer and Export Prices 1966-1974
Table     5:   LPMC Projected Farmer and Export Prices
9.   Financial Analyses
Table     1:   Project Financing
Table     2:   Project Cost   -    Summary
Table     3:   "           "    -    Building and Construction Materials
Table     4:   "                -    Vehicles
Table      5:                   -    Equipment
Table      6:   "               -    Salaries and Wages
Table     7:   "                -    Vehicle Operating
Table     8:   "           "         General Operating
Table     9:   Illustrative Cash Flow to Goverrnent
Table    10:   Project Costs - Farm Inputs
Table    11:  IDA Credit Disbursement Schedule
MAPS      IBRD 11517R
IBRD 11518R






LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Liberia (GOL) requested IDA and USAID financial
assistance for an agricultural development project in Lofa County. The pro-
ject was identified by IDA 1/ and prepared by German consultants, Agrar und
Hydro-technik under the Liberian Agriculture Development Technical Assistance
Project (306-LBR). This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission that visited Liberia in January 1975.
ii.       The Liberian economy is largely dependent on mining, timber, and
rubber, which are in turn dominated by foreign concessions. GOL wishes to
expand its economic base and now seeks to assist small farmers to reduce
imports and to diversify and expand agricultural exports of coffee, cocoa,
and non-concession rubber, and to increase rural incomes. This project would
(a) assist 8,000 farmers to improve and/or develop 5,600 ha upland rice,
1,900 ha rainfed swamp and irrigated rice, 2,800 ha coffee and 2,300 ha
cocoa; (b) strengthen agricultural support services; (c) establish farm input
systems through existing cooperatives; (d) strengthen institutional framework
for agricultural development; and (e) improve existing infrastructure.
iii.      This report appraises the Lofa County Agricultural Development
Project which would introduce improved cultivation methods and farm inputs
through a complete agricultural service package to improve yields and quality
of upland rice, swamp rice, coffee and cocoa grown by small farmers. Where
sufficient water is available, double crop irrigated rice would be introduced.
Farm credit would be provided for inputs comprising: tools and sprayers, seeds
and seedlings, fertilizers and agricultural chemicals and hired labor for
swamp development. Other components of the project would be construction of
village wells, expansion of agricultural and cooperative extension services
beyond project needs, marketing assistance, seed multiplication facilities,
seedling nurseries, staff, cooperative and farmer training facilities,
strengthening Ministry of Agriculture's capability for planning and initiating
agricultural development, banking facilities, health monitoring facilities,
and road improvements. Project development would be over a five-year period.
iv.       A total of 8,000 farm families would be involved with average
holdings of less than 4 ha. As land availability is not a constraint to
project development, farmers would retain their existing holdings under the
traditional land tenure system which is conmon to much of West Africa and
provides special recognition of swamp and tree crop development. Swamp rice
cultivation would be encouraged in the present undeveloped swamps through
1/   Appraisal report PA-120a, March 7, 1972 (Appraisal of an Agricultural
Development and Technical Assistance Project, Liberia).



- li -
improved drainage and water control to relieve dependenice on the traditional
shifting cultivation of uplands.  Coffee and cocoa development would be
restricted to suitable soils. Project would provide development and seasonal
credit up to a maximum of US$1,000 per farmaer at any one time; actual limit to
be decided by Project Management dependent on crop mix, soil suitability and
farmer capability.
v.        Incremental production of 7,300 tons milled rice would reduce rice
imports. Incremental production of 2,500 tons coffee and 1,600 tons cocoa are
less than 0.05 percent and 0.2 percent respectively of world production and
would be readily exported at remunerative prices. The international coffee
and cocoa organizations have raised no objections to the project coffee and
cocoa components.
vi.       Project would be carried out by a Project Management Unit (Pmu)
responsible to the Minister of Agriculture through a ministerial Project
Steering Committee (PSC). An ongoing IDA-financed study for the reorganiza-
tion of the Ministry of Agriculture is expected to be completed by the end
of 1975; part of which will cover the Ministry's role in implementing this
and future development projects. Should GOL be unable to strengthen the
Ministry's capability to undertake project implementation, then GOL would
discuss the establishment of a Special Development Authority for project
implementation which would be ab:Le to retain and concentrate scarce and
costly resources. This project provides for substantial recruitment and
training of Liberians, primarily in agricultural development in excess of
project needs and should be regarded as technical assistance in preparation
for subsequent agricultural development projects. Additionally, as competent
and qualified Liberians are in short supply, project provides for recruitment
of up to ten internationally recruited staff to fill senior management posi-
tions and provide practical training. In the event that qualified Liberians
are not available, promising Liberians will be recruited as counterparts,
who will be trained by the internationally recruited staff within an agreed
timetable to acceptable standards. Early appointment of project manager,
training and development controller, and agriculture manager would be covered
by retroactive financing of US$100,000. To encourage local acceptance and
project liaison, a Project Advisory Committee (PAC) would be formed consist-
ing of local representatives and PMU staff.
vii.      Cost of project is estimated at US$17 million, net of all identifi-
able taxes and duties, including US$5 million for physical and price contin-
gencies, during the five-year development period 1976-1980. Project infra-
structure accounts for 14 percent of base costs, incremental farm inputs 31
percent, farmer support services 53 percent, and technical assistance 2 percent,
whilst physical contingencies total US$0.6 million (5 percent of base costs),
and expected price increases amount to US$4.4 million (35 percent). Foreign
exchange costs are estimated at US$7.8 million (46 percent of total project
costs) and would be shared between IDA and USAID, US$4.8/3.0 million respec-
tively (61 and 39 percent of foreign exchange costs). The proposed IDA Credit
of US$6.0 million (35 percent of total project costs) would cover US$4.8



- iii -
million foreign exchange costs and US$1.2 million local costs (28 percent and
7 percent respectively of total project costs). The proposed USAID Loan of
US$5.0 million (30 percent of total project costs) would cover US$3.0 million
of foreign exchange (18 percent) and US$2.0 million of local costs (12 percent).
The IDA credit would be on standard terms and the USAID loan would be for 40
years, including 10 years grace, repayable in 30 equal installments with
interest of 2 percent during grace period and 3 percent thereafter. GOL
would contribute US$6.0 million covering local farm inputs and local staff
and operating costs.
viii.     Procurement of vehicles and equipment. valued at more than US$25,000
and estimated to have a total value of US$0.9 million to be financed by IDA
would be through international competitive bidding (ICB). Local manufactured
goods would be allowed a 15 percent preference. Items between US$5,000 and
US$25,000 would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to IDA, for which an overall limit of US$0.3 million would apply.
Reimbursement of internationally recruited staff costs of US$1.4 million
would be against ID)A approved contracts. Reimbursement of vehicle running
costs, house and office rents, PMU adlministration expenses totalling US$2.1
million would be against certified documentation of IDA approved local pro-
cedures. The USAID loan would be disbursed direct under USAID procedures
against the costs of (a) imported farm inputs, and hired labor for swamp
development; (b) vehicles, equipment, internationally recruited and local
staff of the PMU cooperative/credit division, and the schistosomiasis sur-
veillance unit, including drugs, supplies and consultants services; and
(c) construction of a dormitory including equipment.
ix.       The IDA credit would be disbursed over a five-year period against
100 percent of foreign exchange or 80 percent of local expenditures for
vehicles and equipment, internationally recruited staff, LBDI support, and
consultant services; and 90 percent of expenditures on buildings and construc-
tion materials, general operating and service costs to cover 35 percent of
project costs. The USAID loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of total
expenditures for imported inputs, and hired labor for swamp development; vehi-
cles and equipment, and staff costs of the PMU cooperative/credit division, and
the sciiistosomiasis surveillance unit (including operating costs), and construc-
tion and equipment of a dormitory block to cover 30 percent of project costs.
x.        At project maturity in 1987, incremental production would amount to
7,300 tons milled rice, 2,500 tons coffee, and 1,600 tons cocoa with total
foreign exchange benefits at 1985 prices in 1975 dollars of US$9.3 million
based on rice import substitution and coffee and cocoa export parity. Rice
incremental production is equivalent to 20 percent of forecasted 1980 rice
imports, wlhile coffee and cocoa production represents an increase over 1973/74
exports of 67 and 48 percent respectively. At maturity, average per capita
income would have risen from US$63 to UISS182.
xi.       On the basis of cost estimates, yields, and prices developed in
appraisal and assuming a 30-year project life, the economic rate of return
would be 25.9 percent.



- iv -
xii.      On the basis of the assurances and conditions set out in Chapter IX,
the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6 million in conjunction with
a USAID loan of US$5 million.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Liberia (GOL) has requested an IDA Credit of
US$6 million and a USAID loan of US$5 million to assist in financing agricul-
tural development in Lofa County, the first agricultural investment project
undertaken by the Bank Group in Liberia. This report appraises a project
costing US$17 million which would benefit some 8,000 farm families by:
improving upland rice cultivation; rehabilitating rice swamps, coffee and
cocoa farms; developing additional swamps for rice cultivation; and developing
new coffee and cocoa farms. Additionally, the project provides for strength-
ening the Ministry of Agriculture, and for infrastructure improvements
including water supplies, disease control, cooperative development, banking,
and roads.
1.02      The project was identified by IDA 1/ and was prepared by German
Consultants, Agrar und Hydrotechnik (AHT), financed under the Liberia Agri-
cultural Development and Technical Assistance Project (306-LBR).
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission in
January 1975, consisting of Messrs. A. Arben, M. Burer, M.O. Farruk, I. Peprah,
A. Mercer (IDA), C. Tagoe (West Africa Rice Development Association) and E.
Schroepfer (USAID Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Liberia has an area of about 110,940 km  and a population of 1.5
million, growing at 2.8 percent per annum. Estimated GNP in 1972 was US$355
million or US$250 per capita (with income from concessions excluded per capita
income decreases by 50 percent to US$120). Income distribution is highly
skewed: 75 percent of the total population engaged in subsistence farming
earns only US$70 per capita compared to US$150 by urban wage earners while
only 4 percent of the population commands 60 percent of the national income,
averaging about US$3,300 per capita. Mining and agriculture account for 30
percent and 21 percent respectively of GDP which has grown at 5.2 percent
annually in recent years. Foreign concessions (rubber, timber and mining)
dominate the economy by providing 30 percent of total public sector revenues,
and 90 percent of export earnings, of which 30 percent is repatriated as
profits, interest and salaries. The fiscal system is unsophisticated, lacks
discipline, and notwithstanding the strong trade surpluses the country has a
chronic balance of payments deficit on current accounts due to repatriation
of investment income of foreign concession-ires.
1/   Appraisal report PA-120a, March 7, 1972.  (Appraisal of an Agricultural
Development and Technical Assistance Project, Liberia.)



- 2 -
B. Agricultural Sector
2.02      Liberia has a gently rolling coastal topography, which becomes more
rugged inland. The climate is tropical, annual rainfall ranging from 4,300
mm at the coast to 1,800 mm inland. Most rain falls between April and
November. Liberia is well suited ecologically for the competitive cultiva-
tion of many of the tropical tree crops, in particular rubber, cocoa and
robusta coffee; although oil palm grows wild and is also a planted crop,
yield potential, as in West Africa in general, is much lower than in the
Far East. Rice, which is the principal food crop, and other food crops are
produced mostly in small farms by a traditional system of shifting cultiva-
tion under which soil fertility can be maintained only through a long period
of bush fallow. however, valley bottoms and swamps are fertile, and with
water control and fertilizers, can be continuously cultivated in rice. Govern-
ment is concentrating on programs for developing such areas and a principal
component of the project appraised in this report would be directed to
engineering the development of swamps for rice growing.
2.03      Agricultural output totalled US$95 million in 1972 of which US$60
million originated in the monetized sector composed of rubber, coffee, cocoa,
palm products and other export crops, and US$35 million in the subsistence
sector. Rubber alone accounts for about US$25 million in the monetized
sector. The structure of the agricultural sector is characterized by (a)
foreign concessions, (b) Liberian owned commercial farms, and (c) small
traditional farms that comprise more than 90 percent of agricultural holdings
in Liberia. Foreign concessions are limited principally to large rubber
plantations and timber exploitation, the basic features of these enterprises
being highly trained expatriate managerial and technical staff, extensive
capital investment, large scale itodern technology and high levels of effi-
ciency. The Liberian-owned commercial farms primarily produce rubber but they
are increasingly expanding into poultry, livestock, coffee, cocoa, oil palm
and some rice and vegetables. They employ moderately capital intensive
technology, and have relatively easy access to capital and other resources,
often against the security of their owned interests in other sectors. Most
owners are absentee and management is poor, except in cases where the farm is
large enough to support an experienced professional manager. The traditional
sector is largely outside the monetized economy, is located in areas with
minimal infrastructure, and is composed of farms where less than 4 ha is culti-
vated each year. There is little or no adoption of modern innovation, and
the sector primarily produces rice, cassava, yams, and other subsistence
crops along with some coffee, cocoa, oil palm and sugar cane that are grown
as cash crops. Farms in the project area, see Chapter III, are largely of
this type although due to relatively good communications, they are more
commercially oriented than the mctjority of farms in the traditional sector.
2.04      Government policy in the past has been to develop agriculture through
permitting foreign enterprises to establish concessions under very attractive
conditions for land acquisition and favorable tax structures. In turn, through
the demonstration effect of the concessions, Liberian enterprises have moved



into agriculture generally as a secondary business interest. This spontaneous
development has been mostly without Government assistance, and the Liberian
commercial farmers have relied on the concessions for technical support, both
in terms of advice and inputs such as improved planting material. A small
service industry has developed in support of these commercial farmers, as have
institutions such as an association of rubber producers.
2.05      The great bulk of farmers, over 90 percent, are in the traditional
sector where they are only now beginning to receive direct help from Govern-
ment, and this only on a very limited scale.  Equally, the traditional farms
have no commercial support except a very small amount provided in some areas
by the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC).
2.06      In short, agricultural development in Liberia until very recently
has occurred with a minimum of Governmental intervention in either the positive
or negative sense. Thus, while Government has given very little assistance to
the sector in terms of extension and other support services and input sub-
sidies, it equally has avoided introducing constraints such as producer prices
and other controls and taxes that might have restricted production. In Chapter
VII pricing arrangements for commodities are discussed in detail.
C. Agricultural Strategy
2.07      A frontal attack on agriculture and rural poverty will be indispens-
able for Liberia's development in the decades to come. With uncertainties
over future iron ore mining and the constraints on the development of a modern
industrial sector, much of future growth, employment and foreign exchange
earnings will have to depend on the development of agriculture. A Bank
Economic Mission 1/ that visited Liberia in 1973 recommended Government adopt
programs that would improve in the medium run the income earning capacity of
the rural poor, i.e. those in the traditional sector and in the longer run
the production of export crops. The mission also concluded that any success-
ful development strategy in Liberia would need to be regional because
constraints and ecological conditions differ between the coastal belt, which
is relacively thinly populated, has good communications, and is where most of
the concession plantations and commercial farms are located, and the rural
interior where the majority of the population lives cut off from the coastal
cities and the national market. The Mission stated that the principal points
of an action program in pursuit of the foregoing strategy should be:
(a) improvement of the institutional structure to plan and
carry out development projects more effectively;
(b) improvement of price incentives for increased production
by adopting an active price policy and improving the
marketing system and the infrastructure; and
1/   Report No. 426a-LBR, dated March 1. 1975.



--4-
(c) provision of a package of measures - extension, input
supply, credit and marketing - to traditional farmers
in order to raise t:heir level of production.
The project appraised in this report conforms to the strategy proposed by the
Economic Mission and indicates the acceptance by Government of Liberia (GOL)
of the principles of the strategy. The project would increase the incomes of
traditional farmers through assisting them to improve their production of rice,
cocoa, and coffee. These are crops which grow well in the project area and
in which the farmers have experience.
2.08      With increasing awareness of the pressing need to effect change
in the traditional farming areas, Government has adopted a number of ad hoc
approaches to development in recent years. Whilst some of these appear of
doubtful validity, they are still in the early stages and it is not possible
to assess fully their effectiveness. The most important of these is a large
scale mechanized land clearing program designed initially to aid the produc-
tion of rice. This program has focused on two areas, Cape Mount, and Foya
in the project area. For the mechianical clearing, GOL has established the
wholly GOL owned Agricultural Mechanization and Land Development Corporation
(AGRIMECO), managed and operated by AGRIDEV of Israel. Whilst the land
clearing (1,500 ha to December 1974) in the Foya area has been efficiently
carried out, the financial cost has been high and much damage done to the
fragile top soil. Farmers have been uninterested in using the land for rice
and most of the cleared land is now reverting to bush. The Ministry of
Agriculture (MA) is now attempting a crash program to help smallholders to
develop the existing and yet to be cleared land with coffee, cocoa and oil
palm, and LPMC is being required to provide inputs financed initially from
its Agricultural Development Fund. Credit arrangements for smallholders
participating in the scheme have not been finalized and generally adminis-
tration of the program is poor. In view of the high development costs of
this type of program and its doubtful benefits, and because its "give away"
nature could conflict with project procedures, an assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the existing special rice and tree crop development program
areas in Lofa County would not be included in the project in any way and
that GOL would not permit,with limited exceptions, AGRIMECO to undertake any
new land clearing in the project area after December 31, 1975 and during the
project development period. A further assurance was obtained from GOL during
negotiations that in the interest of avoiding conflicts with the project LPMC
and MA would ensure that charges levied for the development of land cleared
by AGRIMECO in the project area and the conditions and terms of credit for
inputs and cultivation of such land would be economic and in harmony with
those applied under the project.
D. Agricultural Institutions
2.09      Ministry of Agriculture.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is respon-
sible for agricultural research, extension and administration of technical



- 5 -
assistance. Its past impact has been limited, due to poor planning and
management, limited funds - about US$1.0 million or less than 2 percent of
total GOL expenditure between 1968 and 1970, the low caliber of the staff,
many of whom are unqualified and were appointed for non-professional reasons,
and lack of interest in agriculture. Government is aware of the need to
strengthen MA and is currently undertaking a reorganization study with the
aid of consultants financed under Credit 306-LBR. In addition GOL is devoting
an increasing proportion of its expenditure to agriculture; US$6.3 million
(7 percent of total GOL expenditure) in 1974; and US$9.6 million (10 percent
of total GOL expenditure) was allocated for 1975.
2.10      Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC).  The export crops,
coffee, cocoa, palm kernels and palm kernel oil (but not rubber), are processed
and marketed exclusively by the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC)
which was established in 1962, as a 50 percent GOL and 50 percent Danish-owned
company with the Minister of Agriculture as Chairman and four GOL appointed
directors to the ten-member board. In 1972 when LPMC's tax exemption status
ended, GOL decided not to buy out the Danish partner's interest but to review
the position annually. LPMC is largely autonomous, operates commercially and
is profitable. Export crops are purchased at prices established by LPMC
through Licensed Buying Agents (LBAs) who in turn buy through unlicensed
traders or subagents. In addition to export crops, LPMC also purchases and
mills paddy for sale locally and in Monrovia; and imports milled rice for
private trading (8,400 tons in 1974). Whilst LPMC's involvement in the Lofa
County paddy market is small (approx. 22 percent of 2,000 tons marketed in
1974), its official paddy price tends to establish the local market floor
price. LPMC operates three rice mills, coffee hullers, a palm kernel mill,
and a palm oil mill; it also owns small estates growing coffee, cocoa or oil
palm. LPMC maintains and controls two funds financed from deductions from
export crop sale proceeds (other than rubber), namely a Price Stabilization
Fund (US$1.1 million in 1974) for export crops, and an Agricultural Develop-
ment Fund (US$1.4 million in 1974). The latter fund is used to finance the
tree crop program covering coffee, cocoa and oil palm which LPMC has operated
on MA's behalf since 1973.
2.11      Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI).  LBDI was
established in 1965 with IFC assistance and subsequently received two Bank
loans. Agricultural credit is extremely limited in Liberia, the only known
sources of farm credit for which collateral is required are LBDI and the
commercial banks; whilst the cooperative, credit and marketing division of
the Ministry of Agriculture provides in a small way credit for seasonal inputs
and land development without collateral.  LBDI has agreed to establish a
branch in Voinjama with project financial assistance to administer the
proposed revolving credit fund which will provide agricultural credit to
project farmers through their cooperatives. An assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations.
2.12      Cooperatives.  There are four farmer produce marketing cooperatives
with some 3,700 members in the project area. Primary marketing was in the
hands of private traders, mainly Lebanese, until 1972 when GOL revoked the



- 6 -
licences of these LPMC buying agents and appointed the four cooperatives in
their place as the Licenced Buying Agents for Lofa County. Two of the
cooperatives are well run with assistance from Peace Corp Volunteers and
their operations are profitable; the other two are still in the early stages
of development and require support which would be provided under the proposed
project. Cooperative income consists of LPMC coffee and cocoa buying com-
mission, and rice trading profits. The cooperatives are anxious to increase
their volume of operations and to expand into the provision of farm input
supplies, credit and savings facilities which are presently severely limited
in Lofa County. The three largest cooperatives are constructing substantial
storage capacity from their own financial resources or with loans from LBDI.
The project would use the cooperatives for the delivery of farm inputs and
credit, and for providing marketing facilities to project farmers.
2.13      Research.  Although rubber research is undertaken privately by
Firestone Plantations Ltd., results are made available to Liberian farmers,
and provide a sound technical base for the industry. Rice and other food
crops applied research is the responsibility of GOL Central Agricutural
Experiment Station (CAES) at Suakoko with support from West Africa Rice
Development Association (WARDA) and UNDP. The gradual improvements in
quality are encouraging, but GOL needs to increase budgetary allocations to
sustain the research effort. There is little or no research on coffee,
cocoa and oil palm but data is available from other West African countries
with similar ecological conditions.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      General.  The project area is centered on Voinjama in Lofa County in
Northwest Liberia (see map).  It is bordered by Sierra Leone to the West   2
and by Guinea to the North and East. The project area covers some 3,300 km
and contains nearly 14,000 farming families (90,000 people). The climate is
tropical with ample rainfall of over 2,500 mm; topography and soils are suit-
able for the proposed development program.
3.02      Water.  The project area is drained by three major rivers, and
intersected by numerous streams. Swamps are formed from bottom land which
is permanently or temporarily waterlogged. Swamp rice cultivation during
the rainy season is reasonably assured and a small proportion of swamps have
sufficient water for two rice crops a year. The project area contains an
estimated 16,000 ha suitable for swamp rice development.
3.03      Local Administration.  Lofa County is divided into four chiefdoms
administered by elected paramount chiefs, which embrace 32 clans, each with
its own elected clan chief, and hierarchy of town and village chiefs and
elders. The county is administered by a County-Superintendent, the personal
representative of the President, but who reports administratively to the
Minister of Local Government and Rural Development. In recognition of their
importance and considerable traditional influence, the paramount and clan



chiefs became paid GOL employees in 1974 with the election of paramount and
clan chiefs subject to confirmation by the President and County-Superintendent
respectively.
3.04      Mineral Resources.  The Wologisi range on the southern border of
the project area contains estimated iron ore reserves of 900 million tons,
presently unexploited but with potential annual production of 10 million tons
of pellets. The Liberian Iron and Steel Corporation (LISCO), the concession
holders, must under the terms of their concession agreement, decide by
October 1975 whether to commence construction and, if they so decide, start
construction by September 1976 and production during 1980/81. Wologisi mine
development could have two effects on the proposed agricultural development
project: on one hand part of the rural labor force may be attracted to the
mine; on the other, however, the development would provide an accessible and
remunerative market for rice and other food crops grown in the project area.
The possible impact of the mine on the labor situation is taken into account
in the economic analysis in Chapter VIII.
3.05      Communications.  There is an unpaved primary road linking the main
towns of Foya, Kolahun, Voinjama and Zorzor with Monrovia and numerous poorly
maintained feeder roads and tracks link other population centers. GOL gave
an assurance during negotiation that the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) would
upgrade the maintenance standard of both primary and feeder roads (see para.
4.12). Whilst at present there are nine small airfields in the project area
used only by GOL and private small aircraft, Liberia Airways proposes to intro-
duce a trial scheduled service Monrovia/Voinjama in mid-1975. As telecom-
munication facilities with Monrovia are limited to a few GOL and private
radio sets, the project organization would install its own radio.
3.06      General Infrastructure.  Social and related services are limited.
The project would improve village water supplies and whilst education and
health facilities are also inadequate, improvements to education would be
made through the GOL Community Schools program to be financed in part by IDA
and augmented by project farmer training efforts; improved health facilities
will be provided through an approved USAID-financed rural health program for
Lofa Cotnty supported in part by a project-financed schistosomiasis surveil-
lance unit.
3.07      Farming Systems.  The upland farming system of shifting cultivation
consists of rice intercropped with vegetables, maize, peppers, beans, plan-
tains, etc., in the first year; followed by root crops and sugar cane in the
second year; thereafter the land is left fallow for five to ten years. This
very long fallow period is indicative of the area's relatively low popula-
tion pressure. At any one time up to 10,000 ha of the project area will be
under upland rice cultivation. A small number of swamps, (about 700 ha), have
been developed for rainfed rice cultivation on a semi-permanent basis and are
fallowed for a short period every 3 to 5 years. A mixture of local rice
varieties are grown on both uplands and swamps without the use of fertilizers
or pesticides. Tree crops grown in the project area are coffee 4,600 ha,



- 8 -
cocoa 3,000 ha and oil palm 500 ha. Cultivation standards are low, and
fertilizers and insecticides are not used. Total area presently under culti-
vation in food and tree crops is 19,000 - 20,000 ha annually, about ten
percent of land suitable for cultivation. The 1971 Census of Agriculture
covering a substantial part of the project area indicated a highly skewed farm
size distribution, 90 percent of the farms are less than 4 ha covering 46
percent of the surveyed area while the remaining 10 percent of the farms are
larger than 4 ha covering 54 percent of the surveyed area. However, of the
remaining 10 percent about half the farms are less than 10 ha and only 80
farms are larger than 20 ha, and many of these larger farms are neither fully
developed nor intenisively cultivated. Four ha is about the maximum that the
typical farm family can handle without hired labor (except at harvesting).
Availability of suiLtable land is not a constraint to improving the production
of the smaller farmers.  Most farms have some upland rice, and a few also
swamp rice; all farms grow the other traditional food crops for home consump-
tion and some obta:in cash income from vegetables and fruit trees. Coffee and
cocoa tend to be cultivated by the larger farmers, but many small farmers have
small plantings, usually up to 0.5 ha, to provide a cash income. Based on the
1971 Census of Agriculture, the average family labor force is 2.3 adult
equivalents on farns of 4 ha or less. Labor requirements are unevenly dis-
tributed over the year with peaks from March to June/July (land preparation,
planting) and from mid-October to December (harvesting). In between these
peaks there is seasonal under-employment.
3.08      Land Tenure.  Apart from small amounts, largely in the urban areas
that are owned freehold, land in Liberia is owned by the State. Within each
tribal area, however, the traditional authorities are responsible for the
administration of land and allocate right of usufruct to members of the com-
munity and others. This process is common to much of West Africa and provides
satisfactory tenure especially in areas, such as the project area, where
population pressure is light.  Land allocated to an individual may not be
sold or otherwise disposed of and as the planting of tree crops, because of
their long life, conveys a more permanent and owner-like right of usage,
permission of the t:raditional authorities must be obtained by the farmer
before he plants tree crops. To minimise the risks of ownership disputes over
tree crop areas and swamps which are limited in extent, the project would
provide the technical capability to undertake land surveys, if required.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project would be carried out over five years 1976 through 1980
and would involve:



(i) Farm and Crop Development - provision of development loans and
seasonal credit, through a revolving credit fund, to
develop and improve production of:
upland rice    - improvement      5,600 ha
swamp rice     - rehabilitation    500 ha
swamp rice     - new              1,400 ha
coffee         - rehabilitation    500 ha
coffee         - new              2,300 ha
cocoa          - rehabilitation    800 ha
cocoa          - new              1,500 ha
(ii)  Staffing - provision of technical and administrative staff
with support facilities for project implementation.
(iii) Training - construction and operation of a staff training
center, a farmer training center, and dormitory facilities.
-  recruitment and training of Liberians for extension,
cooperative/credit and project management;
-  training and upgrading existing cooperative staffing
and organization;
(iv) Social Services - construction of 100 village wells;
- provision of a schistosomiasis surveillance unit.
(v) Support Services - financial assistance to establish an LBDI
branch at Voinjama.
- provision of consultant services to advise (a) the
coffee and cocoa program, and (b) the schistosomiasis
program.
GOL would undertake, independently but in support of the project, road
improvements including construction of up to 100 km of new feeder roads and
rehabilitation of up to 500 km of existing feeder roads.
B. Detailed Features
4.02      Farm Development.  The schedule of farm development would be as
follows:



- 10 -
Year    1       2       3       4      5      Total
Upland rice - Improvement               150    650  1,200  1,600  2,000   5,600
Swamp rice  - Rehabilitation             50      50    100    150    150        500
- New                       -      150    250    400    600   1,400
Total Rice               2C0    850  1,550  2,150  2,750   7,500
Coffee       - Rehabilitation            50      80    100    120    150        500
- New                       -      500    500    600    700   2,300
Total Coffee              50    580    600    720    850   2,800
Cocoa        - Rehabilitation            50    100    150    200    300         800
- New                       -      300    300    400    500   1,500
Total Cocoa               50    400    450    600    800   2,300
GRAND TOTAL              300  1,830  2,600  3,470  4,400  12,600
4.03      Crop Development.  The project would provide credit for farm inputs,
including hired labor for swamp development, tools and equipment, seeds,
seedlings, fertilizer and chemicals for:
(a)  Upland rice improvement - presently upland rice is inter-
cropped with other food crops under shifting cultivation.
Estimated paddy yields are 1,000 kg/ha and are expected to
increase to 1,700 kg/ha with the use of 100 kg/ha of fertilizer
(20-20-0) and 50 kg/ha of improved seed of LAC 23 variety. Seed
would be replaced every fifth year; farm tools would be available
if required. Some 5,600 ha of the present 7,300 ha cultivated
would be improved under the project. (Details at Annex 1.)
(b)  Rainfed swamp rice - there is already 650 ha of rainfed swamp
rice in Lofa County. The project would increase paddy yields
from 1,500 kg/ha to 3,500 kg/ha over a five-year period for
500 ha through better water control and the use of fertilizer,
and fungicide treated seed of the IR 5 or IR 20 varieties.
The project would develop an additional 1,400 ha of swamp rice
by providing credit for hired labor in addition to credit for
inputs. However, a special provision of US$0.3 million for
mechanized land clearing equipment is included in project costs
in case labor is inadequate or clearing work too onerous to be
carried out by hand. (Details at Annex 1.)
(c)  Irrigated swamp rice - of the 1,900 ha of improved and new
rainfed swamp developments approximately 400 ha would have
sufficient water for double cropping. Paddy yields (double
crop) are expected to increase to 6,300 kg/ha over a six-year
period. (Details at Annex 1.)



- 11 -
(d) Tree crop development - project would rehabilitate 500 ha
coffee and 800 ha cocoa and would establish 2,300 lia of new
coffee and 1,500 ha of new cocoa. Farm inputs would be
provided including tools, seedlings, fertilizer, sprayers
and agricultural chemicals. Rehabilitated coffee yields
are expected to increase from 280 kg/ha to 700 kg/ha over
a 5-year period, rehabilitated cocoa yields from 280 kg/ha
to 600 kg/ha over a 2-year period. New planted coffee yields
are expected to increase to 1,000 kg/ha at full development
6 years after seedlings are planted, and new planted cocoa
to 850 kg/ha after 8 years. (Details at Annex 1.)
4.04      Seed Multiplication and Seedling Nurseries.  Adequate supplies of
fungicide-treated seed of improved varieties would be provided from breeder
seed supplied by CAES, Suakoko, through either the privately owned National
Seed Association or from project seed multiplication farms. Coffee and cocoa
seedlings grown from approved seed would be supplied by LPMC nurseries on
contract. Alternatively the project would produce its own seedlings from
imported seed. Technical advice on seedling production would be provided by
consultants retained under the project. (Details at Annex 1.)
4.05      Supply of Inputs.  The project would provide farm inputs to farmers
on credit for both farm development and seasonal requirements. Long-term
loans would be provided to small farmers to rehabilitate existing farms and
to establish new farms for swamp rice, coffee and cocoa. Loans would be
given in kind for tools and equipment, coffee and cocoa seedlings, fertilizers
and agricultural chemicals during the development period; and in cash for
hired labor for swamp land development. Seasonal credit would be provided in
kind for upland rice and swamp rice to cover seed and fertilizer; and for
coffee and cocoa would cover fertilizer, agricultural chemicals and replace-
ment sprayers. Delivery of farm inputs would be made through the farmer coop-
eratives. To ensure farmers permanent access to credit, the project would
establish a revolving credit fund to finance inputs, and which would be
administered by LBDI on behalf of GOL under a trust agreement. LBDI would
establish a branch at Voinjama with project financial assistance (para 4.11),
and would maintain separate accounts and financial arrangements for the
revolving credit fund. Farm inputs, other than seed and seedlings would be
imported through LPMC (acting on a commission basis), whilst rice seed,
coffee and cocoa seedlings would be procured locally (para. 4.04). (Details
of inputs and credit delivery systems are in Chapter VI and Annnex 7).
4.06      Staffing.  The project provides for up to 276 administrative, tech-
nical and commercial staff positions for project implementation, including
161 staff who would be available for transfer to agricultural development
programs in other areas in the last two years of project development. In
case suitably qualified Liberians wouild not be available for key positions,
the project orovides for up to ten internationally recruited staff. Staff so
recruited would be required to undertake practical training of their Liberian



-- 12 -
counterparts. Where appropriate, staff would be provided with rented housing,
and senior staff with vehicles and junior staff with motorcycles (details are
in Annex 5).
4.07      Staff training in project management and organization, and basic
technical skills would be provided at a residential training center, to be
constructed under the project at Voinjama and would be supplemented by prac-
tical on the job training. Further technical training would be provided at
CAES, Suakoko for rice agronomy; and at the existing Agricultural Extension
Training Center (AETC), Monrovia, where the project would construct a 15/20
bed dormitory block for project use for residential training courses covering
cultivation of rice, coffee and cocoa (para 6.12). The staff training program
is substantially in excess of immediate project needs and should be regarded
as an Investment in institution building that would be realized by other deve-
lopment projects (para 6.08). Internal training and support of cooperative
staff would be provided by the project through the assignment of four fulll
time resident cooperative officers (one to each cooperative) under the
direction of the cooperative training officer (para 6.13). Farmer training
would be provided by project staff for the more progressive farmers and their
wives at a residential farmer training center to be constructed by the project
at Kolahun. Full use would be made of the demonstration effect of these
farmers (para 6.14).
4.08      Village Wells.  The project would assist villages to construct up to
100 hand-dug village wells on a self help basis by the provision of materials
and technical advice.
4.09      Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit.  The project would construct and
staff laboratory facilities to monitor swamp areas being developed under the
project for schistosomiasis to support the Lofa County medical authorities,
and the approved USAID rural health program (not part of this project) which
provides improved medical facilities, including additional clinics, midwives,
village health visitors, drugs and supplies.
Support Services
4.10      Establishment of LBDI Branch.  The project would provide financial
assistance to LBDI for two years to establish and staff a branch at Voinjama.
The branch would provide normal banking services and administer the project's
revolving credit fund.
4.11      Consultant Services.  To strengthen and oversee the cocoa and coffee
development program, consultants would be required for a total of 14 man-
months to provide periodic technical advice.  The project would also finance
visits, by a WHO specialist to advise on the schistosomiasis surveillance
program for a total of 6 man-months.
4.12      Road Improvement.  The project area is well served with unpaved
primary and feeder roads but their condition is poor, many require realignment
and the reconstruction of some culverts and minor bridges. To provide all



- 13 -
weather access, the project requires (a) the upgrading and subsequent mainte-
nance of the primary road, linking Foya, Voinjama and Zorzor, together with
500 km of existing feeder roads, and (b) construction of 100 km of new feeder
roads. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) would undertake the road program, the phasing of which would be
agreed upon with the Project Management Unit (PMU). The cost of MPW road
improvements is estimated at about US$1.5 million. This amount is not
included in project cost nor covered by the project financing plan, see
Chapter V, para. 5.02. To strengthen the MPW program, the Project would
finance and PMU would undertake a small road maintenance program for minor
feeder tracks not covered by MPW.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs for the five-year development period 1976 through 1980
are estimated at US$17 million including contingencies of US$5 million and are
net of all identifiable taxes and duties. Physical contingencies have been
calculated at 5 percent of base costs and amount to US$0.6 million, whilst
price contingencies amounting to US$4.4 million (35 percent of base cost plus
physical contingencies) allow for compounded increases in costs of (a) vehi-
cles, plant and farm inputs of 18 percent in 1976, 8 percent per annum 1977
through 1979, and 7 percent in 1980; (b) buildings and construction materials
for training centers, roads, and wells of 24 percent in 1976, 12 percent per
annum 1977 through 1979, and 10 percent in 1980; (c) salaries, consultants,
technical assistance and local costs of 11 percent in 1976, and 7 percent per
annum 1977 through 1980. Project infrastructure accounts for 14 percent of
base costs, incremental farm inputs 31 percent, farmer support services 53
percent, and technical assistance 2 percent. Total foreign exchange costs
are estimated at US$7.8 million, 46 percent of project costs. Detailed cost
estimates are presented in Annex 9 and summarized on page 15.
5.02      Costs are based on prices prevailing during January 1975 for
vehicles, equipment, materials, and farm inputs and exclude all identifiable
taxes and duties. Confirmation was obtained at negotiations that (a) all
project imports would be exempt from import taxes and duties, and (b) the
salaries of internationally recruited staff would be free from income taxes.
Salaries and wages have been based on up-to-date scales including allowances.
Cost of staff who may need to be recruited overseas is based on current
international salary levels and includes anpropriate allowances. Hired labor
for land development has been costed at full current market value. The cost
of seasonal inputs has been estimated on an incremental basis. The project
provided road improvement costs referred to in para 4.12, cover purchase
of limited equipment and operating costs during development period for mainte-
nance of minor feeder tracks; whilst the costs of the GOL program are not
included in project costs.



14 1
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      A special feature of the project is a USAID contribution of US$5.0
million. IDA would contribute US$6.0 million, and GOL US$6.0 million. The
IDA credit would finance US$4.8 million (61 percent) of the total foreign
exchange costs of US$7.8 (46 percent of total project costs) and US$1.2
million (13 percent) of local costs. The USAID loan would finance US$3.0
million (39 percent) of foreign exchange and US$2.0 million (22 percent) of
local costs; it would be separately disbursed and cover the costs of the
PMU cooperative/credit division, imported farm inputs and hired labor for
swamp development, the schistosomiasis surveillance unit and construction of
a dormitory. The IDA Credit would be on standard terms and the USAID loan
would be for 40 years, including 10-year grace, repayable in 30 equal annual
installments with interest at 2 percent during the grace period and 3 percent
thereafter. The financing plan is summarized on page 16.
5.04      Retroactive financing of up to US$100,000 is proposed to cover the
costs of early recruitment of the project manager, training and development
controller, and agricultural manager prior to credit signature.



15 -
(uss '000) n '
'US$ vow)) 
Percent
of
Base
Local    Foreign      Total       Costs
I. Infrastructure Costs
Road improvement              277.7      174.0      451.7         4
Training centers             437.5       423.2      860.7         7
Well construction              50.0        50.0     100.0         1
Schistosomiasis uhit           82.1      202.0      284.1         2        14
II.  Fann InpuLs (Incremental)
Fertili zers                  204.J      830.0   1 ,03h.8         9
Seeds, seedlings, sprayers,
shemicals, and hired labor
for swamp development    2,143.8        530.0   2,673.8         22        31
III. Fanner Support Services
Local staff                2,299.9         -      2,299.9        19
internationally recruited
staff                         -       1,525.0   1,525.0         13
Buildings                     48.0        77.0      125.0         1
Vehicles and equipment        186.9      826.8   1,013.7          8
Administration and
operating costs             728.7       648.0   1,376.?         12        53
IV. Technical Assistance
Assistance to LBDI             60.0       90.0      150.0         1
Consultarts                     -        100.0      100.0         1         2
Base cost estimate         6,519.4    5,476.0  11,995.4                   100
V.  Physical contingencies (5%) 321-0        274.0      595.0
Expected Irice increases
(-5,/-1)                  2,409.6    2,000.0   4,409.6
Total cass  zcf
project                   92250.0-  7750.0  17,000.0
Distribution %                54          46        100



- 16 -
Summary cf Proposed Financing
(US$ '000)
Total      IDA    USAID      GOL
Investment Costs
Buildings and
construction materials        h35.0    340.0    95.0        -
Vehicles and equipment        1,246.1    836.0    185,1    225.0
Farm Inputs
Fertilizer                     1,034.8      -    1,03408      -
Other including seed,
seedlings, tools,
agricultural chemicals
and hired labor             2,673.8       -    1,042.0  1,631.8
Annual Operating Costs
Local staff                    2,773.7      -      650.6  2,123.1
Internationally recruited
staff                       1,895.0 I,410.0    h85.0        _
Vehicles and equipment           902.0   902.0       -
Administration                  785.0   743.0       4R2.0 
Assistance to  LBDI              150.0    150.0      -
Consultants                      100.0     60.0     40h0      -
Subtotal           11,995.4 4,441.0  3,57h.5  3,979.9
Contingencies - physical         595-0    219.0    176.0   200.0
- price         4,409.6  1,340.0  1,249.5  1,820.1
Total              17,000.0  6,000.0  5,000.o  6,000.0
Percent       100        35        30       35



- 17 -
C. Procurement
5.05      Contracts for the procurement of vehicles, plant, equipment and
other items financed by IDA and valued at more than US$25,000 would be let
following international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. Such procurement is estimated to have a value of US$0.9 million.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15 percent preference or
tariff, whichever is lower, when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign
manufacturers. Items between US$5,000 and US$25,000 would be procured on
contracts which would be awarded on the basis of comipetitive bidding adver-
tised locally and in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable
to IDA. A maximum limit of US$0.3 million would be placed on the procurement
of items between US$5,000 and US$25.000. Procurement financed by USAID would
be in accordance with their procedures -and is estimated to have a value of
US$3.6 million (para 5.10).
5.06      Project houses and buildings would be rented insofar as practical
and PMU would enter into rental agreements under local procedures satisfactory
to IDA. To ensure early availability of suitable rented accommodation,
advance payments of rent would be permitted to part finance landlord costs
of construction and/or improvements. Project costs include US$0.2 million
for rented accommodation. Project training centers with a value of US$0.1
million would be constructed by either local contractors in accordance with
local contract procedures acceptable to IDA or PMU force account.
5.07      Wells would be constructed by villagers under supervision on a self-
help basis with project supplied materials estimated to cost US$0.1 million.
5.08      A substantial part of project costs, an estimated US$5.0 million,
would be for hired labor, local staff salaries, maintenance and operation of
buildings, vehicles and equipment which are unsuitable for competitive bidding.
Internationally recruited staff (see para 6.04) would be appointed on terms
acceptable to IDA for all positions other than commercial manager, cooperative
training officer, and head of the schistosomiasis surveillance unit who would
be appointed on terms acceptable to USAID.
D. Disbursement
5.09      The IDA Credit of US$6 million would be disbursed (see Annex 9,
Table 11) over the five-year period, 1976 through 1980, to cover 35 percent
of total project costs against the following categories:



- 18 -
US$ million
Cat. 1    100 percent of foreign or 80 percent of local
expenditure for vehicles and equipment not financed
by USAID (para 5.10, Cat. 1 (iii))                             0.9
2    90 percent of expenditure for civil works and
construction materials                                         0.4
3    100 percent of foreign or 80 percent of local
expenditure for internationally recruited staff /1             1.7
4    90 percent of local expenditure for administra-
tion and operating costs                                       1.7
5    100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local
expenditures for LBDI assistance                               0.2
6    100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local
expenditure for consultants services /2                        0.1
5.0
Unallocated                                                         1.0
Total                    6.0
5.10      The USAID loan of US$5 million would be disbursed during the same
period to cover 30 percent of project costs against the following categories:
US$ million
Cat. 1    100 percent of total expenditure for:
(i)  fertilizer, agricultural chemicals, improved
seed, agricultural tools and equipment, and
hired labor for development                               2.1
(ii) Vehicles and equipment for the cooperative/
credit division and the schistosomiasis unit             0.2
(iii) erected cost of 15-20 bed dormitory block
with equipment                                           0.1
(iv) internationally recruited staff, local staff,
consultants /3 and general support costs for the
cooperative/credit division, and schistoso-
miasis unit                                               1.2  3.6
Cat. 2    Unallocated to cover physical and price contingencies                1.4
Total          5.0
/1   All staff excepting commercial manager, cooperative training officer,
and head of the schistosomiasis unit who are financed by USAID (para
5.10, cat. 1 (iv)).
/2   Visiting coffee and cocoa experts for project crop development.
/3   Visiting WHO specialist for the schistosomiasis program.



- 19 -
5.11      The GOL contribution of US$6.0 million, 35 percent of project costs,
would cover the following categories; local costs of imported vehicles and
equipment, local staff costs (other than financed by USAID loan, Cat. 1 (iv))
and the costs of seeds and seedlings.
5.12      IDA disbursements would be fully documented for Categories 1, 2, 3,
5 and 6. Disbursement for Category 4 would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures, the supporting documents for which would not be submitted for
review but would be retained by PMU for scrutiny by IDA project supervision
missions. Surplus credit funds, if any, would be used for further development
of the project area.
5.13      Disbursement of USAID funds would be made direct according to USAID
procedures.
E. Budgetary Control, Funding Procedures,
Accounts and Audit
5.14      Under supervision of the Deputy Project Manager, the Finance Manager
would prepare annual budgets for approval by the Project Steering Committee.
(PSC) and inclusion in MA Annual Estimates. Project budgets will be based on
the cost estimates in this report with suitable ammendment to reflect changes
in project costs, policies, and development schedules. Thereafter PMU would
submit to the Project Steering Committee quarterly cash flow forecasts
indicating costs, revenues and working capital requirements.
5.15      During negotiations, agreement was obtained that as a condition of
effectiveness, GOL would establish a project bank account with LBDI, or an
established commercial bank if LBDI is initially precluded by its statutes
from commercial banking, with an amount of US$100,000. Subsequently the
account would be replenished with funds by the Ministry of Finance quarterly
in advance to finance forecasted local expenditures as approved by PSC
(para 5.14). Both IDA and USAID reimbursement of local expenditures would
be made direct to the Ministry of Finance. Subject to approval of the project
budget and the regular submission of the quarterly cash flow forecasts (para
5.14), PMU would be given full authority to operate the Bank account within
the budgetary allocation.
5.16      PMU would maintain income and expenditure records in accordance
with acceptable accounting practices to reflect the operations and financial
position of the project and to provide evaluation data. The accounts would
be scrutinized periodically by the PMU evaluation and planning section, and
audited annually by external auditors acceptable to IDA. Assurance in this
respect was obtained at negotiations.
5.17      GOL would ensure that project farmer cooperatives maintain adequate
a) farmer credit records, and b) operating records and accounts. These



20 -
records and accounts would be audited annually by the Registrar of Cooperatives,
and subject to scrutiny by IDA project supervision missions. Assurances to
these effects were obtained at negotiations.
5.18      LBDI would maintain separate accounts and records of the revolving
credit fund, in accordance with the revolving credit fund agreement (see para
6.19) which would be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to IDA.
Assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutions, Staffing and Project Implementation
6.01      Background.  MA technical field services are grouped under an assist-
ant minister in eight division: rice, extension, cooperatives/credit and
marketing, applied research, livestock, agricultural engineering, plant
quarantine, and fisheries. In 1973, MA made LPMC responsible for sponsoring
coffee, cocoa and oil palm development by private farmers.
6.02      In the project area there are currently several independent and
uncoordinated MA operations: these are the MA extension service, the Foya
rice project, the AGRIMECO mechanized land clearing program at Foya and
Kolahun, a UNDP swamp rice development project, a Taiwanese staff rice project,
and the LPMC tree crop program. Within six months of project effectiveness,
LPMC would relinquish extension responsibilities for coffee and cocoa in
the project area and transfer extension staff surplus to its needs to the
project. In addition, the present County agriculture and cooperative extension
staff which comprises the County Agent, a cooperative officer, and 14 other
staff would be transferred to the project which henceforward would be
responsible for all extension services in the County. The project would
strengthen these services through the recruitment and training of additional
staff; provision of transport, equipment and buildings; and through introducing
improved conditions of service for staff (par 4.07). At the end of the proj-
ect development period the extension service would again become an MA county
organization albeit much strengthened and more efficient, if it had not been
transferred to the Special Development Authority (as discussed at paras 6.08
and 6.09). The remaining MA controlled organizations and projects in Lofa
County would remain independent of the project; these activities are the
Foya rice project, the AGRIMECO mechanized land clearing program at Foya
and Kolahun, a UNDP swamp rice development project, a Taiwanese staffed rice
project, and the LPMC oil palm program. Assurances to these effects were
obtained at negotiations.
6.03      A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established to carry out
the project and would have headquarters at Voinjama. PMU would be headed by
a Project Manager responsible through a project steering committee to the
Minister of Agriculture. PMU would comprise six divisions: administration



- 21 -
and personnel, finance, training, cooperatives and credit, land development,
and agriculture. The project manager would be assisted by a Deputy and be
supported by an evaluation and planning unit. The training division would be
responsible for all staff and farmer training. The cooperatives and credit
division would be responsible for strengthening and supporting the four
project cooperatives (see para 6.15), which would be the channels for farm
input, credit delivery, and credit repayment collection; and to facilitate
project involvement in farmer cooperatives, GOL gave an assurance during
negotiations to designate the commercial manager as an assistant Registrar
of Cooperatives. The land development division would be responsible for
land use planning, swamp identification and layout, maps, feeder road iden-
tification and alignment, and survey work connected with land demarcation
(see para 3.08). The agriculture division would consist of three sections:
(a) field experiments, demonstration farms and applied research, it would
conduct the latter in liason with CAES (see para 2.13); (b) extension
services for all project crops; and (c) rice seed multiplication and the
production of coffee and cocoa seedlings either directly or through the
agency of LPMC.
6.04      PMU positions would be filled by qualified local staff wherever
suitably qualified Liberians were available; however, such persons are in
short supply and it is clear that some positions will have to be filled by
persons recruited internationally. At this time the number of the latter
cannot be determined, but the project provides funds for international
recruitement of the project manager, evaluation and planning officer, hIds
of the six operational divisions, a cooperative training officer, and the
head of the schistosomiasis surveillance unit. Internationally recruited
staff will have the dual function of project execution and of training Liberians
at all levels. The project provides sufficient funds for Liberians to be
appointed as deputies to the project manager and each of the six operational
division managers, if in practice these are expatriates. Under this arrangement
an expatriate appointed to any of these posts would be responsible for train-
ing his deputy to take over from him within a period that would be agreed by
GOL and IDA at the time of the expatriate's appointment. To assist and en-
courage GOL to recruit a project manager, training and development controller,
and an agricultural manager prior to project signature, retroactive financing
of expenditure so incurred is provided (see para 5.04). Furthermore during
negotiations the arrangements for international recruitment and the prefinanc-
ing required for this purpose were discussed and agreed. Job descriptions
for key positions are presented in Annex 5. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the project manager, deputy project manager, training and
development controller, agricultural manager, finance manager, administrative
manager, land planning officer, and evaluation and planning officer would be
appointed on terms, conditions, and with qualifications satisfactory to IDA.
The commercial manager, cooperative training officer and head of the schisto-
somiasis surveillance unit would be appointed on terms, conditions and with
qualifications satisfactory to USAID. Additionally it was agreed during
negotiations that the appointment of the project manager, training and devel-
opment controller, and agricultural manager would be a condition of effective-
ness.



- 22 -
6.05      Project Steering Committee.  To ensure cooperation with other GOL
departments concerned directly cor indirectly with the project, a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) would be established within three months of credit
effectiveness with terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The Committee would
comprise the Ministers (or their deputies) of Agriculture (Chairman); Finance;
Planning; Local Government and Rural Development, with the Project Manager as
Secretary. Assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
6.06      Project Advisory Committee.  A Project Advisory Committee would be
established within three months of effectiveness to ensure cooperation with
the area adminstration, and support for and participation in the project by
the local people. The committee would consist of the County Superintendent
(Chairman), the four paramount chiefs of the County who are elected by the
people, the presidents of the four cooperatives, and the project manager and
his deputy. The evaluation and planning officer would be the secretary. PMU
would discuss its objectives and plans with the Committee in order to take
full account of local needs, corditions, customs and attitudes.
6.07      The weakness of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) was discussed in
Chapter II (para 2.09). Currently a study is being made of MA, its functions
and its financial needs under Credit 306-LBR. This study will not be con-
cluded until late 1975 and it cannot be determined which of its recommendations
will be acceptable to GOL.
6.08      As MA now functions it does not attract persons of the qualifica-
tions, energy and experience that Liberia needs if MA is to be an efficient
instrument in the development of the nation's agriculture. Under the proj-
ect an attempt will be made to recruit and train personnel with the capa-
bilities of playing a major role in Liberia's agricultural development in the
future. It seems clear, however, that at the end of the project period when
PMU will have completed its task, and when the project area will revert to
normal extension activities that the persons recruited and trained under the
Project will not be prepared to transfer to MA, unless the role it plays in
the nation's development is much greater and more effective than now, and
unless the terms and conditions of service that the Ministry offers are
adequate and attractive.
6.09      It is possible that GOL will find it difficult or maybe impossible
to reorganize MA to meet these objectives; inevitably, for example, an improve-
ment in terms and conditions of service will have to be harmonized with other
agencies of Government and this could prove difficult. If MA is not reorga-
nized there is the danger that project recruited and trained staff would be
lost to the sector. Also MA would itself be no better qualified to spervise
the implementation of successor projects to that appraised in this report, for
example, the Agricultural Development Project that has been prepared for Bong
County, and the Smallholder Rubber Development Project. To guard against
this possibility, agreement was reached with GOL that in the event MA was not
organized to the degree necessary to ensure the successful implementation of
the Lofa and other development projects, a special development authority



- 23 -
would be established to take over these functions. Assurance was obtained
at negotiations that within six months of issue of the consultant's report
on the reorganization of MA, GOL will discuss the implications of the report
with IDA.
Project Implementation
6.10      For implementation the project would be divided into clan areas
grouped under the four paramount chiefdoms. One chiefdom would be developed
at a time with Zorzor chiefdom last as it has the weakest data base. The
evaluation and planning unit would collect planning data on the Zorzor chiefdom
as one of its first priorities. Implementation would be carried out in stages.
The first stage would be identification of development areas, swamps, road
requirements, and farmers; followed by farmer training, road improvement, land
clearing, soil preparation, and distribution of seed and seedlings. Existing
MA extension, cooperative and credit services would be transferred to PMU
(para 6.02).
6.11      Sufficient extension, cooperative/credit staff would be recruited
and trained in project year one to service farmers commencing land development
in project year two. Part of this staff would then be transferred to the next
development area in project year three and replaced by more recently recruited
staff. This progression would be continued until development was completed
with the most experienced staff concentrating on the new areas. By the end
of the development period, staff would be progressively reduced, permitting
the surplus staff to be transferred to other projects or development schemes,
whilst those remaining in Lofa County would revert to MA (see also para 6.09).
At the end of development period, local staff, equipment and facilities of the
schistosomiasis surveillance unit would be transferred to the Voinjama (Ministry
of Health) hospital; road equipment and staff would be transferred to Ministry
of Public Works; staff training center and farmer training center would be
transferred to County Superintendent for benefit of the County unless required
for other MA development schemes.
B. Staff, Cooperative and Farmer Training
6.12      In view of shortages of trained staff and time constraints, project
would train all staff levels through a combination of short formal courses
interspersed with practical field training. Courses would be provided at a
staff training center to be constructed at Voinjama and at AETC, Monrovia.
Staff would be recruited at least six months prior to field appointment to
allow for adequate training. Training would be the responsibility of the
Training and Development Controller, assisted by two full-time lecturers at
Voinjama and the division managers. Courses at Voinjama would cover admin-
istration and organization, project objectives, communications and PR, and
basic agricultural practices. More advanced training would be provided



24 -
through short-residential technical courses at CAES, Suakoko, on rice agro-
nomy, and at AETC for all project crops with teaching inputs provided by
University of Liberia, WARDA and MA technical staff.
6.13      Training would be given to all cooperative staff levels, covering
farmer credit, input supply, marketing, management and organization. Training,
which would be the responsibility of the cooperative training officer with
guidance from the Training and Development Controller, would be undertaken
either at the PMU training center Voinjama or at the cooperatives, by a full
time cooperative officer, assigned to each of the four cooperatives, who would
conduct short introduction and technical courses interspersed with supervised
practical training.
6.14      Farmer training would consist of residential farm family courses at
the farmer training center, demonstration farms, farm visits, village/group
discussions with film and slide shows and other training aids. Training would
be coordinated by the Training and Development Controller, with support from
the project manager, agricultural manager, and commercial manager. Full use
would be made of the demonstration effect of the more progressive farmers.
C. Farm Inputs, Procurement Distribution
and Credit Arrangements
6.15      During Project development period, PMU cooperative/credit division
would supervise and train the four farmer cooperatives to establish annual
farm input and credit requirements from information supplied by village groups
with extension staff assistance. These village requirements would be totalled
by the four area cooperatives who would in turn advise LPMC (for procurement
of inputs), LBDI (for farmer credit needs and financing of non-incremental
farm inputs from the revolving credit fund), and PMU (for project financing of
incremental farm inputs). On receipt of LPMC organized imported inputs
together with Liberian procured seed and seedlings, cooperatives would
organize distribution to village centers, primarily with hired transport, at
preannounced times. Farmers would collect inputs and if, on credit, complete
all credit documentation at that time. Distribution would be supervised by
the extension services. All farm inputs would be provided to the farmer in
kind and financed from the revolving credit fund. Cash payments for hired
labor as certified by the extension service, would be made by cooperatives,
under PMU direct supervision with funds provided from the revolving credit
fund. All farm inputs would be supplied at full cost plus a cooperative
operating margin.
6.16      Credit.  Both medium-term development loans and seasonal credit
would be provided under the project. Development loans for swamp rice would
cover the cost of tools, hired labor and/or equipment for land clearing; and
for coffee and cocoa would cover the cost of tools, seedlings, fertilizers,
sprayers and agricultural chemicals. Seasonal credit for upland and swamp



- 25 -
rice would cover seed and fertilizers; and for coffee and cocoa would cover
fertilizers, sprayers and agricultural chemicals. Farmer credit records would
be maintained by the cooperatives. Development loans would bear interest at
10 percent per annum, whilst seasonal credits would bear a service charge of
10 percent (equivalent to 15 percent per annum where average seasonal credit
outstanding eight months). Following revision of the usury law in March
1975, which raised interest limits from 10 percent to 25 percent, commercial
interest rates have risen to 12-15 percent. However small farmers have very
little access to commercial credit; such limited amounts of credit that are
available are provided mainly from Government sponsored sources at very low
interest rates. Given the trial nature of the project, and project farmers'
first exposure to substantial agricultural credit, the 10 percent interest
rate for development loans and the service charge of 10 percent on seasonal
credit are realistic and within the debt servicing capacity of all proposed
project crop developments (see Annex 4). Swamp development loans would be
disbursed in one installment and repayable in 6 equal annual installments
after a 2-year grace period. Coffee and cocoa development loans for re-
habilitation would be disbursed in one installment repayable in 5 and 3 equal
annual installments respectively. Coffee and cocoa development loans for
new planting would be disbursed over three years and would be repayable in
4 equal annual installments for coffee, and 8 equal annual installments for
cocoa after a four-year grace period for both coffee and cocoa, during which
interest would be capitalized. Development loans would be disbursed in kind
with exception of cash for hired labor (para 6.15). Seasonal credit would
be provided in kind. All credit would be repayable at the end of each season
following harvesting.
6.17      Loan and credit applications, after screening by a village or
group Credit Advisory Comittee consisting of village or clan chief, one
or two respected farmers, local-agriculture and cooperative/credit
extension assistants,and a credit officer from the cooperative, would be
submitted to PMU for approval. Development loan applicants would require
tribal confirmation of the borrower's right to use the land to be developed.
As the farm crop development pattern will vary considerably, the project
proposes that discretion should be given to PMU to determine individual credit
limits within an overall maximum of US$1,000 per farm family. Whilst this
seems high, it is based on the cost of farm inputs required to develop 1
hectare of cocoa spread over a 4-year period (3 year development together
with the first seasonal credit granted in year 4) which is within the capacity
of the family labor of the smaller farmer to cultivate in addition to his
upland food crops. On the same basis 1 hectare coffee would require US$746
(over 4 years), 1 hectare rainfed swamp rice, US$385 (for 1 year). Credit
would be restricted to the smaller farmers and would be assessed on a farmers
availability and suitability of land, capability, family labor availability,
and creditworthiness. The overall credit limit of US$1,000 would be amended
from time to time to allow for price inflation with IDA's prior approval.
Based on the crop development program duriL.g the project development period,
credit needs would total US$3.8 million, US$3.0 million for development and
US$0.8 million for seasonal credit. Sufficient development loan repayments
would be received by the revolving credit fund in the post project development
period to finance completion of project commenced crop development (see Annex
7, Table 1).



- 26 -
6.18      Credit Recovery.  Credit recovery would be the responsibility of the
cooperatives. As project area LBA's, the cooperatives would purchase farmers
coffee and cocoa and make deductions of credit repayments from the proceeds.
Marketing of coffee and cocoa through his cooperative would be a condition for
a farmer's access to project credit. As paddy would be partly farm consumed
and partly sold freely on the local market, it would not be possible to make
deduction from sale proceeds, consequently the farmers cooperative, with
cooperative/credit extension service assistance, would maintain close liason
with paddy farmers at harvest time, to collect credit repayments. Addition-
ally, by offering attractive paddy prices, cooperatives would encourage the
marketing of surplus paddy through their own organizations thereby strengthen-
ing their credit collection opportunities. The assistance of Credit Advisory
Committees and of the tribal authorities would be sought in bad debt recovery.
6.19      Field Staffing.  An important part of the credit system would be the
role of the PMU cooperative/credit assistant, supported by the agriculture
extension assistants, namely: (a) to establish farmer credit needs, (b) to
explain and train the farmer in credit management; (c) to supervise and advise
the field management of farm inputs, credit, marketing and credit recovery
system, and (d) general field support of the farmer cooperative efforts.
6.20      Credit Institutions.  The project would create a revolving credit
fund for farmer credit, to be administered by LBDI on GOL behalf under a
agreement between LBDI and GOL. At the end of project development in 1980,
the fund would amount to US$3.8 million 1/ for the benefit of 8,000 farmers.
By 1987, all development loans amounting to US$3.4 million would have been
repaid and available for further agricultural development as determined by
the trust agreement. The fund would be built up by the channelling of the
development and incremental seasonal inputs, financed and supplied by the
project to farmers through the farmers cooperatives (see para 6.15). The
fund would charge the farmers cooperatives interest at 7 percent per annum
on the credit which the cooperatives in turn on-lend to farmers at 10 percent,
leaving a 3 percent margin (approximately an 8 percent margin on seasonal
credit as farmer lloans would be outstanding for less than 12 months - para
6.16) to cover credit administration and bad debts. LBDI would receive a 2
percent commission on disbursed credit leaving 5 percent to be retained by
the revolving credit fund. Development loan and seasonal credit repayments
would be recovered from farmers by cooperatives and paid over to LBDI, for
credit to the revolving credit fund. After the first year, seasonal farm
inputs would be financed direct from the revolving credit fund, leaving only
the incremental seasonal inputs tcgether with additional development inputs
to be project financed (details at Annex 7). Additionally, LBDI would
provide normal banking facilities to the project, cooperatives, County
authorities, LPMC, and other orgarizations and larger farmers. Savings
facilities would be available to the smaller farmers at the cooperatives who
are currently paying 2 percent per annum on deposits. An assurance was
1/   Excluding interest income.



- 27 -
obtained at negotiations that GOL would establish a revolving credit fund
in accordance with an agreement to be entered into with LBDI, satisfactory
to IDA by September 30, 1975.
D. Processing and Storage
6.21      Processing Facilities.  At Voinjama, LPMC has a 1-ton/hour rice mill
and a 1-ton/hour coffee huller for processing LPMC's own and farmers produc-
tion. Due to its pricing policies, see Chapter VII, LPMC purchases of paddy
rice and cherry coffee are small and consequently these processing facilities
are under utilized. Most farmers prefer to have their paddy milled and cherry
coffee hulled on contract by small private millers of which there is an
increasing number. The LPMC and private mills provide sufficient physical
capacity to handle existing production as well as increases in production that
would be induced by the project.
6.22      Storage.  Farmers rice surplus to their domestic needs would be
marketed through the traditional system of private traders with increasing
amounts being channelled through the cooperatives; coffee and cocoa would be
marketed through the cooperatives as LBAs for LPMC as in the past. Storage
capacity available for project production at full development would be adequate
as three out of four project cooperatives are constructing additional storage
capacity (para 2.12). LPMC has substantially under-utilized storage capacity
at Voinjama, and storage capacity of former private commodity traders is
unused. Consequently, additional bulk storage facilities would not be re-
quired for the project. However, to assist farmers to market their crop
at the primary market level, the project would provide for construction of
small buying stores at village centers at which the four cooperatives would
be able to buy direct from farmers thus excluding the existing small middle-
men.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, FARM
INCOME AND RECOVERY OF COST
A. Production
7.01      The variety of ecological conditions and farm sizes in the project
area, and the complexity of cropping patterns, are such that yield variations
would be inevitable and substantial. Without project development crop yields
are based on observations and surveys conducted in the pre-appraisal study,
supplemented for rice by field trial results at CAES, Suakoko, but are neces-
sarily tentative. Without and with development yields are summarized below.



- 28 -
Without Development           With Development
Average    Total           Average    Total         Incremental
Area    Yield  Production Area    Yield  Production /1  Production
ha     kg/ha   '000 tons  ha       kg/ha   '000 tons        '000 tons
Crops
Upland Rice      5,600   1,000       5.6    5,600   1,700       9.5
Swamp Rice /2
Rehabilitation  400   1,500        0.6       400   3,500      1.4
New                -        -        -    1,100   3,500       3.9
Swamp Rice /3
Rehabilitation  100   1,500        0.2       100   6,300      0.6
New                -        -        -       300   6,300      1.9
6.4                      17.3              10.9
Coffee
Rehabilitation  500      280       0.2       500     700      0.4
New                -        -        -    2,300   1,000       2.3
0.2                        2.7              2.5
Cocoa
Rehabilitation  800      280       0.2       800     600      0.5
New                -        -        -    1,500      850      1.3
0.2                        1.8              1.6
/1   Upland rice, first year of development.
Swamp rice, improved - 5 years after first planting; new - 6 years.
Coffee, rehabilitation 5 years after seedlings planted, new - 6 years.
Cocoa, rehabilitation 2 years after seedlings planted, new - 8 years.
/2   Single crop.
/3   Double crop.
7.02      As far as upland rice is concerned the without project yield of
1 ,000 kg/ha may appear high; however upland rice is particularly high yielding
in the wetter zones of West Africa where, as in the case of the project area,
it is the first crop that follows the slashing and burning of forest or bush
fallow. Yields of more than 2 tons/ha have been commonly recorded. The
anticipated increment of 700 kg/ha from the minimum package of improved seed
and fertilizer is substantiated in particular by the very large volume of
experience in the Ivory Coast with upland rice, and is endorsed by the West
African Rice Development Association (WARDA). Without and with development
yield estimates for swamp rice are drawn from Liberian experience, and in
particular from experience obtained at the IDA financed agricultural develop-
ment project at Kenema in Sierra Leone, where an identical program of swamp
rice development has been implemented for the last three years. Kenema is



- 29 -
about 150 km from the project area, has a similar eco-climate and is popu-
lated by the same ethnic group. Cocoa and coffee yields are based on the
very large amount of experience available throughout West Africa.
B. Marketing and Prices
7.03      Rice.  Project participants would sell their rice on the open market
either directly or through their cooperatives. LPMC participates competitively
in this market but its share is small, less than 3 percent of all domestically
produced rice marketed in Liberia. LPMC intervention in the market is impor-
tant only insofar as its paddy price tends to act as a floor price above
which private traders operate. Currently the LPMC purchase price is
US$0.24/kg; this is somewhat lower than what could be paid for domestically
produced rice thus permitting it to remain competitive with imported rice. As
LPMC intervention in the rice market could be an important instrument in en-
suring that private traders pay fair prices to producers, GOL undertook during
negotiations that LPMC would continue its floor price setting role in the
project area by continuing to offer to purchase paddy at prices which it would
set following consultation with Government and PMU. GOL confirmed that the
LPMC role would be to endeavor to maximize, for project participants their
share of the real market value for their paddy without LPMC itself becoming
a permanent and major purchaser of paddy.
7.04      Adequate paddy processing facilities exist in the project area for
the anticipated output. LPMC operates a 1-ton/hr capacity mill which it
uses to process its own purchases, and there is a large and increasing number
of small mills that practice custom milling. Parboiling is not widely
employed. Rice to paddy outturts are 66-68 percent for the LPMC mill; 50-55
percent for the small mills; and about 65 percent for traditional hulling
by hand pounding. One reason for low outturns--a good performance would be
68 percent--is the differing milling characteristics of the mixture of
varieties grown. This situation would be improved as a consequence of the
project.
7.05      In project calculations and farm budgets, the farmgate paddy prices
used and expressed in constant 1975 dollars are as follows. Economic price:
US$0.23/kg, the 1980 import substitution value of project produced rice which
reflects the Bank's assessment that the world market price of rice of a
similar quality as now imported by Liberia will by 1980 fall some 27 percent
below the present US$380/ton FOB Bangkok. Financial price: US$0.21/kg, the
estimated price that the farmer will receive by 1980; it assumes that the
farmer's rice eventually will be retailed in Monrovia and that he will receive
only 90 percent of the real financial farmgate value due to marketing ineffi-
ciencies. Price breakdowns are at Annex 8, Table S.



- 30 -
7.06      Project induced milled rice production is estimated at 7,300 tons 1/
equivalent to 20 percent and 3 percent of rice imports and consumption respec-
tively in 1980. The domestic market would be able to absorb all project
induced rice production.
7.07      Cocoa and Coffee.  Project farmers would sell their cocoa, as dry
cocoa beans, to their respective cooperatives who are licensed buying agents
(LBA) of LPMC which has a monopoly for cocoa exports. The procedure would
be the same for coffee. However, some improvements in the marketing and
pricing arrangements for both cocoa and coffee are required. There is a
need to improve cocoa quality in order to maximize overseas sales returns,
and LPMC should switch from purchasing (via its LBAs) clean coffee to purchas-
ing cherry coffee (unhulled coffee). For cocoa a premium for high quality,
possibly through purchasing two or three quality grades, as in other West
African countries, would appear a feasible solution. In the case of coffee
much labor is employed in converting cherry coffee to clean coffee 2/ through
tedious hand processing techniques. The return for such labor is very low,
despite a substantial price differential, since the conversion ratio, clean
coffee: cherry is 55 percent by machine, and only 50 percent by hand pounding.
It would be more rewarding for both grower and the economy if the misleadingly
favorable premium for clean coffee was reduced to encourage cherry sales.
LPMC owns and operates sufficient coffee hulling capacity at Voinjama to
accept in the form of cherry coffee all coffee purchases in the project area,
including production induced by the project. During negotiations, GOL agreed
that consultants to be employed for the review of LPMC marketing policies
and practices (see para 7.09) would also be required to make recommendations
for the introduction of cocoa grading scheme and a price differential scheme
for both coffee and cocoa.
7.08      Producer prices currently paid by LPMC are cocoa US$0.79/kg and
cherry coffee US$0.33/kg (equivalent to US$0.66/kg of clean coffee). These
prices compare favorably with producer prices paid by other West African
producers of these commodities, e.g. for cocoa, Ghana US$0.48/kg, Ivory Coast
US$0.84/kg; and for clean coffee, Ivory Coast US$0.72/kg. They are also
sufficient to attract cocoa and coffee from Guinea and Sierra Leone. Producer
prices, however, constitute only a relatively low proportion--generally in the
range of 50-60 percent--of their FOB value; at times of high prices, e.g. for
cocoa in the first quarter of 1974 the proportion has been very much lower.
Many countries, such as Ivory Coast and Ghana, operate produce marketing
boards or stabilization funds that through fixing producer prices below
market values inter alia function as a means of taxing tree crop farmers.
Such activity may be, and often is, in the public interest. In the case of
1/   Equivalent to 10,900 tons paddy at 67 percent outturn.
2/   See Annex 8, para 9.



- 31 -
LPMC, however, the private partner (see para 2.10) benefits to 50 percent of
surpluses accruing to LPMC above certain statutory expenses. Briefly the
system is that under its statutes LPMC deducts from the FOB value of its
agricultural exports 8 percent as profit (4 percent to the Government and 4
percent to the private partner); 5 percent, which it retains in a price
stabilization fund but which it can use for purposes approved by its board;
and an additional 7 percent which is deducted as an agricultural development
levy and used for a variety of purposes, see para 2.10. Of the balance of
80 percent of FOB value the producer receives the official producer price and
the remainder accrues to LPMC to cover its marketing costs; anything additional
to this is a further profit on which dividends may be paid. As a commercial
entity LPMC generally attempts to fix producer prices to maximize purchases;
an incentive to do this is that the private partner is also the overseas
marketing agent for LPMC and obtains a 2 percent selling commission for this
work. On the other hand as LPMC has a monopoly for cocoa and coffee marketing
and fixes the producer prices for these commodities there is the danger that
in the absence of any statutory control over LPMC marketing expenses,
marketing inefficiencies will develop that will be met at the expense of the
producer. There is also the danger that stabilization funds will be employed
for purposes, which while worthwhile and in the general economic interest,
could mean that LPMC would have liquidity problems at a time of need to
support prices, again to the disadvantage of the producers.
7.09      In recognition of the dangers inherent in the present LPMC system,
during negotiations Government agreed in principle that LPMC statutes and
procedures would be changed in such a way to (a) establish annually.a fixed
marketing cost margin for LPMC consistent with efficient marketing procedures,
(b) establish a price stabilization fund that would be separate from other
LPMC accounts and be used only for price stabilization of the commodities
supporting the fund, and (c) establish a price intervention system under which
the producer would receive a minimum of 60 percent of the anticipated medium
term FOB value of the commodity and under which in any single year anticipated
surpluses available over and above the base price would be shared between the
producers and the stabilization fund according to and agreed formula, 1/ and
any deficits incurred by LPMC in paying the agreed price would be made good
by the stabilization fund. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
Government would undertake a study to prepare appropriate new statutes and
regulations for LPMC satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1976. Consultants
would be employed for this purpose with funds from Credit 306-LBR.
7.10      According to Bank's forecasts the world market coffee price will
appreciate from US$1,366/ton FOB Monrovia in 1974 to US$1,903/ton in 1980 at
1975 constant prices, and the world market cocoa price will decline from
1/   In many countries the producer's share in a single year is limited to
a 10 Dercent increase over the price paid in the previous year.



- 32 -
US$1,944/ton to US$1,260/ton over the same period. The 1980 prices are used
in project economic calculations. With these prices, and assuming that under
the new pricing arrangements farmers would receive an average of 67 percent of
the FOB value of their produce less 10 percent due to marketing inefficiencies
(para 7.04), farmgate producer prices in 1980 would be US$1.03 and US$0.69/kg
for coffee and cocoa respectively. The relationships between world, FOB
Monrovia and farmgate prices for coffee and cocoa are detailed in Annex 8,
Table 5.
7.11      Annual project induced cocoa and coffee production at full maturity
in 1985 would amount to 1,600 tons and 2,500 tons respectively. These outputs
would result in substantial proportional increases in exports of the two
commodities, 48 percent over 1973/74 cocoa exports, and a 67 percent increase
in the case of coffee. By worlk trade standards the increments in production
are very small, 0.1 percent of expected 1985 world trade in cocoa and 0.05
percent of expected world trade in coffee in the same year. While Liberia is
a member of the International Coffee Organization but not of the Inter-
national Cocoa Organization, both have been informed of the scope of this
project and have profered no objection to its being implemented.
C. Farmer Benefits
7.12      The project through its comprehensive support services including
farm inputs, credit, and marketing will enable the 8,000 participating farmers
to increase both the area under cultivation and crop yields. These improve-
ments will bring substantial direct benefits both in the return on the
farmer's investment and on his family labor. Crop budgets are summarised
below and indicate on a per hectare basis for the three crops, the benefits
of improved technology over traditional practices.



- 33 -
Summarized Crop Budgets
Without Development        With Development        Incremental
Net Return /1             Net Return /1        Net Return
$/ha       $/manday        $/ha      $/manday          $/ha
Upland Rice    210            1.00       305(45%)   1.40(40%)          95
Swamp Rice
(Single
cropped)
Rehabilitated  316            1.50       650(105%)  2.50(67%)         334
New              -             -         650         2.50             650
Swamp Rice
(Double
cropped)
Rehabilitated  573            1.60      1159(102%)  2.50(56%)         586
New              -             -        1159         2.50            1159
Coffee
Rehabilitated  283           3.80        562(99%)   4.10( 8%)         279
New              -             -         870         5.90             870
Cocoa
Rehabilitated  188           3.80        390(107%)  4.30(13%)         202
New              -            -          557         4.60             557
Note: Figures in parenthesis show increase over without project situation.
/1   Net return after debt servicing.
7.13      Whilst no attempt has been made to produce a typical farm budget,
since farm sizes, crop combinations and land ownership patterns are diverse
and unidentified; illustrative crop budgets (1 hectare) have been produced
for upland rice, swamp rice, coffee and cocoa (see Annex 4) to demonstrate
both the economics and the improvements attainable. On the basis of total
project production at full development in 1987, the project is expected to
increase average annual net family income of participating farmers from
US$313 to US$913, equivalent to an increase in per capita income from US$63
to US$182 (including the value of vegetables, fruits and minor crops).
D. Financial Implications to Government
7.14      The financial implications to GOL of implementing the project are
summarized in Annex 9, Table 9. Although cost of US$2,125 per farm family
appears high, partly explained by the coffee and cocoa development costs, it
includes substantial infrastructure and training costs beyond project needs.



- 34 -
7.15      However, after the development period, revenue from indirect taxation
and LPMC dividends accruing to GOL together with the agricultural development
fund levy arising from project production (see para 7.08) would finance the
full cost of extension and cooperative/credit services, and from 1987 there
would be an annual surplus of about US$0.7 million before IDA Credit servic-
ing.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JIJSTIFICATION
8.01      Direct benefits from the project would be incremental production of
7,300 tons of rice; 1/ 2,500 tons of coffee and 1,600 tons of cocoa annually
at full maturity from 1985 onwards, which would result in increased income for
8,000 families. Living standards for the remaining population in the project
area would be improved through social infrastructure and marketing arrange-
ments.
8.02      Project rice production would be consumed internally, coffee and
cocoa being exported. The gross foreign exchange savings/earnings arising
from rice import substitution and additional exports is estimated at US$9.3
million based on the Bank's 1985 price forecasts in constant 1975 terms 2/ of
US$400/ton for rice, US$1,800/ton for coffee; and US$1,200/ton for cocoa.
8.03      The project will bring about a substantial mobilization of labor
resources in the area, particularly the seasonally unemployed. It is estimated
that during the project implementation period, 2.6 million mandays of
employment will be created. In addition, the project will create additional
employment opportunities in the agricultural industries and services sector,
as well as in transportation and construction.
8.04      Apart from these direct benefits to participating farmers, the
project would have important secondary benefits, largely unquantifiable, for
the community from improved roads, banking, education and health facilities,
including improved drinking water supplies. The project would also strengthen
MA's technical capability in agriculture, cooperative/credit extension, agri-
cultural research, and agricultural project management for further agricultural
development.
8.05      The economic rate of return (ERR) based on incremental costs and
incremental benefits is estimated at 25.9 percent. The main assumptions in
estimating the cost and benefit streams are described in Annex 10.
8.06      Risk and Sensitivity.  The project is subject to the risk that the
estimated benefits might not be fully attained because of four factors.
1/   Equivalent to 67 percent of 10,900 tons paddy.
2/   FOB Monrovia equivalents.



- 35 -
First it would be the first project of its type in Liberia and will require
degrees of coordination and cooperation within and between GOL agencies that
has not been practiced in the past. It appears inevitable therefore that
problems of coordination and demarcation of responsibilities will arise
which could result in delays in project implementation. The likelihood of
serious delays is lessened, however, in the light of GOL commitment to make
the project function efficiently through the appointment of three key project
staff members prior to credit effectiveness; early formation of a ministerial
project steering committee responsible for policy matters; establishment
of a project advisory committee in the project area to maintain communication
between GOL, local tribal authorities and farmers representatives; and a
specific allocation of funds in the MA's annual budget to cover project local
costs. Second, this will be the first exposure of project participants to
a relative intensive form of development, and thus the extent of their re-
sponse cannot be forecasted accurately, this leaves some question concerning
the degree of accuracy of the production assumptions in terms of both area
and yields employed in the report calculations. Fortunately, the project
area is only some 150 km from a similar project financed by the Bank Group
in Sierra Leone (Integrated Agricultural Development Project - Credit 323-SL),
where farmer response has been excellent. As the people of the project area
are of the same ethnic group as those participating in the Sierra Leone
project and have similar customs and traditions, it appears likely that
a similar strategy response would be obtained under the project. Third,
while yield data on rice, both upland and swamp, are good and substantiated
in particular by experience in the Sierra Leone project, those on coffee
and cocoa are less firm. This is because there is no existing detailed
experience in Liberia or its immediate neighbors of the yield performance
of those crops under the type of management that would be provided under
the project. The yields employed in report calculations are those generally
accepted by authorities, but given the long life of these plantings (cocoa
may produce for more than 50 years), they are susceptible to error. Fourth,
in project economic calculations a shadow rate of labor is employed, 50
percent of the estimated market wage - Annex 10. Should the Wologisi mine
be opened, the opportunity cost of labor would change. Whilst the extent
of such a rise is unknown, its magnitude would be influenced by the volume
of experienced labor which would transfer to Wologisi from the Bomi mine
which is due to close in the near future. Additionally, it is anticipated
that loss of local labor to Wologisi mine would be replaced by migrant labor
from neighboring Sierra Leone and Guinea. Such labor is presently available
as there are no immigration restrictions, but its use has been restricted
by lack of cash for payment of wages.
8.07      Sensitivity tests have been used to test the potential impact,
singly and Jointly of some of the above possible adverse factors. The
factors employed are an overall delay in project benefits by 2 years, de-
creases by 10 percent and 20 percent in project benefits, 10 percent and
20 percent increase in project costs, employment of the estimated market
wage for labor rather than the shadow rate, and project life shorter than



- 36 -
30 years used in the statistical calculations to take account of possible
errors in forecasting crop yields, and are detailed in Annex 10, Table 3.
ERR decreases from.25.9 percent to 12.1 percent should the following adverse
factors occur together; labor costed at estimated market wage of US$1.00,
costs increased by 10 percent, and benefits decreased by 10 percent and
delaved by two years. The ERR is not sensitive to a reduction in project
life by 5 years.
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHIET)D ITII THE BORRONWER
9.01      I)uring negotiations it was agreed that retroactive financing of
up to US$100,000 would be available for the employment of the project manager,
the training and development controller, and the agricultural manager. Such
financing would apply from June 1, 1975.
9.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOL that:
(a)  the GOL existing special rice and tree crop development
areas in Lofa County would be excluded from the project,
and AGRIMECO, with limited exceptions, would not undertake
any new land clearing in the project area after December 31,
1975 and during the project disbursement period (para 2.08 -
CA Section 5.01 (a)); 1/
(b)  MA and LPMGC would establish charges for land developed in
the project area by AGRIMECO and credit terms for farm
inputs, consistent with project charges and credit terms
(para 2.08 - CA Section 5.01 (b));
(c)  LBDI would establish a branch at Voinjama within six months
of credit effectiveness to provide normal banking services,
and to administer the project revolving credit fund (para
2.11 - CA Section 4.05 (g));
(d)  sufficient funds and equipment would he allocated to MP1lW
Lofa County to carry out the road program (para 4.12 -
CA Section 5.04);
(e)  satisfactory procedures would be established for quarterly
advance replenishment of PMU bank account for local
expenditures (para 5.15 - CA Section 4.03 (b));
1/   Paragraph references are to Appraisal Report, CA to Credit Agreement.



- 37 -
(f) annual accounts of the project and of the revolving credit
fund, audited by external auditors satisfactory to IDA,
would be submitted to IDA within four months of the financial
year end (paras 5.16 and 5.18 - CA Sections 4.02 (d) and
4.05 (f));
(g) LPMC would relinquish extension responsibility for coffee
and cocoa in the project area, with the exception of the
AGRIMECO cleared areas, and would transfer surplus extension
staff to PMU, within six months of effectiveness (para 6.02-
CA Section 5.03 (a));
(h) project commercial manager would be designated assistant
registrar of cooperatives for audit of project farmer
cooperatives (paras 6.03 and 5.17 - CA Sections 4.04 (a)
and (b));
(i) the project manager, deputy project manager, training and
development controller, agricultural manager, finance
manager, administrative manager, land planning officer,
evaluation and planning officer would be appointed with
qualification and terms acceptable to IDA (para 6.04 -
CA Section 3.06 (b));
(j) a project steering committee would be established within
three months of effectiveness (para 6.05 - CA Section
3.07);
(k) GOL would enter into discussions with IDA, within 6 months
of submission of consultants' report on MA reorganization,
for implementation of this and other development projects
(para 6.09 - CA Section 5.02);
(1) farm loans and credits would be limited to a maximum of
US$1,000 per farm family (para 6.16 - CA Schedule 4 para
4 (d));
(m)  a revolving credit fund would be established in accordance
with an agreement to be entered into between GOL and LBDI,
satisfactory to IDA, by September 30, 1975 (para 6.19 -
CA Section 4.05 (a));
(n) new produce pricing statutes and regulations for LPMC would
be established by December 31, 1976 (para 7.09 - CA Section
5.03 (b)).
9.03      During negotiations it was agreed with GOL that the conditions of
effectiveness of the credit would be that:



- 38 -
(a) the USAID loan of US$5 million to assist the project had
been formally ratified by the governments of both USA
and Liberia and had become effective (CA Section 7.01 (a));
(b) the project manager, training and development controller,
and agricultural manager had been appointed (para 6.04 -
CA Section 7.01 (b));
(c)  GOL had established a special PMU bank account with either
LBDI or an established commercial bank with an initial
payment of US$100,000 (para 5.15 - CA Section 7.01 (c)).
9.04      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6 million to Government of Liberia.



ANiiEX 1
Page 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTRY RURAL DEVELOPK&iET PROJECT
AGRICULTURE
A. Climate, Water and Soils
1.        Introduction.  The project area is principally located in the
northern most part of Liberia, the so-called Upper Lofa area, administrat-
ively part of Lofa County. It is bordered by Sierra Leone to the west and
by the Republic of Guinea to the north, and east; the southern limit is
the borderline of the high rain forest that stretches far to the south,
covering the largest part of Liberia. Southeast of Voinjama separated by
a 30 kin-wide mountain range lies another part of the project area of which
ZorZor is the most important town. Eleven clans (approximately 90,000
people) live in the project area where population density is estimated at
about 22 per sq kilometer. Assuming that farm population is 75% and each
farm holding consists of 5 persons, the number of farm holdings is some
13,500.
2.        Rainfall.  Annual rainfall averages 2,500 mm, there is one rainy
season from April/May until November, during which precipitation reaches
about 2,300 mm or 90% of total annual rainfall (Table 1). August is on
average the wettest (411 mm) and January the driest (13 mm) month. The
sliding average annual rainfall figures over 5-year periods since 1953
show that annual rainfall in Voinjama is diminishing during the last
decade. In particular the last 5 years (1969-1973) annual rainfall has
been some 25% below normal.
3.        Temperature.  Average monthly temperature oscillate only
slightly around 2h4C. The daily temperatures however, could differ
significantly, such as an absolute minimum of 5C in January and an abso-
lute maximum of 37C in February. Average monthly temperatures, recorded
over a period of 21 years in Voinjama are as follows (C):
J    F    M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D   Average
24.5 24.6 2h.3 2h.5 24.2 24.0 23.8 23.7 2h.0 24.3 24.4 24.3   24.2
Dry winds from the North-East (Harmattans) are a general phenomenon in the
project area. These winds are cold in the winter in the North and warm in
summer.
4.        Surface Water.  Three major rivers (Makona, Zeliba and Lofa
River) drain the project area in south-westerly directions. The water-
sheds of these rivers are intersected with numerous perennial and ephemeral



ANINEX
Page 2
streams.  The bottom land of these streams, permanently or temporarily
waterlogged, form the swamps. No data on discharge and water levels
of the major rivers and perennial streams are available and it is there-
fore not possible to determine the quantity of water, that could be used
for irrigation. Water for rice growing in the swamp during the rainy
season is reasonably secured, but during the dry season the swamps rely
on direct run-off fromr the catchiment area which occurs with a certain time
lag after the rains have stopped. This type of water supply mray become
very low or decrease to practically zero from January through April. The
increasing intensity of shifting cultivation and shorter periods of fallow,
would cause run-off rate during the wet and dry season to increase and
less water for swamp rice growing would become available for shorter
periods. Based on a rough estimation, 1 ha of double cropped rice needs
at least 5 ha of well preserved watershed. With diminishing annual rain-
fall and continuing clearing of forest land for shifting cultivation, it
is obvious that less land would be available for double cropping of rice.
Since for practical reasons it would be impossible to forbid shifting
cultivation in the watershed areas of swamps, the only way to preserve
forest land and maintain a reliable water supply is to show the rural
population the advantages of a more permanent cropping system, whereby
irrigated rice in swamp areas and upland tree crop growing could play a
key role. The project area has not sufficient ground water for
irrigation purposes.
Soils
5.        The Dissected Lateritic Plateau.  The project area is located
on an average altitude of approximately 700 m above sea level and consists
for the greater part of a dissected lateritic plateau with low rounded
hills and valley bottoms with alluvial terraces. Also high hills exeeding
800 in frequently occur as steep, pointed hills under a thick forest or as
-cunded monarocks.  A very small part of the project area is occupied by
mountains belonging to the lower parts of the Wologisi range.  Of import-
ance for agricultural purposes is only the lateritic plateau. The valley
bottoms generally consist of deep soils with a light sandy loam topsoil.
Drainage conditions vary from noderately good to very poor with a high
water holding capacity and a moderate to low fertility. These soils are
very suitable for wet rice growing but ir general not to be recommended
for annual crops, cocoa or cof'ee. When drainage conditions can be im-
proved by a drainage system, the cultivation of a second crop on residual
water after the rice harvest maybe possible. The project area has about
16,000 ha of valley bottom soils of which about 12,000 ha is suitable for
mechanical cultivation methods..
6.        The almost flat and umdulating part of the lateritic plateau
has a large variety of soil characteristics, that makes an additional soil
survey necessary, to advise farmers with regard to their specific wishes
on crops and crop rotations. -n global terms however, two major soil
units can be distinguished, such as an 14,500 ha area of soils belonging
to the Foya series and a cormparable large area with soils of the Weledu
series. Soils of the Foya series are mainly located in the western and



AilFX ?
Page 3
southern part of the project area, with Foya as the mriajor village. They
are deep, though the top soils are genera'ly thin over lateritic gravel.
Water holding capacity and fertility are moderate.  Suitability for annual
crop production is moderate and for cocoa and coffee growing poor; irri-
gated rice cultivation cannrot be recommerded.  The Weledu soils occur
especially in the eastern part of the project area and oftern intergrades
towards Foya soils. They generally have a lower gravel content, a thicker
top soil and offer good possibilities for cocoa and coffee, and also for
a wide variety of annual crops except irrigated rice.
a.  Crops and Cropping Practices
7.       Introduction.  The project area has tne potential for growing a
large variety of annual and perennial crops. At present, only traditional
agriculture is practiced, predominantly for subsistence (rice and veget-,
ables) with some tree crops for cash (fruits, cocoa, coffee and oil palm).
Productivity of both land and labor is low. Annual crops are mainly grown
on basis of shifting cultivation; seeds and seedlings are of an inferior
quality; and neither fertilizers nor agricultural chemicals are used. The
major crops are rice, cocoa and coffee.
Farm Sizes and Cropping Patterns
S.          According to the Agricultural Census of 1971 nearly 91% of the
holdings in the project area were below 4 ha but accounted for only 46% of
the total farmed area. The average farm size is about 1.1 ha and nearly
54% of the cropped land is vested in 9.4% of holdings with an average of
about 13 ha. This indicates extreme skewness in farm size distribution.
9.          The cropping pattern of project area farms shows considerable
variation. The 1971 census reported eight different field crops and eleven
tree crops in the area. Available data indicates the following cropping
patterns expressed as a pereentage of all holdings governing these crops:
upland rice: 88%, corn: 35%, coffee: 32%, cola nut: 30%, cocoa: 21%,
mango: 13%, banana: 9%, cassava: 7%, orange: 5%, broad beans: 5%, swamp
rice: 4%, sugar cane: 3%, plaintain - avocado - oil palm - pineapple: 2%,
okra: 1%.
10.         This does not indicate a typical cropping pattern but some
conclusions can be drawn from the distribution of important crops by farm
size (see Table 14). Both swamp rice and upland rice are concentrated in
small holdings: 87% *.f the total swamp rice areas and 83% of the upland
rice areas are cultivated in holdings between 1-4 ha. Production of the
other two staples, corn and cassava, are also predominantly grown by the
smallholders. Conversely, cocoa and coffee production are concentrated
on holdings above 5 ha, which reflects the limited resources of small farmers
who cannot afford the high establishment costs and maintenance to maturity.



ALiLIEX 1
Pageh4
IJpland ?ice
11.       According to -the 11gricultural Census 1171, practically uL_  farm
holdings grow rainfed upland rice to feed the family.  The farming year
in upland rice starts early in the dry season, with bush felling and
burning; following the 'ournn.E, smaller branc}hes. and trunks are cut,
stacked together and reburned.  1Jhnen the first rains suart, the ground is
lightly tilled (scratched) with a hand hoe and the seed broadcast
(35 kg/ha); this is often a ccoperative activity or-ganized by t,he women
of the community.  Nearly all upland rice fields are intec 'fopped with,
vegetables such as cassava, maize, sorghum, pepper, blitterba11, beans,
plaintains, etc., as cash crcps and/or additional nutrientsr, Bd scar-
ing takes place in the first few weeks after seeding and tl'ne 'ast six >c
eight weeks before harvest.  After scwing, fences generally made of wood
are erected around tuhe fields tio protect+ the crop from grcund hcgs
(Thryonomys swinderianus).  Hiand weeding takes place four to six weeks
after planting and the crop is harvested four to five months after sowing.
The rice is harvested by cutting each panicle separately.  Since no ferti-
lizers or chemicals are used, yields are relatively low, averaging 1000 kg/ha.
The varieties used have a low photoperiod sensitivity and are highly re-
sistant to Blast (Pyricularia oryzae). The project area is estimated to
have approximately 7,300 ha of upland rice.
12.       Under the project, the extension services would promote a
minimum package consisting of better quality LAC 23 seed (50 kg/ha) and
fertilizer (100 kg/ha of the compound fertillzer 20-w-20--0). Farmers would
be allowed to purchase the inputs on credit, with repayment against sale
of paddy. It is anticipated that average yields would increase from
1,000 kg/ha to 1,700 kg/ha, on a total area of 5,600 ha under these recom-
mended inputs.  The rate of acceptance of the minimum package would be as
follows:
Year                    1     2        3       4        5    Total
Improved Area (ha)      15o   650@  1,200   1,600   2,000    5,600
Number of Farmers       200   930   1,710   2,300   2,860    8,000
Swamp Rice
13.       Cultivation practices for swamp rice are basically the same as
for upland rice. Traditional swamps are often cropped semi-ccntinuously
with a fallow year, every three to five years.  During the dry season,
the swamp is drained by opening a drainage ditch, and small trees and
undergrowth are removed; sprouted rice seed is then sown ontc -,he rough
surface of the swamp. Where deep water is encountered, rice may be
transplanted from nurseries; young seedlings often stay in the nurseries
as long as 12 weeks when no labor is available for transplanting. Water



ANNEX 1
Page 5
necessary to grow rice in the swamp is supplied by rain on tihe swamp ifself
and by run-off from the upstream catchment area. The major problem is to
pre-saturate the fields early in May, when rain, and consequently run-off
may not yet be significant. Another important aspect is the nmaximura dis-
charge of the run-off that may occur after heavy and high intensity rain-
fall, and that may cause flooding of the rice for some days with the con-
sequent of highly reduced yields. Under the project, excessive flooding
would be avoided by a peripheral main drain so as to diminsh crop losses.
Field bunds with simple inlets would make some degree of water control on
the fields possible and together with some field levelling would cause
uniform ripening of the crop. After the harvest of the first crop, the
field bunds would retain the run-off from the catchment area which still
occurs with a certain time lag after the rains have stopped; this run-off
water could then more efficiently be used for the second crop.   Little
information on yields is available; but from scanty data, average yields
may be estimated at about 1,500 kg/ha. The only input is 35 kg/ha of
seed. The percent total area under swamp rice in the project area is
estimated at about 650 ha.
1]4.      Of the farmers who would accept improved practices, some would
only rehabilitate their existing swamp rice area by accepting the minimum
package (IR 5 or IR 20 seed: 50 kg/ha and 200 kg/ha compounded fertilizer
20-20-0); others would use the minimum package and also start reclaiming
new areas. The swamp rice farmers adopting the recommended practices most
likely would be farmers who have already accepted the minimum package for
upland rice (para 3), and have experienced its advantages. Average yields
would increase to 3,500 kg/ha at full development against 1,500 kg/ha at
present (after 5 years for improved land and after 6 years for new land.. 20%
of the swamps improved and developed would be irrigated for two crops per
year. The expected rate of development would be as follows:
Year                          1       2       3       X        5       Total
Rehabilitated Area (ha)      50      50    100      150     150          500
Newly Reclaimed Area (ha)    -    150    250        4oo     6oo       1240o
Total                   50    200    350       550     750        1,900
Coffee
15 .      Coffee is planted on about 30% of all agricultural holdings.  It
is more widespread in the project area than cocoa and, in general, con-
ditions are suitable for coffee growing. The main variety is Canephora,
which was planted around the 1930s. Farms larger than 5 ha account for 201
of all coffee holdings and some 70% of the total coffee area. All farms
are generally badly laid out (irregular and small planting distances), and
badly maintained. There is almost no pruning; no fertilizer is used;
weeding takes place once a year before harvest; and harvesting is done
only once in the season by stripping all cherries -- ripe and unripe -- at
the same time. Fortunately, there are no serious coffee diseases. The
total coffee area is estimated at some X,000 ha.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
16.        Under the project, about 1C5 of the existing coffee plantings
wrould be rehabilitated, through replacement of non-producing trees, and
spacing improvements by pruning, the use of fertilizers and intensive
weeding.  For newly planted areas, the robusta seedlings -- raised at
LPMC nurseries from seed imports from the Ivory Coast -- will only be
made available to farmers after an acceptable soil survey followed by
land clearing, shade and mulch (gliricidia) planted, and plant holes dug
correctly.  On completion or the preparatory work, the farmer would
receive seedlings and fertilizers, 1/ distributed as one package. The
average yield of 280 kg/ha (clean ooffee) would increase tc an estimated
700 kg/ha at full production .5 years later; new areas planted with the
new robusta seedlings would average, at full production 1,000 kg/ha
6 years after planting. The rehabilitation and replanting program would
be as follows:
Year                              1      2     3      4       5        Total
Rehabilitated (ha)               %0   8o   1o00   120    loC             50C
Newly Planted (ha)                -   500   500    600    700          2,300
Total                       50   580   600    720    850         2,800
Cocoa
17.        According to the Agricultural Census of 1971, only about 20% of
all agricultural holdings have cocoa plantings, the majority being small
areas. The project area is one of the most important cocoa producers of
Liberia.  Cocoa was established in the early 1950s with the Amelonado
variety.  Since 1970, when several important roads were constructed, cocoa
cultivation has received a new impetus; newv plantings have been started
mainly with Amazon hybrid seed imported from the Ivory Coast.  Roughlyr 8ot
of 'he cocoa in the project area are planted on holdings larger than 5 ha,
on a relatively small number of farms.  Cultivation methods are poor and
yvields are low. Additionally, sub-standard seedlings and unsuitable soils
woree planted.  Cocoa pests and diseases are prevalent; in particular, the
irseets Sahlbergella singu'aris and Helopeltis cause great damage; and
black ood disease, caused by the fungus Phytophtora palmivora, is ccmmon
as maintenance practices, such as shade regularion, weeding and spraying
are almosT nonexistent.  Average yields are estimated at 280 kg/ha dried
cocoa beans.  There is no fermentation or grading system for cocoa and,
at present, all cocoa in Liberia is sold as "fair average" quality.  An
estimated 4,000 ha is planted to cocoa in the project area.
18.        Under the project, better quality seedLlings TiTould be distributed
through the extensicn services which  would advise farmers wishing to re-
rabilitate their farms.  lew planting material would only boe provided to
farmets after an acceptable soil survey and the farmer had sholwr an interest
by i,eeding his field, thinning out the existing stands, and restoring the
necessary shade. The farmer would be supplied with other inputs at the
va,mc time:as the seedlings, namely: fertilizers 2/for the -young seedlings
and temporary shade, a sprayer, and agricultural chemicals for disease con
trol. 3/ After the extension agent has judged his soil to be suitable, the
7Aut a- rate of100 !- 'ha urea in the second year; 150 kg/ha urea in the
third; and 4C0o kg/NPK (20-20-0) from the fourth year onwards.
2/ Compound fertilizer (12-12-17-5) for the .first    ears of new plantings.
,/ Mostly copper oxide  ungici es, used agains    a   poa.



pace 7
farrner should                    thcorc;ush, p  r-, the temcporary shade, and di- nlan-- holes
b;efore the seedclings are delivered to 'rir.  Averafe yields cf rehabilitated
cocoa plarntinas wocuicq inicrease frcm  281 kg/ha tc 600 kg/ha at full nrc-
duction in 2 vears; and for newly planted areas, to   650 kg/ha 6 years
after plantingJ. The rehabilitation and replanting program would develop
as follows:
Year                   1               3        4                Total
'ehabilitated (ha)   50      100    150       200      300         803
NTewly Plant,ed (ha)    -     300    300      400      500       L,00
Total            50     4oo    45o      6oo       Boo      2,300
19.         The extension workers would teach farmers better processing
methods and LPMC would introduce a grading system with clear price differ-
entials for better quality cocoa. Though no quantifiable benefits are
expected during the project period, this would give farmers an incentive
to improve processing procedures.
Labor Availability and Use
20.         According to available information the average number of persons
per holding is 5.1 and the equivalent labor 1.2. However, the figures are
higher for holdings below 4 ha, 5.2 and 2.0 respectively. (See Table 15).
According to 1971 census, only 1.5% of the farmers with less than 4 ha and
21% with more than 5 ha employed hired labor. On this basis future labor
availability for participating farmers has been assessed at 2.0 per holding.
Since existing minor crops will continue to be produced, it is estimated
that only 75% of the 300 available working days per year will be used for
proposed project activities. The seasonal nature of agricultural activities
results in two clearly identifiable peaks in the demand for farm laborers:
from mid-March to the second half of July and mid-October to the second half
of  December (see Table 16).  It is likely that during the rest of the year
there is excess labor available. Within these constraints it is estimated
that in allocating the available 450 mandays (300 x 75 x 2), for a holding
of less than 4 ha, a farmer will give priority to production of upland
rice (222 mandays), which is his staple, using the remainder for swamp
development and/or tree crop cultivation. The exact crop mix will depend,
however, on socio-economic and institutional factors. It is reasonable
to assume that seasonal labor shortages will not be a great problem as
this can be overcome by using hired labor which should be readily available,
particularly because of the ease of entry by labor from Sierra Leone and
Guinea. Land clearing and land preparation for swamp development requires
substantial amounts of labor within a short period of time, which exceeds
the family labor capacity. Some hired labor is therefore required for which
project provides a development credit. (See Annex 7 ). Additionally,
project includes a special risk allowance of US$0.3 million for mechanized.
land clearing equipment in the event hired labor is not available or the
land clearing work is too arduous.
Crop Yields and Production
21.         Under the project, crop yields and production would develop as
summarized in Tables 2 and 3 of this Annex.



A1NREX 1.
Page b
C. Agricultural Services
1inistry of Agriculture
22.       Agricultural Policies   Within agriculture, Government's main
objectives as described in the Five Year Agricultural Plan (1972-1077)
are to: (i) diversify agricultural output principally by promoting rubber,
cocoa, coffee and palm kernels; (ii) modernize traditional agriculture
which mainly consists of food crops for subsistence; (iii) improve farm
income through higher cash crop production; (iv) naximize national income;
and (v) improve nutrition of the population at lower cost. The primary
emphasis at present is on production objectives.  Some 44% of the Plan
expenditures (US %15.0 million) are allotted to increase rice production.
All efforts to increase rice production have been combined in the "Special
Rice Programs," actually comprising 10 different projects, among which the
Foya Rice Project and the Expanded Rice Project, both located in the
project area.
23.-      The second largest project of the Plan (US $6,7 million) is for
the production of tree crops (rubber, oil palm, coffee, cocoa, coconut,
etc.) for which the Government has requested FAO assistance in identifying
suitable areas and project preparation. The rice as well as the tree crop
programs are nationwide, and criented to a large number of traditional
farmers. However, due to the nature of both the development programs, no
spectacular effects can be expected in the short run.  Production potentials
can be fully exploited only if supporting services and production inputs are
made available, together with a set of measures to increase farmer's in-
centives. Government is now encouraging a balanced development with strong
attention directed to institution building.
24.       Central Organization   The Ministry of Agriculture, headed by a
minister and a deputy minister, is responsible for agriculture, foresury
and fisheries. It is divided into four departments: Administration,
Technical Services, Forestry, and Planning and Evaluation; each department
is headed by an assistant minister. Under the Assistant Minister for
Technical Services are six divisions: Cooperative, Credit and Marketing;
National Extension Services i Agricultural Research, National Livestock
Bureau, Rice Special Projects, and Fisheries and Plant Quarantine Services.
The National Extension Services and Livestock Bureau are represented in
each of the  nine counties in Liberia.  The Ministry is short of trained
staff and is unable to effectively discharge its responsibilities in pclicy
formulation, research, extension, planning, implementation of the agricultural
development plan and investment programi.
25.       Extension Services   Extension Services are generally understaffed
and lack transport facilities. The National Extension Services consists of
about 30C Liberians, Taiwanese rice technicians and farmers, tree crop
volunteers and a small group cf expatriate staff. In 1972, extension work



ANNEX 1
Pagle 9
for rice was reorganized to form the Extended Rice Program and to con-
centrate in Bong, Nimba and Lofa counties.  The Lofa County extension
servicest centered in Voinjama under the C6unty extension agent super-
vising:
-  one assistant county agent, statf-oned at Zorzor;
- two senior extension aides;
-  fourteen extension aides, for general extension work;
- two extension aides, specialized in rice; and
- one female aide for home economics.
There is one veterinary supervisor in Foya and a veterinary aide in
Voinjama. Except for the County Extension Agents who are generally
graduates of the College of Agriculture and Foresty of the University of
Liberia, the majority of the extension aides are of secondary education
standard and have received up to eight months special training at the
Agricultural Extension Training Center at Monrovia, operated by the
Ministry of Agriculture in close collaboration with the College of
Agriculture and Forestry.
26.       Under the project all extension aides would receive additional
training, to be started as early as possible.  Next to both theory and
practice of relevant agricultural and farm management topics, a selected
number of field agents would be chosen to receive further training in
socio-economic subjects including marketing and cccperatives.  All ield
extension assistants would be provided with motorcycles and back up
office facilities. To improve their conditions of service, the assistants
would be given housing and hardship aloowances, etc. The number of
extension assistants is based on a ratio of one to 50 farmers in the first
year, increasing to one to 100 and to 150 farmers in the second and third
years. It would be anticipated that starting in the fourth project year,
a number of extension workers would be. moved to other projects and that
finally this group of better trained extension officers would be the corner-
stone for a more competent National Agricultural Service.
27.       Research   Four organizations are involved in research activities
in Liberia: the Firestone Plantation Company for rnLbber, the Liberian
Agricultural Company doing research on rice and livestock; the Central
Agricultural Experiment Station at Suakoko operated by the Ministry of
Agriculture and concentrating on applied rice research; and the College
of Agriculture and Forestry of the University of Liberia carrying out
applied research on forestry and wood utilization. For the project a-rea,
the Suakoko Station is of utmost importance, as it will provide foundation
seed for upland as well as swamp rice areas. Based on trial results ob-
tained at Suakoko, advice will be given to farmers through the extension
assistants, on fertilizer application, mixed cropping and crop rotation;
pest, disease and weed control; and development of swamp areas and culti-
vation practices. Suakoko wqill also provide training facilities for ex-
tension assistants and maintain demonstration plots to be incorporated in
the demonstration farms under the project.



Page C
F'or uolcy-d ice  he iemecnstration of va Xet, fertilizer
conbanion, the Irn-mum oack2ae under ,he project, should become a major
objective of the extension service, and farmers response to this minim-un
packawe should be amplified by means of an effective distribution system.
1-th the de-velcpment of LAO 23, varietal improvement has been proven to be
a realit- and both introduction and hybridization should be continued to
obtain uc'and ri ce varieties that consistantly produce more than LAC 23
*.nder farm conditions, and has a high and st'able resistance to local
races of Pyricularia oryzae, blast disease.  Also a range of maturation
periods from 100 to 140 days is needed for flexibility in seeding and
harvest, a moderate height tgo restrict rat damage and ease harvesting, a
tolerance to low phosphorus soils, and good cooking and storing qualities
would enhance consumers acceptance. As with upland rice, blast resistance
is a major objective for swamp, rainfed and irrigated rice, as well as
resistance to iron toxicity, and early varieties (100 - 110 days) to in-
crease the possibility of a universal application and of a higher croppJmg
intensity for farmers.
29.       With the exception of rubber, research on tree crops like cocoa
ana coffee has not received much attention.  Shnce the project area is
one of the major producers of cocoa and coffee in Liberia it is obvious
that systematic applied research should be set up in the project area.
Under the  project no specific financing is anticipated for this type of
research, but the possibility to start well managed seed gardens and
nurseries could be considered as a first step in the right direction..
Under the rehabilitation and new planting program of the project, a few
progressive farmers would be selected for their farms to be improved as
demonstration farms.  ilere, simple trials on cultivation practices would
be carried out and temporary expert assistance (totalling about 14 man
months) would be provided to control occurring pests or diseases, advise
on pruning and shade control and in general to keep the quality of the farm
on a high level. W-lhen used as nurseries, these demonstration farms could
very .-ell function as the central points for a systematic plan cf cocoa
and coffee improvement in Upper Lofa.
30.       Seed Multiplication   The project will provide better quality
rice seed  LAC 23 for upland rice and IR 5 o  IR 20 for swamp rice), as
well as seedlings for cocoa and coffee plantings. For rice, CAES
Suakoko would provide foundation seed tc multiplication farms through P?U.
No seed multiplication facilities are now available in the project area,
but the National Seed Association (NSA) a private agency only recently
established in Foya, hascquired 3 ha bottom land and 13 ha upland areas
for multiplication of foundation seed. Technical supervision at NSA is
carried out by a project manager, and four field assistants trained at
Suakoko for this purpose. Selected farmers, all memboers of local coopera-
tives undertake multiplication work, for which they are provided with the
necessary inputs such as foundation seed, fertilizers and insecticides.
The cooperatives purchase the better quality seed (registered seed) from
the multiplication farms for 28.5 //kg and sell it to farmers for 29.56//kg.
GOL regulates the price of seed to farmers; presently the price is 33//kg
for untreated and 35//kg for treated seed.
31.        Under the project, PIMU wv-ould collaborate with NLA but would also
set up its cwn system of selected and supervised farmers for multiplication



AN1s EX 1-
Page il
of foundation seed, to assure project registered seed requirements.
These farms could act as demonstration farms and would then be the focal
point for further development of the project area. Based on a recommended
seed rate of 50 ka/ha provided every fifth year to upland farmers and
every year for the swamp rice farmers the seed requirements in tons are:
PY       1         2        3         4          5
LAC 23                  7.5      32.5     60.3      80.0     100.0
iR 5/n-20               3.0     12.0      21.0      33.0      45.0
Assuming a yield of 2,000 kg/ha for LAC 23 and 3,000 kg/ha for
IR5/IR20, of seed ready for distribution and only one crop per year, the
corresponding hectares for seed multiplication would be:
PY       11        2        3         It         5
LAC 23                  3.8      16.3     30.0      40.0       5c.o
L; 5/IR 20              1.0       4.o      7.0      11.0      15.0
32.       Cocoa and coffee seedlings for the project area are raised in
nurseries from _ed impi.;:ted from Ivory Coast and distributed by LPMC,
who also buys the produce from farmers, processes and sells it for export.
LPMC 's Program for Cocoa and Coffee for 1975 comprises the purchase
from the Ivory Coast of 500 kg coffee seeds at 1,200 CFAF/k- and 75,000
cocoa pods at 60 CFAF/kg, which is approximately equivalent to 1,000 ha
new coffee and 2,000 ha new cocoa plantings. The general complaint is that
the delivered material is of low quality and often delayed.  Since the
establishment of a PIJU nursery would require about 5 years before sufficient
material would be available for distribution it is anticipated that under
the project most nursery seed would continue to come from IFCC in the Ivory
Coast, which has basically good material and which has recently extended its
seed gardens Jo meet the rising demand for good nursery material.  The
project would enter lnto a contract with LP'IC for the supply of seedlings,
but would safeguard itself against insufficient or untimely supply by
L?iIC b, establishing its omn nurseries.  The following seedlings require-
ments would be anticipated under the project, to be purchased at the
estimated price cf 25/ per seedling for cocoa and 30/ for coffee
(Tables 1 and 2).
py       1         2        3         45
-       --  urber of Seedlings ('000)---
Cocoa                  1C.0    581.0    591.0    788.0       994.0
Coffee                  8.c    826.o    829.0    99go5.0   1,)162.0
The above requi-rements a-2p based on nursery and lield losses
.otallin  205 and or a rlanting cdensity cf I,500 plant/ha for cocoa and
1.3G0 for ccffee.
33.       Sw!amp, Reclamation and Tractor Services   Next to a higher yield
Der cultivated area, the prcject w+ll bring additional land under cultiva-
tion.  The rate of recl1amation of smaller swl!amps by farmers in the project



-   D  -,\  
area has been extremely s0ow7 some 60 ha, during the last years.
Reasons for this slow adoption of we' rice cul tivati on are according t-
the Farm Survey in 1971/72:  social, technical and economic.  Traditicnally
swarip rice is considered to be the work for women; farmers f-nd it diffi-
cult to arrange for a sufficient number cf workers; work is laborious and
unpleasant and is zaid to cause diseases not occurring on the uplands;
finally, upland rice offers a very profitable possibility of intercropping
vegetables, that swamp rice does not provide. A number of these con-
straints to swamp rice development could be offset by making credit
available to facilitate the use of seasonal hired labor and mcdern inputs,
like better seeds and fertilizers. Also extension services should
emphasize the more reliable and higher rice yields and the possibility
of a short growing vegetable or cash crop on residual water.  More
important, however, is the cpportunity for farmers to have the back break-
ing and labor consuming first land reclamation done, with the help of
small mechanical means like wheel tractors, hand and tractor winches and
roto tillers, for the first land preparation and levelling.
34.       Project management would keep close contact with Sua`U&uo, tch re
trials are being performed by the farm mechanization specialist and where
the rice agronomist is developing varieties more suitable to the local
swamp conditions and is experimenting with crop rotation, with cash crop
growing nexjit tJo or instead of rice in swamps.  Extension workers would be
assigned for swamp development and be trained at Suakoko to gain experience
in mechanical swamp reclamation and particular cultivation practices.
Project management would have one or two wheel tractors available together
with some motor and hand winches and some roto tillers to assist farmers
in their swamp clearing activities, if the need arises. It is also
anticipated that there would be a rising demand for simple pedal threshers
to be used on a rental basis. The extension workers in charge of swamp
rice development would closely follow all development activities.



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICUITURAL DEVELOPMEf? PROJECT
Monthly and Annual Rainfall at Voinjama
Annual
Rainfall          Sliding Average Annual Rainfall   . .... 21-Year Monthly Rainfall.
Year                (mm)               over 5-Year Periods (mm)                             (mm)
Period          Average  ...                     Average  Max  Min
1953                3020
1954               2193               1953-57            2673                 January       13      90    0
1955                1817               1954-58             3124                February      35    127    0
1956                2386               1955-59             3340                March        107    289   26
1957                3948               1956-60o'           3536                April        191    699   47
1958                5277               1957-61             3459                May          217    460  114
1959                3271               1958-62            3259                 June         277    466   80
1960                2800               1959-63             2693                July         371    662  102
1961                2000               1960-64             2543                August      1411    635  177
1962                2946               1961-65            2391                 September   382    853  216
1963                2450               1962-66             2340                October      239   1453   15
1964                2520               1963-67            2246                 November    198    723   53
1965                20140              1964-68            2268                 December      84    746    0
1966                1744               1965-69             2124
1967                2476               1966-70            2045
1968                2560               1967-71            20914
1969                1800               1968-72            2014
1970                1645               1969-73             1916
1971                1989
1972                2075
1973                2071
Average:            2525
iIP)



ANCNEX 1
Table 2
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRECULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Crop Yields (Kg/ha)
....... Rice ...........  .....   Coffee .............. Cocoa.
Im.proved  Niew    Rehab.       ITew      Rehab.       New
ProiEct Year  UplarLd Improve   jwa~m   Plantings  Plantings  Plantings  Pla ntns
0 2/     1 , 0o0    1,500     -          280        -           ?C0        -
1 1,700  / 1 .900 )J 1 80Q LV  300         -          lhoo        _
2      2,500   2,000         350         -          600         _
3                 2,800   2,500         600         -           4
l;                 3,300   3,000        900        300 5/               200 /
5                  3,500   1,300         700       900                  hOO
6                          3,500                 1,000                  600
7                                                 4                     850
1/  On double cropped swanp,s , Yield on second crop is 20% lower thar 1st
crop. See Table 8.
2/  Situation without project.
3/  After accepting the mirirmwn package: 50 kg/ha LAC 23 seed + 100 kg/ha
fertilizer (20-20-0).
LV  After accep-ting the mir-rinm package: 50 kg/ha IR 5 seed + 200 kg/ha
fertilizer (90-2()-O).
5/  The fourth year after r1anting.



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFIENT YROJECT
Pro,jcot Output of Rice 2
Hectare         Project
Year of     Non-      -              Year    1       2        3       4       5        6       7       8        9      10-30
Planting Ouwulative Cumulative
......................     '000  kg   ...................................-
I. Improved Upland Rice
Yr 1         150         150                 255     255      255     255     255      255     255     255      255     255
2         650        800                        1,360   1,360   1,360   1,360   1,360   1,360   1,360   1,360   1,360
3       1,200      2,000                                3,400   3,400   3,400   3,400   3,400   3,400   3,400   3,400
4       1,600      3,600                                         6,120   6,120   6,120   6,120   6,120   6,120   6,120
5       2,000      5,600                                                 9,520   9,520   9,520   9,520   9,520   9,520
Total Production              2/255   1,360   3,400   6,120   9,520   9,520   9,520   9,520   9,520   9,520
Without improvement producticol 150     800   2,000   3,600   5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600
Incremental                    105      560   1,400   2,520   3,920   3,920   3,920   3,920   3,920   3,920
II. New Swamp Rice
Yr    1        -                               -      -        -      -        -        -      -        -       -        -
2         150                                     313      348     435     522      575    6N9      609      609     609
3         250                                              522     580     725      870     958   1,016   1,016   1,016
4         400                                                      836     929   1,161   1,393   1,537   1,624   1,624
5         600                                                            1.253   1.392   1.740   2.668   2,298   2,436
Total Production                        313     870   1,851   3,429   3,998   4,700   5,245   5,547   5,685
III. Improved Swamp Rice
Yr 1          50         50                  110      145     162     192      203     203     203      203     203      203
2          50        100                          110      145     162     192      203     203      203     203     203
3         100        200                                   221     290     325      383     406     406      406     406         g I .
4         150        350                                           331     435      487     575      609     609     609
5         150        500                                                   331      435     487      575     609     609            X
Total Production                110     255     528      975   1,486   1,711   1,874   1,996   2,031   2,031
Without improvementprodi  0ion  75      150     300      525     750     750      750     750      750     750
Incremental                      35     105     228      450     736     962   1,124   1,246   1,281   1,281
Total Incremental /4            140   1,000   2,500   4,800   8,100   8,900   9,700  10,400  10,800  10,900
/1  Assuming 120 percent cropping intensity  On i,.--ved  and New Swamp Rice only.  Unxhusked (paddy) rice. See Table 2 for yield assumptions.
& 1,000 kg/ha.
1,500 kg/ha.
Improved Upland, New Swamp and Improved Swamp Rice.  Figure rounded.



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Output of Coffee
Project
year of                                 Year    1         2         3        4        5         6        7         8         9       10-30
Planting          Hectare                                                '000 kg clean coffee
I. New Coffee
Yr 1                                                                                              0
2                   500                                                                 150  4500               500      500       500
3                   500                                                                      150      450       500      500       500
4                   600                                                                               180       540      600       600
4                   700                                                                                         210       630      700
Subtotal    2,300                                                             150      600    1,130    1,750    2,230    2,300
II. Rehabilitated Coffee
Yr 1                    50                        15        18       23       30        35       35        35       35        35       35
2                    80                                 24        28       36       48        56       56        56        56       56
3                   100                                           30       35       45        60       70        70        70       70
4                   120                                                    36        42       54       72        84        84       84
5                   150                                                             145       53        68       90       105      105
Subtotal       X                         15       42        81      137       215      258      301       335       350      350
Without inprovement production Y          14       36       64        98      140       140      140       140         -         -
Incremental                                1        6       17        39       75       118      161       195      210       210
Total Incremental                         0         0        0         0      250       700    1,300    2,000    2,400    2,500
1  280 kg per ha.
E  New planting  and :{ehabilitated Coffee; rounded to npA.ro.qt t(O                                                                           ax a,
CD 0



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Output of Cocoa 1/
Projec Year    1        2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9       10      11       12-30
Year of     -     -     -     -    -     .................... Q000 kg               ..........................................
Plantinig      Hectare
I. New Cocoa
Yr 1                        -                             -       -       -           -       -       -                -       -
2             300                                                 60     120     180     240     255      255     255     255
3             300                                                         60     120     180      240     255     255     255
4             400                                                                 80     160     240     320      340     340
5              ^00                                                                       100     200     300      400     425
Total   1,X 1                                                 60     180     380     650      935   1,130   1,250   1,275
II. Rehabilitated Cocoa
Yr 1              50                 20      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30       30      30      30
2             100                         40      60      60      60      60      60      60      60       60      60      60
3             150                                 60      90      90      90      90      90      90       90      90      90
4             200                                         80     120     120      120     120     120     120     120     120
5             Xo0                                                120    180    iJ30    icc        Th1    180      180    180
Total    800                  20      70     150     260     420    45       45      480      450     480 480         480
Without improvement
production 3/               14      42      84      140     224     224     224     224     224     224     224      224
Incremental                    6      28      66      120     196    256      256     256     256     256     256      256
Total IncrementalW             0       0      100     100    300      500     700   1,000   1,200   1,400   1,500   1,600
0
1/ For yield assumption see Table 2.
3/ 280 kg per ha.
New plantings and rehabilitated cocoa. Rounded to nearest t00.
March 21, 1975



ANNEXI
Table
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Cocoa Seedlings
Imported from Ivory Coast: 60 CFAF/pod
1 truck load = 15,000 pods x CFAF60         5   CFAF900,000   =$  ,000
Transport Cost: Ivory Coast - Voinjama                         $ 2,700
a)  Total Cost, 1 truck load till nursery  -                   $ 6,700
(15,000 pods = 50,000 seeds)
b)  Plastic bags ($8/1,000) = 8 x 450                          $ 3,600
c)  Topsoil transport 450,000 kg = 90 trucks of 5 tons
5,000
1 truck load = 5 x 50 per ton-mile = $2.50/truck-mile.
Average distance is 50 miles round trip = $125 per trip +
$25 filling cost = $150/trip. Hence 90 trips cost
90 x 150 = $13,500                                         $13,500
d) Labor Cost
Filling of bags (1 per bag = 4,500)           .   ......... $13,500
Maintenance: 50 men x 150 days x $1.20   9,000
e)  Shade Material                                             $ 3,000
f) Plant Protection                                            $ 2,000
g)  Transport of seedlings to distribution center per
rented truck ($80/day for 3 trips). Each trip about
400 plants. For 360,000 plants - 300 truck days = $24,000
Handling $5,000                                            $29,000
h)  Overheads                                                  $ 7,700
Total Cost for 360,000 seedlings.   .                    $79,000
Allowing for some inefficiency in the development stage the
estimated cost is:     25//seedling
l/ allowing for 20% nursery losses.



ANNEX I
Table <
LIBERIA
LOFA CCUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Coffee Seedlings
To provide 450,000 seedlings one has to import from
Ivory Coast: 140 kg seeds  $5.50 = $770
Transport Cost: Ivory Coast - Voinjama = $130
a)  Cost of 140 kg seed till nursery (incl. transport)           =$   900.00
b)  Plastic bags ($8/1000= 8 x 450)                              =$ 3,600.00
c)  Topsoil transport (see cocoa)                                =$13,500.00
d)  Labor Cost
Pre-nursery cost                     $ 3,500
Filling of bags (1i  per bag)        $ 4,500.                =$26,000.00
Maintenance: (50 men x 300 days
x $1.20)    $18,000
e)  Shade Material                                               =$ 3,000.00
f)  Plant Protection                                             =$ 2,000.00
g)  Transport to distribution center (see cocoa)                 4$29,000.00
h)  Overheads                                                    =$ 8,000.00
Total cost for 360,000 seedlings.l/                        $86,000.00
Allowing for some inefficiency in the development stage the estimated
cost is:               30/seedling
1/ Allowing for 20% nursery losses.



ANNEX 1
Table 6
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Cultivation Costs (per hectare)
Upland Rice - Improved
Year           1     2 thru 4    5 (and every 5th year)
Yield (paddy)  (kg)                      1,700    1,700    1,700
0*0.0  Mandays    .e00
Labor Requirements (annual)
Removal of undergrowth
cutting and burning of trees            60
Land preparation                          43
Broadcast sowing                           2
Fertilizer application                     2
Weeding                                   45
Fence erection and maintenance            15
Harvesting and threshing                  55
Total Mandays (All farm labor)             222      222      222
US Dollars
Material InPuts
Seeds        1                            18        -       18
Fertilizer   2                            36       36       36
Tools        3                            20        -        -
Total MaterialCosts                         74       36       54
Seasonal Credit
Seeds /-L                                 18        -       18
Fertilizer/2                              36       36       36
Tools /3                                  20        -        -
Total seasonal credit requirements          74       36       54
/1 Improved rice seed would be provided to farmer on Seasonal credit every
5th year.
/2  100  kg NPK (20-20-0)  supplied on credit annually.
__ Seasonal Loan of $20 provided to farmer in first year for improved tools.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Cultivation Costs (per hectare)
Swamp Rice - Improved
Single Cropped                                     Double Cropped
Year    1        2        3       4        5 onwards       1        2        3       4        5 onwards
Yield (Paddy)  (kg)                          11900   2,500   2,800   3,300   3,500              3,420   4,500   5,050   5,750    6,300
Labor Requirements                           ..............           .      . .....   Mandays
Development                                   Lnil      nil     nil      nil      nil             nil      nil     nil      nil      nil
Seasonal
Removal of undergrowth                        70  )                                                 )
Land preparation                              28  )                                              56)
Direct seed sowing /1                          2  )  175      175      175      175              80 )   278      278      278      278
Fertilizer application                         2  )                                               2)
Weeding                                       50  )                                             100
Cantal and fence maintenance                  23  )                                              4o
Harvesting and threshing                      58       70      75       87       90             116      140     150      174      180
Total Mandays (All Farm Labor)            233     245      250      262      265             394     418      428       5      2 78
Material Its                                                                            US Dollars
Seeds                                         18       18                                        36      36
Fertilizer                                    72       72                                       134      14h
Tools                                         4o        -                                        4      i
Total Material Cost                       130      90    90          90      90              220     180      180      180     180
Seasonal Credit /2
Seeds                                         18       18                                        18       18
Fertilizer                                    72       72                                        72       72
Tools                                         ho        -                                        4o        -
Total Seasonal Credit Requirement         130       9       9 90     90 90                   130       90      90       90       90
/1  On single crop - farmer would directly plant seed using 50 kg/ha   on double crop farmer would need to transplant, due to time
constraints, and would also use 50 kg/ha seed.
/2   Seasonal credit on double cropped rice would be twice the single crop requirement in each year.



ANNEX I
Table 
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Cultivation Costs (per hectare)
Swamp Rice - New
Single Cropped                                                         Double Cropped
Year        1        2        3        4        5       6 onwards               1        2        3        4        5       6 onwards
Yieli (paddy)    (kg)                  1,800   2,000   2,500   3,009   3,300   3,500                       3.240   3.600   4.500   5.400   5,950   6,300
................ .............., . .   ..............   Mandays
Labor Re2uirem-on'.s
Development                            (1/2 ha)(1/2 ha)
Removal of undergrowth                   20      20                                                         20       20
Felling, clearing, burning,              28      27                                                         28       27
and stumping of trees
Irrigation and irainage ditches        325        -                                                        325        -
Subto-.,                          373       47            -             -        -                    373      47         -
Seasonal                              (1 /2 ha) (1 ha)  (1 ha)                                            (1/2 ha) (1 ha)
Removal of undergrowth                    -      35       70 )                                               -        -)
Land preparation                        14       28       28 )                                              28       56
Nursery and transplanting /2             -        -        - )                                              40       80
Direct seed sowing /2                     1       2        2 )   17'       175      175                      -        -)   273        273      273      278
Fertilizer application                   1        2        2 )                                               1        2)
Weeding                                  25      50       50 )                                              50      100
Canal and fence maintenance             12       23       23 )                                              20       4D0
Harvesting and threshing                 27      60       70       80       87       90                     55      120      140      160      174      180
Subtotal                           80-     200      245     255      262      263                    194      398      411      433      452      45Z
Total Mandsys                            452       247     245      255      262      265                    567      445      418      438      452      458
of which - hired labor /3              300         -       -        -        -        -                    300        -        -        -        -        -
................................  .................. .. 0          US Dollars  ........................................
Material Inputs
Seed                                      9      18       18                                                13       36
Fertilizer                               36      72       72                                                72      144
Tools                                   40        -       -                                                4         -
Total Material Costs                       85       90      90       9C       90       90                    130      lBo      180      180      170      180
Development Loan
Hired labor                            300                                                                 300
Tools                                   40 4
Total Development Loan              340        -        -        -        -        -                    340        -
Seasonal Credit /4
Seed                                      9    - 13       19                                                 9       15
Fertilizer                              36       72       72                                                36       72
Total seasonal credit                4        90       90       90 -90           90                      15 -90          9-0        g0      90        90
requirese nts
/1  Development - farmer would clear and destump over two years - first year only 1/2 ha cultivated.
On single crop - farmer would directly pland seed using 50 kg./a.
On doable crop - farmer would need to transplant, due to time constraints, and would also use 50 kg/ha seed.
/3  First year, farmer woulJd require 300 mandays of hired labor at $1.00 md for land development as insufficient farm labor available.
70 Seasonal Credit on douible cropped basis same as single crop blat credit would turn over twice in each year.



ANNEX 1
LIBERIA                                          Table 9
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DE;VELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Rehabilitation   /1
Per ha Costs
Year        1        2         3        4         5         6
Yield (clean coffee)  (Kg)                  300      350       1So       600      700       700
Mandays ..........
Labor
Underbrushing, clearing                     5
Digging,  staking, holing                   4
Planting of seedlings                       2
Planting of shade crops                     1
Supplying (infilling)                      _                   -   -              -         -
Weeding                                    40       40        40        40       40        40
Pruning                                    18       19        20        20       20        20
Fertilizer application                      2        2         2         2        2         2
Insect control                              5        5         5                  5         5
Harvesting/processing                      30       35        45        60       70        70
Total Mandays (All Farm Labor)    107         102       112      127       137       137
MateralIputs.........   US Dollars   .     . .
Seedlings  /2                              39        14        -
Fertilizer   /3                           130      135       136       1144     144       144
Tools   A                                  23        -         -         -        -         -
Shade trees                                 1        -         -
Total Material Costs                193       139      136       144       144      144
Dev2opnent Loan
Seedlings                                   39
Fertilizer                                 130
Tools                                       23
Shade trees                                  1
Total Development Loan               193
Seasonal Credit
Seedlings                                             a4        -         - 
Fertilizer                                          135       136       144      144       1414
Total Seasonal Credit                          139       136      144       144       114
L 10 percent of the area is infilled,i.e. 130 new seedlings planted (1,300 per ha).
, Seedling at 30/ each.
73360 kg NPK in Yr 1; 10 kg urea + 360 kg NPK Yr 2; 15 kg urea + 360 kg NPK Year 3; 400 kg NPK from
Yr 4 onwards;NPK 36 g/kg, urea 45  /Ag-
/4  Hand tools (2 knives at $6.00, 2 cutlasses at $1.5 and 1 hoe $7.5).



ANNEX I
LIBERIA                                       Table 10
LCFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee - New Planting Li
Per ha Costs
Year      1         2         3        4         5         6
Yield (clean coffee)  (Kg)                    -         -                300       900    1,000
Labor                                       ........ ......   Mandays.       ... .
Land clearing                              70 
Digging, staking,  pegging                 _5         -        -         -         -         -
Planting of seedlings                      18        -         -         _         -        _
Planting of shade crops                     2         -        -         -         -         _
Supplying (infilling)                       -        5         2         -         -         _
Weeding                                    20        50       50        40        40        40
Pruning                                     -        10       10        20        20       20
Fertilizer application                      -        2         2         2         2         2
Insect  control                             -        -         5         5         5        5
Harvesting/processing                       -         -        -        30        75        80
Total Mandays (All Farm Labor)    1L5          67        69        97      142       147
................  US Dollars  ...............
Material Inputs
Seedlings (coffee) /2                     390       39        20         -         -        -
Seedlings (shade tree)                     10        -         -         -         -        -
Fertilizer /3                               -       45        68       144       144      144
Tools A                                    30         -        -         _-                 -
Total Mateiral Costs                4-30       84        88       144      144       144
Dovalopment Loan
Seedlings (coffee)                        390       39        20
Seedlings (shade tree)                     10        -         -
Fertilizer                                  -       45        68
Tools                                      30         -        -
Total Development Loan              430    - 4           du
Seasonal Credit
Fertilizer                                  -         _        _       144       144      144
Total Seasonal Credit                 -         -         -       144      144       144
Esblishment, maintenance and harvesting
1,300 seedlings per ha at 30  each, supplying 10 percent in Yr 2, 5 percent in Yr 3.
O 100 kg + 750 kg urea in 2nd and 3rd years respectively, from 4th year 400 kg NPK (20-20-0).
Unit cost: urea 45a/kg + NPK 36g,ikg.
/A Hand tools (2 cutlasses at $1.5, 2 hoes at $7.5 and 2 knives at $6.00).



LIBERIA                                    ANNEX 1
Table 11
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cocoa Rehabilitation Lj
Per ha Costs
Year  1        2         3        4         5        6        7       8
Yield (cocoa beans)  (Kg)                  400      600       600      600       600      600      600     600
Labor                                      ......................    Mandays     ............................
Underbrushing, clearing                             5 
Digging, staking,  holing                  4-                      -        -             -        -       -
Planting seedlings                         2             -         -        -         -            -       -
Supplying (infilling)                      -        1         -        -         -        -        -       -
Weeding                                   20       20        20       20        20       20       20      20
Pruning                                    2        1         -        -         -        -        -       -
Fertilizer application                     1        1         1        -         -        -        -       -
Phytosanitary control                     20       20        20       20        20       20       20      20
Harvesting/processing                     30       50        50       50        50       50       50      50
Total Mandays (All Farm Labor)       8)4      93        91       90        90       50       90      90
--..........I.........    US  Dollars  ..........
Materials
Seedlings /2                              38        4         -        -         _        _        _       _
Fertilizer /3                             11       11        11       11         -                 -       -
Tools and equipment A                     48        -         -        8         8        8        8       8
Phytosanitary chemicals /5                15       15        15       15        15       15       15      15
Total Material Costs                112       30        26       34        23       23       23      23
'evelopment Loan
Socdlings                                38
Fertilizer                               11
Tools and sprayers                       48
Agricultural chemicals                   15
Total Development Loan             112
Seasonal Credit
Seedlings                                           4         _        _         _        _        -       _
Fertilizer                                         11        11       11
Tools and sprayers                                  -         -        8         8        8        8        8
Agricultural chemicals                             15        15       15        15        15      15       15
Total Seasonal Credit                         30        26       34        23       23       23      23
I1  10 percent of the area is infield,  i.e. 150 new seedlings planted (1,500 p/ha).
7 Seedlings at 25i each.
3 For infield plants only during first four years, NPK (12-12-17-5) 35 kg each year at 30//kg.
70 Hand tools (2 knives at $6.0, 2 cutlasses at $1.5, 1 hoe at $7.5) and one knapsack sprayer at $25;
knapsack sprayer replaced every 3 years.
E  Copper oxide 13 kg/ha at $1.1 per kg.



LIBERIA
ANNEX I
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                        Table 12
Cocoa New Planting Lj
Per ha Costs
Year    1         2         3         4        5         6        7        8
Yield (cocoa beans)  (Kg)                     -         -         -      200       400       600      800   1,000
*---------------...-...   Mandays   ............................
Labor
Land clearing                              75         -         -        -         -         -        -
Pegging, staking,  holing                  40              -             -         -             -
Planting seedLings /2                      18         -        -         -         -         -        -
Supplying (lnfillin7J /2                    -         5        2         -         -         -        -       _
Weeding/slashing                            5        25        20       20        20        20       20      20
Pruning                                     -        10        5         -         -         -        -       _
Fertilizer application                      2         2         2        2         -         -        -        -
Phytosanitary control a                     -        15        15       15        20        20       30      35
Harvesting/processing                       -         -         -       15        30        50       60      65
Total Mandays (All Farm Labor)    140          57        44        52        70        90     110      120
..............    -o.   US Dollars   ..............                -
Materials
Cocoa seedlings A                         375        38       19         -         _         _        _
Fertilizer /5                             105       105       105      105         -         -        -        -
Tools and equipment /6                     55         -         -        8         8         8        8       8
Phytosanitary chemicals/7                   -         2         2        6        12        13       16      20
Total Material  Cost                535       145       126       119        20        21      24       28
Development loar.
Seedlings                                 375        38       19
Fertilizer                                105       105       105
Tools and equipments                       55         -         -
4ricultural chemicals                       -         2         2
Total Development Loan              535       145       126
Seasonal Credit
Fertilizer                                                             105         -         -        _       _
Tools                                                                    8         8         8        8        8
Agricultural chemicals                                                   6        12        13       16      20
Total Seasonal Credit                                             119        20        21      24       28
/1  Establishment, maintenance and harvesting.
75  1,500 seedlings per ha supplying;10 percent in Year 2 and 5 percent in Year 3.
7   Includes shade management.
7   At 25$ per seedling.
NPK (12-12-17-5) 350 kg/ha during first four years, 30$/kg.
/6 Hand tools (2 knives at $6.00, 2 cutlasses at $1.5, 2 hoes at $7.5) and one knapsack sprayer at $25;
knapsack sprayer replaced every 3 years.
17  Copper oxide at $ 1.10/kg



ANNEX 1
Table 13
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Costs
Urea-       NPK           NPK
(12-12-17-5)  (20-20-0)
.00000  US$/ton       0 0000
FOB /                                    330.00      190r00        250.00
Transport/port                            30.0        30.00         30.00
handling
CIF/port handling                        360.00      220.00       280.00
Transport to Voinjama /2                  46.00       46o00         46o00
Landed Cost, Voinjama                    406.00      266.00        326.00
LPMC Commission /3                        20.00       14.00         17.00
Co-op transport A                         10.00       1000         lOoOO
Handling  h                               10.00        10o00        10.00
Total - per ton                          446.00      300.00        363.00
per 50 kg bag                     22.30        15.00        18.00
cents per kg                       o.h5        0.30         0.36
Foreign Exchange                          80          75            78
(percent)
/1  Source: Commodities Division, IBRD. Based on FOB North Western Europe.
20A/ton mile, 230 miles.
5 percent commission on landed cost at Voinjama.
50, per 50 kg bag.



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Size of Fann and Cropping Pattern in the Project Area,  1971
Swamn Ri-e         'nland Rice              ,offee              Cocoa               Cassava                 Corn              Sug  ane
Size Grcup               d of             O of Total             eof Tcta            cf COa             % of Total           % of Total           % of Total            % of Total
ha            -diolding_   Are-   HeoldU`   s -ea         o-o  nes   Are a    Eo'cs e       rea   Holdings   Area    Holdings   Area    Hold.ngs   Area    Holdings   Area
Less than .5               23.7      2.9          .3      1.7        22.2       5.9       2.6.        .9       2.4        .7          -        -         10.1      5.3           .8      5.8
5 -  1.0               24.1      8.0          .2      2.9        23.9    17.1         5.1       2.6       4.5       1.9           .6     8.1          9.5    17.3            .2      2.2
1.0 -  2.0
1.0 -  2.0               27.-    17.6           .3    17.6         26.0     Ijw        lO.;       9.6       6.1       4.6          3.5    48.0          9.7    38.8          1 .A    28.3
2.0 -  14.0              15.3    17.6          1.7    64.3         lZ.0    26.6         (.6      16.6       I-.d      (t          1.7    L0.6           3.1    10.7           .2    15.3
Totals                     90.6    46.1          3.5    86.5         84.1    82.6        25.9      31.7      l6.8        1h.C      5.8    96.7          32.4    72.1          2.6    51.6
4   -  5.0                  .2      .4           -       -            -       -          -          -         .2       1.7          -                     -        -
5   - 10.0                5.3    17.0            .4    13.5         3.0    15.8         3.5      32.7       '.1      17.C           .5      1.1          2.6    25.5           .2      2.,
10   - 20.0                2.9    16.9            -       - -5                1.6         2.4     29.2        2.4     52.9           .2      1.9           .2      2.14         .2    30.6
20   - 50.0                 .5      7.5           -       -           -        -           .1      2.9         -         .9          -        -            -        -           -        -
50  -100.0                  .5    12.1            -.3                                              3.5         .5      13.5          -        -            -        -           -        -
Totals                      9.4    53.9            .4    13.55        3.5    17.14         6.3     68.3        4.2      86.0           .7     3.3-         2.8    27.9           .6    48.4
1/ Liberia Census oi Agriculture, 1-71, T3oles f. 5, 11, 12
Excluding Zorzor Area
o1|



ANNEX 1
Table 15
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Holding-Size and Labor Units per Holding (1)
Holding Size                     Persons/H!olding     Labor Units/Holding
(ha)
Less than .2                           3.8                    1.5
.2 -  .5                           4.9                    1.9
.5 - 1.0                           4.6                    1.8
1.0 - 2.0                            5.7                    2.2
2.0 - 4.0                           6.2                     2.4
0   - 4.o                           5.2                     2.0
4.o - 5.0                            3.1                    1.6
5.0 - 10.0                          4.3                     1.7
10   - 20.0                           3.7                    1.4
20   - 50.0                           3.5                    1.4
5o   - 100.0                         3.3                     1.3
4,o - 100.0                         L.0                     1.6
5.1                    1.9
(1) Computed from Tables 22, 43, 44 of the Census of Agriculture 1971,
* op. cit., extrapolated to 1974.
Key used for labour equivalents as proposed by K. H. FRIEfRICH
"Manual for Farm Management Investigations in Develooing Countries".
FAO 1971, p.45. For those farm members who have an additional off-
farm occupation the value has been halved.
Household is defined as group of persons living together and eating
together froia the same kitchen, regardless whether they live in one or
more structures (huts). (Sees Census of Agriculture, 1971.)
The possibility of about 1300 laborers migrating into the Wologisi
area taken into account.



LIBERTIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
v          Summary - Labor Requirements for Project Crops
(Mandays/ha)
Jan.   Feb.   March   April   May   June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.            Total
Upland Rice                 20     20       10      20      27    20     15      15.     -      30      35     10           222
Swamp Rice (Single Cropped)20      20       30      15      20    20     15\    50       40     10       5     20           265
Swamp Rice (Double Cropped)20      50       55      44     35    20      20     50       40     25      54     45           458
Coffee New                  25      -       10       2      10    12     -       15       -      20     33      20          147
Cocoa New                   -      -         5       -       7    13     -        -      30      30     25      10          120
O N



ANiEX 2
Page 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE PROJECT AREA
A. Roads
1.         Roads in Liberia are classified into three categories: primary
roads (width 24' - 26', 1.5" - 3" bituminous pavement on 16" - 18" base or
6" - 12" laterite pavement), secondary roads (width 18' - 20', h" - 10"
laterite pavement) and farm-to-market roads (161 - 18' wide, unpaved surface
of gravel and earth). The primary roads link important urban and semi-urban
population centers; the secondary roads provide access to the primary roads
from small ccimmunities; and the farm-to-market roads link small villages and
give farmers access to secondary and occasionally to primary roads. There is
also an elaborate network of 31 - 41 wide footpaths throughout rural areas.
Except for some roads constructed by rubber, timber and iron ore concessionaries,
all others are constructed and maintained by Government. These have primarily
been the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works but recently the
Ministry of Rural Development and AGRIMECO have been involved in construction
of farm-to-market roads.
2.         A complete inventory of project area rural roads is not available.
However, there are believed to be nearly 500 km of roads including some 320
km of farm-to-market roads, 80 km of secondary roads and 160 km of primary
roads. The latter is part of the 480 km all weather partly laterite, partly
paved road running between Monr-ovia, Zorzor, Voinjama and Foya. Assuming a
uniform population distribution, the most remote farmers in the project area
are about five km    away from the nearest road while 78% of the population
have either easy access to or live within 2 km of a road. All these roads
have inadequate surfaces with difficult grades and hazardous horizontal and
vertical sight distances. The secondary roads have grades exceeding 7% and
in some cases over 10%. Farm-to-market roads have grades varying between 12%-
20% and very unsatisfactory horizontal and vertical alignments as most were
constructed on old established footpaths or trails without a proper survey.
In addition there is a total lack of proper maintenance. The Ministry of
Public Works, which is primarily responsible for maintenance does not have
the necessary equipment, finance and personnel. Even minor maintenance such
as grading, filling up pot-holes, bush clearances on the right-of-way,
cutting slopes and digging drainage ditches and clearing the excessive
vegetation and natural debris from waterways near bridges and culverts is not
carried out when required. Consequently, most of the roads have substandard
surfaces and crossfalls, cannot be used for vehicular traffic year round, and
during the rainy season many of them become impassable.  However, much of the
maintenance can be done by manual labor with small hand tools.
j Details on Zorzor area not included in this report because they were in-
corporated into the project at a later stage of the appraisal.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.          The Government is aware of the problem and road development and
maintenance work are increasing. The 1975 M4PW budget allocation for road
maintenance is about $2.1 million for the whole of Liberia, about 17 percent
higher than allocation in fiscal 1L974. Procurement of USAID financed road
maintenance equipment of $4.4 milLion is underway.  Implementation of the Bank/
IDA Second Highway Project (907/395 LBR) and the proposed Third Highway project
will provide MPW with additional equipment, plant and trained personnel.
4.          To successfully implement the project it is essential that exis-
ting roads in the project area are maintained and new farm-to-market/feeder
roads opened. To provide all weather access, the project requires (a) upgrading
to and maintenance at an acceptable standard of the primary road linking Foya,
Voinjama and Zorzor, together with 500 km of existing feeder roads and (b)
construction of 100 km of new feeder roads. Assurances were obtained from
GOL that MPW will undertake this road program according to phasing agreed
with MPW. (To improve road maintenance in the Lofa region, a Maintenance
District has been established at Voinjama). To further strengthen the MPW
program in the Froject area, the project would finance and operate a small
road maintenance unit consisting of construction and workshop crew, equipment,
plant and workshop facilities.
B. Power
5.          There is one public power-station in the project area which
supplies the town of Voinjama and one LPMC plant in Voinjama. In addition,
there are several small privately-owned diesel generators.
6.          The power-station at Voinjama was built in 1971 by the Public
Utility Authority (PUA). It has two diesel generators, each with a rated
capacity of 500 kw and is barely adequate for the Voinjama town needs.
7.          LRMC's power-station has three generators with rated capacities
of 136, 58 and 28 kw, respectively.
8.          Additionally, there are small power generation plants at Kolahun,
Wologisi and Zorzor.
C. Educationi
9.          In 1973 there were 47 elementary schools (kindergarten, pre-
primary and grades 1-6) in the project area j, of which 20 are in the
Voinjama district and 27 in the Kolahun district. Except for the larger
towns of Voinjama, Kolahun, Bolahun, Foya-Tangia and Zorzor, all other
school localities contain only one school.  In the project area there are
four secondary schools (grades 7-12), one each in Voinjama, Kolahun, Bolahun,
Shelloe (Foya) and Zorzor. There are no colleges or institutions in the area
to cater for students beyond twelfth grade.
j  Excluding Zorzor



A  .-1 _   2
Page 3
10.         It is estimated that o)nly 10% of the popu!la.    attended school.
Of these 7; completed one or more grades in elementary s^hool, 2A completed
grades 7-9 and onlv 1% attended grades 10-12. iMany more boys than girls
attend sciools. Schools are inadequate and overall teacher -student ratio is
about 1:42. There are about 11 mission schools in the area where facilities
are better and the teacher-student ratio is about 1:27.
11.         Less than 10% of the total population is literate in English,
although about 15 can speak English. Both in the elementary and secondary
schools enrollments progressively decrease in higher grades. Lack of funds,
school distances and need for additional farm help are cited as major reasons
for the dropouts.
12.         The school system is plagued by the problems of quality as well as
quantity. The school curricula at all levels are unimaginative, sterile and
divorced from the needs of the society. To reorientate the primary school
system towards rural development requirements GOL launched the Community
Schools Program in 1971.  The purpose is to improve primary education in
rural areas, to provide more relevant education to rural children and to
prepare them for life in a rural society. Furthermore, school facilities
would be made available for adult education and community development
activities.
The program includes the following elements:
-  Improvement and development of 200 rural schools as
Community Schools;
-  Training of a new type of primary school teacher in
rural development techniques who will be able to
contribute to rural ccnmunity development activities;
- Reform of the curriculae of primary schools with
agriculture as a teaching subject;
- Activities for community education, including adult
literacy, craft training and home economics;
- The addition to Community Schools of a school kitchen;
cafeteria, manual arts room and a home economics room;
- Introduction of school gardens;
- Teaching of functional literacy to adults.
13.         Up to mid-1974 about 100 schools had been designated as Community
Schools. Of these, seven are in the project area and are situated in the
following locations:
Voinjama District:  Voinjama
Velezala
Kolahun District:   Kolahun      Bolahun
Korwohun    Kpordu
Sheloe



ANNEX 2
Page 4
14.         A proposed IDA education project to support GOLts rural develop-
ment program would also include the establishment of a number of Cammunity
Schools in the project area. The Ministry of Education has expressed its
readiness to cooperate fully with the project in the implementation of the
Community School Program. The PMU will closely liaise with the Ministry of
Education to assist, with the help of the Project Advisory Csxnmittee, in
establishing Community Schools Programme priorities in the project area.
D. Health
15.         GOL allocates a little over 9% of its total expenditures for
health services. The ratio of doctors and para-medical staff to population
are about 1:10,000 and 1:1,000, respectively. There is significant imbalance
between urban and rural health services with nearly 75% of Government employed
physicians working in and around Monrovia. Government hospitals and clinics
in rural areas are in poor condition, lacking minimumi facilities, supplies and
staff. In the rural areas the ratio between doctors, hospitals, and hospital
beds to population are about 1:22,000, 1:54,000 and 1:1,200 respectively. The
result of these regional imbalances in health services are manifested in the
fact that death rates, including infant mortality, in rural areas are about
1.5 times higher than those in the urban areas.
16.         In the project area there are only two government hospitals, one
at Voinjama with 56 beds and one at Zorzor with 34 beds. There are 30 govern-
ment health clinics in the Lofa county, 21 of them in the project area (17
supporting the Telewoyen Hospital in Voinjama, and four in the Zorzor area).
The hospital at Voinjama has two medical doctors, one of whom is also in
charge of the administration and coordination of the government health services
in the whole county, and a small nursing staff. With this meagre staff and
other facilities, the hospital had to give medical attention to about 25,000
persons in the outpatient department, perform nearly 150 surgical operations
and take care of about 1,800 inpatients during 1974.
17.         GOL is aware of the dismal state of its rural health services and
the interaction between health and productivity. This has lead to a compre-
hensive health improvement program in rural areas starting with Lofa County
and known as Lofa County Rural Health Project (outreach) (LCRHP). The
objective is to establish an integrated institutional framework (with John F.
Kennedy Medical Center in Monrovia at the apex) for providing preventive and
curative medical services in the rural areas. It aims at a) upgrading and
expanding 30 health clinics in Lofa County (each having two health assistants)
to diagnose and treat-common ailments, dispense certain specified drugs, and
provide family planning assistance b) establishing five health centers (each
having two medical assistants, twc midwives, one health assistant, one lab
technician, two nurses and one sanitary inspec-tor and c) upgrading the county
hospitals at Voinjama and Zorzor to provide technical guidance to the health
centers posts and handle the more complicated cases. Essential elements will
be the strong emphasis laid on preventive health activities, including family
planning and child spacing; clearly delineated functions for each type of
rural health institution; a properly conceived and organized personnel program;
competent professional supervision; an effective transportation system and



ANNEX 2
Page 5
distribution of drugs and supplies; two way radio communications between the
various units; and record keeping and evaluation.
18.         The total LCRHP project costs over a four year period are estimated
to be $5.6 million with GOL financing $2.5 million, USAID $2.6 million,
UNICEF, CARE and other philanthropic organizations $.5 million. It is
expected that during the implementation of the project 15% of the Lofa County
population will be served in the first year, 35% in the second year and 70%
in the fourth year.
19.         The common health problems in the project area are directly
related to low inccme, poverty, unsanitary environment, malnutrition and
dietary insufficiency, lack of health education, and inadequate disease
prevention program. The population is susceptible to various infectious
diseases common to tropical Africa (malaria, measles, diarrhea, dysentry,
pneumonia, neonatal tetanus, hookworms and other intestinal parasites), the
outcome of which often is fatal due to lack of curative medical services.
Apart frcm these common infectious diseases, leprosy, onchocerciasis and
schistoscmiasis are endemic to the area. Incidence of oncho have been found
in certain parts of Lofa County, but their consequences have not been serious
(such as blindness and severe dermatoses). However, the Liberian Research
Unit of the Tropical Institute of Hamburg, Germany, has been doing active
research and surveillance of this disease in the project area. The proposed
project is most unlikely to activate and intensify the causes of this
infection.
20.         Urinary schistosomiasis has been known for decades to be an endemic
and widespread parasitic disease in North-Western Liberia although recent
Government studies revealed that this was not so widespread in Lofa County.
However, the possibilities of the balance between parasite and human host
being disturbed when swamp rice cultivation is expanded are real and call for
control measures. This is reinforced by the fact that Bulinus snails, the
main intermediate host, were found in 12 of the 15 fields and 15 of the 23
creeks and uncultivated swamps investigated in the project area. Constant
and careful vigilance is therefore essential during the first two to four
years of project implementation to identify increases in schistosomiasis in
the population so that appropriate preventive and curative measures could be
initiated by GOL.
21.         Implementation of LCRHP should develop adequate capabilities for
handling normal diagnosis and curative treatment of schistosomiasis in the
project area but not' for monitoring and research aspects.  The project,
therefore, will provide facilities and skilled medical staff for a surveillance
unit to work    closely with local health authorities, the USAID rural health
program and if necessary, with the Firestone Institute of Tropical Medicine
where GOL proposes to conduct basic research on Schistosumiasis. V The
proposed surveillance unit will be attached to Voinjama Hospital and headed by
a medical doctor with experience in public health, tropical medicine and, if
j  GOL has asked for a budget allocation of $150,000 for the 1st year for
this purpose.



ANNEX  2
Page 6
possible, Schistosomiasis. He will be assisted by a small laboratory and
field staff. The terms of reference for the Schistosomiasis Surveillance
Service would be:
a) To carry out an initial survey and to collect all relevant
base line data on
- the prevalence and if possible the intensity of urinary
schistosomiasis in all rice field workers employed on
the Project and in all those who will work in the rice
fields in future;
- the prevalence and if possible the intensity of urinary
schistosomiasis in representative random samples of
children and of the adult population in the Project
area;
- the bionomics of the intermediate hosts of S. hae-
matobium and possibly on the intermediate hosts of
other species of schistosomes in the Project area,
particularly those known to be pathogenic to man.
b) To carry out follow-up surveys to be performed at regular
intervals and to perform the same examinations in all rice
field workers as well as in random samples from children
and adults examined during the initial surveys.
c) Based on the data obtained from the initial surveys and the
follow-up examinations, a plan to control urinary
schistosomiasis in the Project Area should be worked out
in detail. This plan must be adapted to the changing
pattern of morbidity and the ecological conditions of the
disease in the Project Area.
d) Attention should be placed on the search for autochthonous
transmission of intestinal schistosomiasis (S. mansoni).
The intermediate host (Biomphalaria pfeifferi) of this
more dangerous form of schistosomiasis has already been
found during preparation in one creek which waters a rice
field near Solumba.
22.          Due to widespread incidence of water-borne disease in rural and
semi-urban areas, GOL wishes to establish rural water supply and sewerage
systems as a component of its overall rural development programs. Through
bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany investigations,
planning and feasibility studies were completed in six county towns for the
supply of treated piped water and construction was undertaken in three of
them (one of which is Voinjama). Apart from this a well-drilling program was
conducted in the rural areas with UNDP assistance (LIR/73/021) and another
UNDP/wIHO study has recently been started to identify pilot projects in four
rural communities. A large scale rural water supply program is beyond the



ANNEX 2
Page 7
scope of the proposed project but PMU will appraise the situation in the
project area and encourage local inhabitants to improve the water supply
through wells constructed on a self help basis. PMU would work in close
consultation with the Project Advisory Committee and local health authorities
and, where necessary, supply materials and other assistance for well construc-
tion Project costs include US$0.1 million for this purpose.



MANEX -
Page i1
LIBERIA
LOFA CCUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAND TENURE
General
1.        All land in Liberia is ultimately vested in the State; within
this overall framework land usage rights are through either a tribal
tenure system or private "ownership/lease" of land.
Tribal Tenure
2.        All tribes are entitled to use as much public land as "tribal
reserve" as they occupy and as they require for farming and other enter-
priees essential to tribal necessities L/.
3.        Within the "tribal reserve" land use is controlled by tribal law
or custom. In general, land is allocated by the chiefs and clan elders
to a family head upon demand -- provided he demonstrates a need for it
and the ability to use it. Land use rights obtained in this manner are
inheritable, but the possessing family may not sell or otherwise transfer
usage rights or the land itself. Provided the land is not planted to
tree crops, the council of tribal elders can remove usage rights from a
family in the event there is a particular alternative need or if the land
is considered to be poorly farmed.
4.        The planting of tree crpps must have the prior approval of the
council of elders and this approval indirectly conveys a more permanent
right to land use because the trees themselves and the right to use them
can be alienated by the original planter.
5.        Although boundaries are not highly specific, land disputes do
not appear to present a problem at this stage of development or in the
immediate future. This is because land is relatively plentiful and because
the tribal systems are adequate in solving such minor disputes that
occasionally arise. Any minor local disputes are referred to the clan
chief's council; more serious local or inter-clan disputes are referred
to the paramount chief's council who in turn can refer the more serious
inter-clan or inter-tribal disputes to the County Superintendent as the
representative of the President.
Private Ownership
6.        There are two laws governing the acquisition of land for private
ownership: firstly, under the "Aborigines Law" the tribe may make a
petition for the division of tribal lands into family holdings. The
government can grant deeds in fee simple, to each family, up to 10 ha,
if the tribe becomes "sufficiently advanced."
I/ Liberia, Republic of: Code of Laws from 1956, Vol. I. Aborigines
Law Charter 270



Page 2
7.        Under the "Public Land Law" the government can sell land to
private individuals, the procedure for which is:  the -pplicant obains
the consent of the tribal authorities -- for which he must make paymernt;
the paramount or clan chiefs issue a respectivre certificate to the
district commissioner who must satisfy himself that the land in question
is not required by the tribe and is not otherwise owned or acquired; the
the district commissioner then forwards his certificate to the county
land commissioner who certifies that the land in question is neither
privately owned nor encumbered; the applicant then pays the Bureau of
Revenue for the value of the land, at a minimum rate of 0.50 per acre;
finally the application documents and the payment receipt are fonrarded
to the President of the Republic for approval and deed.
8.        The procedures of both laws are fairly complicated and little
understood by the average small farmer who in any case sees little ad-
vantage in private ownership (more-overall social security within the
tribal system), thus private ownership is mainly limited to large planta-
tions, relatively few general farm holdings and to non-agricultural use.
Other Relevant Land Laws
9.        To accommodate any future need for land registration and adjudica-
tion an appropriate instrument, the "Registered Land LawT" (Chapter 8 of
the Property Law) has recently been approved. According to the new law,
the Minister of Lands and Mines will establish a national registry map
sprvey system; the registration of land at county levels will be taken
over by the "Registrar of Deeds;" in the National Archives, a section
will be established headed by a "Chief Registrare of Land;" all land adjudi-
cation will become the duty of the courts, the Chief Justice will appoint
referees for adjudication, demarcation claims, rights and interests in
land, he will also appoint demarcation and recording officers as supervisors.
The Minister of Lands and Mihes will appoint survey officers, released
from regular duties, to prepare any necessary survey documents for particular
adjudication areas.
Land Tenure Pattern in the Project Area
10.       The Agricultural Census of 1971 distinguished four tenurial
categories: tribal ownership, squatter rights, owner-like possession and rented.
Squatter rights are part of the tribal system and are given to "strangers"
within a tribal territory.  The category "lowJner-like possession" is undefined,
but appears to include tree crop planting under the tribal system (see
para 4) as well as some private ownership. The land tenure situation is
set out in Table-l( area given in acres) and as follows:
(a)  _Tn the class size of less than 10 acres (4 ha) per
holdinR, about 91% of all holdings farm 46% of all
cropped land. Within this group -3% have tribal
rights, 32% are squatters and 3% have owner-like
possession.
(b)  In the remaining class sizes 9% of the total hold-
ings occupy 54% of all farmed land. In this group,
owner-like possession represents 78% of the acreage
with tribal rights and squatter rights accounting
for 14% and 8%, respectively.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Project Support for Land Tenure Issues
11.       As the present structure gives the type of security which the
small farmer understands and trusts, major reform is considered unnecessary
in the immediate future. However, it is recognized that future develop-
ments and investments in land by farmers may create an evolving situation
where tribal law no longer becomes appropriate, in which case the new
'iRegistered Land Law" (para 9) is an available instrument for reform. The
weakest link in applying the "Registered Land Law" is likely to be in the
preparation of survey documents.
12.       The Project Management Unit will through its various divisions
keep the land tenure situation under continuous review; through the County
Superintendent and the Project Advisory Committee the PIU will assist
local officers dealing with :Land matters.  PMU will also develop records
of swamps (particularly devel oped swamps) -- who uses them for what
purposes -- such records being available to the appropriate authorities
at such tine as formal "registration" is considered desirable.
13.       To assist in compiling swamp records and for other aspects in-
cluding possible future needs of Land Adjudication/Registration teams,
the project includes its land planning section of PMU, the cost of
surveyors and mapping assistants who will be transferred to the Government's
survey team in the Lofa Countiy, at the end of the post development period:
114.      Project will require GOL, through tribal land system, to grant
project farmers adequate security of tenure to land permanently developed
for at least ten years beyond the end of their development loan period
providing land is adequately farmed and loan conditions are adhered to.
15.       Applicants for development loans would need to obtain prior
confirmation from the tribal authorities that they have development rights
to land proposed for development.



LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure Situation
!Tol.dir.nq size Nunter             Percent        .'orrns of possession  in % of
c-at ss in        of     Akcrearse -f tofatl1         _         acroaoe
acres          holdincr!;           acres hold. Owner-  P.ented Tribal  Squatter
like     fromi   form  of rights
p)osses- others tenure
sion
-  o.,o      613        212     o.5   7.5    -           -         39.2       6o.8
o.50-  1.24  1,321        1,o83      2.4  16.2       -        -         69.4       3o.5
1.25-  2.49   1,976       3,637      8.o   24.2      3.3     -         63.3        33.3
2.5o-  4.99  2,248        8,o21    17.6  27.5        2.3     -         61.2        36.4
5.oo-  9.999 1. 49       819    ;7.6   15.3         5.3      1.9      65.3        27.5
Sub-to La:l-
o.o -  9.99  7,4o7    2o,972    46.1  9o.7           3.5      o.7       63.3       32.4
lo.oo- 12.49        18        2o3     o.4   o.2  loo.o         -          -          -
12.5o- 24.99       437     7,72i7   17.o    5.3    42.5        -         32'8       24.7
25.oo- 49.99       23'i    7,67o   1.9    2.9    96.3         o.5        3.1
5o.oc-124.99        42     3,4o7      7.5    o.5    87.8       -         12.2
125.oo-249.99        _9      5,5o9    12.1   o o.5   95.7                  4.2        -
Sub-tornl
lo-25c         77o    24.516    53.9   9.4   78.1          o.2      .14.o        7.8
Total
o.oo-249.99  8,177    45,48a  loo.o loo.1   43.7    o.4                 36.7       19.1
Source: Census of Agriculture, op.cit.



ANNEX 4
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT ROJECT
Farm Incomes
1.       The project will assist participating farmers to adopt better
technology on their farms and increase productivity. Improved upland
and swamp rice, rehabilitated coffee and cocoa will have 70%, 133%, 150%
and 114.% higher yields respectively. Yield on new coffee plantings will
be about 250% higher than the existing average yields while on new cocoa
it will be about 200% higher (Annex 1 Table 2).
2.       Project will induce better pricing and marketing policies and
by removing some of the existing constraints in the marketing system
enable producers to gain a better share of the final value of their pro-
ducts (Annex 8). Consequently, significant changes in farm incomes of
the participating farmers in the project area are expected (Table 1).
Alternative farni budgets have not been prepared as the variables for
'typical' farm models and budgets are too diverse to be meaningful.
Crop budgets have therefore been prepared on a per hectare basis to indicate
the income changes that participating farmers might expect from each
crop under the project (see Tables 2-8).



Annex 4
Table 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Change in Average Farm Income in the Project Area-
Net Return US$"million"
Without Development   With Development
Upland rice   5,600 ha                               1,1                   1.7
Swamp rice       500 ha 1/                             .2                   .4
Swamp rice    1,400 ha 2/                             -                    1.0
Coffee           500 ha 1/                             .2                   .3
Coffee         2,300 ha 2/                            -                    2.0
Cocoa            800 ha 1/                             .2                   .3
Cocoa          1,500 ha 2/                            -                     .8
Total   US$ million                                  1.7                   6.5
Income per Family US$                                213                   813
Income per Capita  3/                                 43                   163
*  For 8000 participating farmers only.  Excludesincome from minor crops,
other tree crops, fruits and vegetables.
1/ Existing under cultivation, and improved under the project.
2/ New-acreage cultivated under project
3/ Assuming 5 members per family.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEMVLOPMENT PROJECT
1 ha Upland Rice (Improved Managemnt)
Farm BidSet and Cash Flow
Year 0      Year 1      Years 2-4      Year 5
Production (Paddy) Kg lJ           1,000       1,700         1,650          1,700
Value $214/ton                       214         364           353            364
Seae.l Costs                                  .......  $......................
Labor                                210          222          222            222
Materials                              5           74           48             54
Total Cost                      215         296           270            276
Credit ReceiDts                        -           74           36             54
Income before Repayment                0         142           119            142
Repayment  /                           -           81           40             59
Income after Repayment                 0          61            79             83
Value of Family labor                210         222           222            222
Net Income                      210         283           301            305
Total Family Labor (mandays)         210         222           222            222
Net Return (mandays)                 1.0         1.3           1.4            1.4
_/ 50 kg used for seed purposes, years 2-4. See Annex 1, Table 2 for yield assumption.
g/See Annex 1, Table 6 for basis of cost.
J/ Seasonal loan repaid at the end of each season a) 10 peroent interest rate.



Annex 4
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMTNT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET AND CASH FLOW
1 ha Swamp Rice (New DeveloPment)
Single Crop
(us$)
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5         Year 6          Year 7        Year 8         Year 9
ha            I ha
Revenue Ij
Production (Paddy) kg                     900           2,000           3,000          3,300          3,500           3,500          3,500            3,500           3,500
Value  $214/ton                           193              428            535            642             706            749            749              749             749
Development Costs._                                                                    l ................................................ us$......................................... 
Labour                                    373               43
Materials                                  40               -
Subtotal                       413               47
Seasonal Costs 2/
Labour                                     80              200            245             255            262            265             265             265              265
Materials                                  45               90             90              90             90             90              90              90
Subtotal                       125              290            335            345             352            355             355             355              355
Total Costs                          538             337             335            345            352             355            355             355              355
Net Before Credit                            (345)             91            200             297            354            394             394             394              394
Credit Receipts
Development                               340               -              -              -               -              -               -               -
Seasonal                                   45               90             90             90              90             90              90              90               90
Total Credit                         385              90              90             90             90              90             90               90              90
Income Before Repayment                       40              181            290             387            444            484             484             484              484
Repayments i/
Development                                -               -               94              94             94             94              94              94               -
Seasonal                                   50               99             99             99              99             99             99               99               99
Total Repayment                       50              99             193            193            193             193            193              193              99
Income After Repayment                        (10)             82             97             194            251            291             291             291              385
Value of Fam.ly Labor                         153             200            245             255            262            265             265             265              265
Net Income                           143             282             342            449            513             556            556              556             650
Total Family Labor(mandays)                   153             200             245            255            262             265            265              265             265
Net Return/mao, day $                          .9             1.4            1.4             1.8            2.0             2.1            2.1            2.1              2.5
1/ For financial faecgate price.  See Table 5, Annex B.  For yield assumption see Table 2, Annex 1.
 ha development in year 1, 9., ha in year 2.
2/ See Table 8, Annex 1, for basis of Gost.
3/ Development repaid  in B years with 2 years grace and irterest capitaliced at 10%. Seasonal
repaid en of season, 10% flat service charge.
March 21, 1975



Annex 4
To1 bs e3
Pal,> 2
LIBERIA
LOFA COFMTY AGRICULTURAL DEELOPMEFI PROJECT
FARM BUDGET AND CASH _FLOW
I ha Swamp Rice (New Development)
Double Crop
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Sear 5         Year 6       Year 7          Year 8         Year 9
Revenue 1 /
Production Paddy kg                     1,620          3,600          4,500           5,400          5,950          6,300         6,300          6,300          6,300
'value $2Th/tu.r                          342            770             963          1,156          1,273          1,348         1,348          1,348           1,348
. ................................................ ls.
Development Costs 2/
Labour                                   373             47
Materials                                 40              -
Subtotal                         413              47
Seasonal Costs 2/
Labour                                   194            398            418             438            452            458           458            458             458
Materials                                 90            180             180            180            180             180          180            180             180
Subtotal                         284            578             598            618            632             638          638             638            638
Total Costs                           697            625            598             618            632            638          b38             636             36s
Net Before Credit                             (355)           145            365            538             641            710          710             710            710
Credit Receipts
Development                              340             -               -              -               -
Seasonal                                  45             90              90             90              90             90           90             90              90
Total Credit                          385             90              90             90             90              90           90             90              90
Income Before Repaynent                        30             235            455            628             731            800          600             800            Soo
Repayment 3/
Development                               -              -               94             94             94              94           94             94              -
Seasonal                                  50             99              99             99             99              99           99             99              99
Total Repayment                        50             99            193             193            193            193           193            193              99
Income After Repayment                         (20)           136            262            435             542            607          607             607            701
Value of family Labour                        267             398            418            438             452            458          458             458            458
Net Income                            247            534            680             873            994          1,065         1,065          1,065          1,159
Total Family Labour (mandays)                  267            398            418            438             452            458          458             458            458
Net Return p/manday                             .9            1.3            1.6            2.0             2.2            2.3          2.3             2.3            2.5
I/  ha developed in year 1.  in year 2.  For derivation of fin-ncial
farmgate prices see Table 5, Annm 8; for yield assumption see Table 2, Annex 1.
2/ See Table 8, Annex 1 for basis of Costs.
3/ Development repaid in 8 years with 2 years grace end interest capitaLized
at 10%; seamonal repaid end of season at 10%.
March 21, 1975



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget and Cash Flow
1 ha Swamp Rice (Improved Management)
Single Cropping                                             4/                   Double Cropping
Year 0    Year 1       Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5                  Year O    Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
Revenue /
Production (Paddy) kg                 1,500      1,900       2,500      2,800       3,300        3,500                 2,700      3,420        4,500       5,050       5,950       6,300
Value $214/ton                          321        407         535        599         706          749                   578         732         963       1,080       1,273       1,34o
Seasonal Costs 2/
Labor                                   211        233         245        250         262          265                   352         394         418         428         452         458
Materials                                 5        130          90          90         90           90                     5         220          180        180         180         180
Total Costs                      216         363         335        340         352         355                    357        614          598         608         632         638
Net before Credit                       105         44         200        259         354          394                   221         118         365         472         641         710
Credit Receipts                           -          130          90          90         90           90                   -           220           90          90         90          90
Income before Repayment                   105        174         290        349         444          484                   221         338         455         562         731         800
Repayment
Repayrant 3/                              -          143          99          99         99           99                   -           242           99          99          99         99
Income after Repayrent                    105         30         191         250        345          385                   221          96          356        463         632         701
Value of Family Labor                     211        233         245         250        262          265                   352         394          418        428         452         458
Net Income                       316         263        436         500         607         650                    573        490          774         891       1,084       1,159
Total Family Labor(mandays)               211        233         245         250        262          265                   352         394          418         428        452         458
Net Return/manday                        1.5        1.1         1.8         2.0        2.3          2.5                    1.6         1.2          1.9         2.1         2.4         2.5
1/ For financial farmgate Frice see Table 5, Annex 8. For yield assumption
see Table 2, Annex 1.
2X See Table 7 Anrex 1 for basis of costs.                                                                                                                                                ( I
3/ Seasonal loan repaid at end of season at 10%.                                                                                                                                          -r7-
4/ Pre-project
March 21, 1975



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget and Cash Flow
I Ha New Cocoa
Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Year 6       Year 7        Year 8       Year 9       Year 10        Year 11         Year 12         Year 13-30
Revenue
Production (Dry Bean)                        ---                                   200          400           600          BOO          850           850          850              850          850            850
Value $i6972/ton                             _             _                       138          277           415          554          588           588          588              588          588             588
Development Costs 2/          - --            I..............................................-._
Labor                                      140            57           44
Material                                   535           145          126
Sub-Total                            675           202          170
Maintenance Costs
Labor                                                                               52            70           90          110           120          120          120              120          120             120
Materials                                                                          119            20           21           24            28           28            28              28           28              28
Sub-Total                                                                     171           90          111           134          141          146           148              148         148             148
Total Cost                      675          202           170          171           90          111           134          148           148          148              148         148             148
Net Before Credit                         (675)         (202)        (170)         (33)          187          304          420           440          440          440              440          440             440
Credit Receipts
Development                                535          145           126            -             -            -            -             -            -             -
Seasonal                                     -             -            -          119            20           21           24            28           28            28               28          28              28
Total Credit                    535          145           126          119            20           21           24            28           28            28               28          28              28
Income Before Repayment                   (140)          (57)         (44)          86          207            325         444          468           468          468              468          468             468
Repayment 3/
Development                                  -             -            -            -          222           222          222           222          222           222              222         222
Seasonal                                     -             -            -          131            22           23           26            31           31            31               31          31              31
Total Repayment                   -             -            -          131          244           245          248           253          253           253             253          253              31
Income After Repayment                    (140)          (57)         (44)         (45)          (37,          80          193           215          215           215             215          215             437
Value of Family Labor                      140            57           441          52            70           90          110           120          120          120               120         120             120
Income                      -            -            -             7           33          170          306           335          335           335              335         335             557
Total Family Labor (mandeys)               140            57            44          52            70           90          110           120          120           120              120         120             120
Net Return/manday                      -             -            -              .44          .4          1.9           2.8          2.8          2.8           2.8              2.8         2.8             4.6
1;7  For yield assumptio% *nd financil.  f ~rnmi te prices seo Annex 1, Table 2 and Annex 8 Table 5 respectively.                                                                                        >
2/  See Table 12, Annex 1 for basis of Costs.
3i  Development repaid in 12 years with 4 years grace and interest capitalized @ 107'..
Seasonal repaid end of season at 10%.
March 21, 1975



ANNEX 4
LIBERIA                                    Table 6
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget and Cash Flow
1 Ha Rehabilitated Cocoa
Year 0        1        2        3        4         5
Revenue i/
Production (dry Beans)kg  280       400      600       600      600      600
Value $692/ton            193       277      415       415      415      415
Development Costs          *$........................................
Labor                                50       -         -
Materials                           112 -,                    - --
Subtotal                       166       -        -         -        -
Maintenance Costs
Iabor                      50        30       93        91       90       90
Material                    5        -        30        26       34       23
Subtotal              55        30      123      117       124      113
TOTAL COSTS                55       196      123       117      124      113
Net Revenue before Credit   138        81      292       298      291      302
Credit Receipts
Development                -        112       -         -        -        -
Seasonal                             -        30        26       34       23
Total Credit         -        112       30       26        34       23
Income before Repayment     138       193      322       324      325      325
Repayment /
Development                -         45       45        45       -        -
Seasonal                   -         -        33        29       372      25
Total Repayment      -         45       78       74        37       25
Income after Repayment      138       148       244      250      288      300
Value of Family Labor        50        84        93       91       90       90
Net Income                  188       232       337      341      378      390
Total Family Labor(manday)   50        84       93        91       90       90
Net Return per manday       3.8       2.8       3.6      3.7      4.2      4.3
/ See Table 2, Annex 1 for yield assumption and Table 5, Annex 8
for financial faragate prices.
2/ See Table 11, Annex 1, for basis of Cost.
/ Development repaid in 3 years at loZ;
seasonal repaid end of season, service charge 10,,



ANNEX 4
Table 7
LIBERIA
LOE'A COWlNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOMNT PROJECT
Farm Budget and Cash Flow
l Ha New Coffee Planting
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5        Year 6-8    Year 9
Revenue
Production Clean Coffee Kg                         -            -              -         300         900        1,000        1,000
Value .;1028/ton                                   _            _                       308         925         1,028        1,028
Development Cost                                         . .                                                            .$.
Labor                                            145           67           69                         -
Materials                                        430           84           88
Sub-Total                                  575           151          157                         - _          _
Maintenance Costs
Labor                                                                                     97         142          147          147
Materials                                                                                144         144          144          144
Sub Total                                    -             -            -          241         286          291           291
Total Costs                           575          151            157         241         286          291          291
Met Before Credit                               (575)        (151)         (157)         67         639           737          737
Credit Receipts
Development                                      430           84            88            -           -
Seasonal                                                                      -         144          144          144          144
Total Credit                          430           84             88         144         144          144          144
Income Before Repayment                         (145)         (67)          (69)        211         783          881           881
Repayment 3/
-           -         294          294            -
Development                                                     -              -         158         158          158          158
O        O      ~      ~    ~ ~ 0  158        4524518
Total Repayment                         0                                                              452          138
Income After Repayment                          (145)         (67)          (69)         53         331          L29           723
Value of Family Labor                            145           67             69          97         142          147          147
Net Income                                    -            -             -         150         473          576           870
Total Family Labor(x8ndays)                      145           67            69           97         142          147          147
Net Return/manday                                  -             -             -        1.5          3.3          3.9          5.9
i/ See Table 2 Annex 1 for yield assumption and Table 5, Annex 8 for financial farngate prices.
~ISee Table 10 Annex 1 for basis of costs.
%-year grace on. development loan, interest capitalized @ 10%, repaid in the following 4 years.
10% service charge on seasonal loan, repaid at the end of season.



ANNEX 4
LIBERIA                                 Table 8
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget and Cash Flow
1 Ha Rehabilitated Coffee
Year 0        1        2                 I 4      5       6-10
Revenue l/
Production (clean Coffee)kg     280        300      350       450      600      700     700
Value $1028/ton                 288        308       360      463      617      720     720
Development   Costs  ~~~.1...................... .......... US$  . ....  ............  ........  ...........
Development Costs 2/
Labor                                       77
Materials                                  193
Subtotal                                270
Maintenance Costs
Labor                            75         30      102       112      127      137     137
Materials                         5         -       139       136      144      144    1144
Subtotal                      80         30      241       248      271      281     281
Total Costs                        80        300       241      248      271      281     281
Net Before Credit                 208          8      119       215      346      439     439
Credit Receipts
Development                      -         193
Seasonal                         -          -       139      136       1144     144     144
Total Credit                  -         193      139      136       1144     144     144
Income Before Repayment           208        201       258      351      490      583     583
Repayment I
Development                      -          50        50       50       50       50      -
Seasonal                         -          -       153      150       158      158     158
Total Repayment               -          50      203      200       208      208     158
Income After Repayment            208        151        55      151      282      375     425
Value of Family Labor              75        107      102       112      127      137     137
Net Income                   283        258      157       263      409      512     562
Total Family Labor (mandays)       75        107      102       112      127      137     137
Net Return per manday             3.8        2.4       1.5      2.3      3.2      3.7     4.1
/ See Table 2, Annex 1 for yield assumption and Table 5,
Annex 8 for financial farmgate prices.
/ Preproject situation.
/ See Table 9, Annex 1 for basis of costs.
v Development repaid in 5 years at 10 percent.  Seasonal repaid end of season,
flat service charge 10 percent.






LIBERIA                       ANNEX 5
LIBERIA                     Page 1
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
1.        General. The project would be administered by the Minister of
Agriculture and/or the Deputy Minister of Agriculture. In view of the
innovative nature of the project and importance which GOL attaches generally
to both agricultural and rural development, and the number of other
Government ministries with some responsibilities in both of those fields,
a ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be established under
the chairmanship of the Minister of Agriculture for government coordination
and policy determination. The project would be managed by a specially
created Project Management Unit (PMU) within the Ministry of Agriculture.
To ensure adequate lIaison and coordination with the local administration
and project farmers, a Project Advisory Committee (PAC) would be established.
2.        Project Steering Committee (PSC). PSC would consist of the
ministers or their deputies, of agriculture (chairman), finance, planning,
local government and rural development, with the project manager acting as
secretary. The committee would co-opt other ministers or their deputies
for specific project requirements. The committee's objectives would be:
(a) to facilitate cooperation and coordination between GOL
departments concerned directly or indirectly with the
project;
(b) to determine broad issues of policy consistent with
GOL objectives for agricultural and rural development;
(c) to approve changes in appointments and conditions of
service for senior staff;
(d)  to approve annual budgets for project expenditure and
quarterly cash forecasts for submission to Ministry of
Finance;
(e) to receive and review quarterly progress reports from
project manager, and an annual report from the Minister
of Agriculture.
It is proposed that the County Superintendent would attend the PSC meetings
on an informal basis whenever possible to enable him to give a first
hand report on project progress.
3.        Local Administration.  Whilst the County Superintendent does not
have substantial executive powers over the individual government depart-
ments operating in his County, he does have strong political powers and
influence with the local population through the traditional tribal authorities.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
As the cooperation and acceptance of the local population is of crucial
importance to project implementation, PMIJ will work closely with the
County Superintendent and the traditional authorities.  PMU will also
use the good offices of the County Superintendent to foster cooperation
and coordination with government departments involved directly or
indirectly in the project; namely, health (schistosomiasis control
and wells), public works (roads), education (farmer training), local
government and rural development (wells and farmer involvement).
GOL would be kept informed of local response and reaction to the project
by the County Superintendent.
4.        Project Advisory Committee.  To promote local acceptance and
cooperation, a Project Advisory Committee (PAC) would be established in
Lofa County, which would comprise the County Superintendent (chairman),
the four popularly elected paramount chiefs of the county, presidents of
the four farmer cooperatives, the project manager and his deputy, with
the project evaluation and planning officer acting as secretary.
The committee would meet monthly and would allow PItiU to explain and
discuss its plans and problems, and to give informal progress reports.
At the same it would encourage participation of farmers and their traditional
leaders by providing an opportunity for them to express reaction to
project proposals, and to make suggestions for improvements both in
project implementation and marketing arrangements.
5.        Project Management Unit.  The project will be managed by
a project management unit (PMU) to be located at Voinjama in the project
area and headed by a project manager responsible to the Minister of
Agriculture through the project steering committee.  The PMU will operate
initially as an independent unit within the Ministry of Agriculture with
its own budget and bank account. PMU will consist of six operating
divisions: administration, finance, training, cooperative and credit,
land development, and agriculture. Details of the organization and.
the areas of responsibility are set out in the attached organization
chart. Project manager will be assisted by a deputy who would have
specific operational responsibili.ty for the administration and finance
divisions including preparation of annual budgets; additionally the project
manager will be supported by an evaluation and planning unit whose
functions would, among others, include collection of data for planning by
the operating divisions, formulation of annual work programs and their
monitoring, and the evaluation otf project performance.
6.        Administration Transitions.  Project organization has been
designed:
(a)  to place commercial services in the hands of farmer
organizations, with appropriate support from LPMC,
from project inception to ensure their continuity
after project development without substantial Government
intervention or financial assistance;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(b) to provide a self sustaining credit facility and organization
in the project area for seasonal credit after project
development, whilst development loans funds will be
progressively released to GOL for further agricultural
development following loan repayment;
(c)  to facilitate orderly transfer of project extension services
either directly to the Ministry of Agriculture or to a
rural development authority if created by the end of the
project development period.
A major component of the project is institution building for the
implementation of further agricultural and rural development. The
project provides for recruitment and training in excess of immediate
project needs to strengthen Liberia's agricultural development capability.
As part of the Agricultural Development and Technical Assistance Project
(306-LBR), a study is currently in progress to reorganize and strengthen
the Ministry of Agriculture. The report should be completed by the end
of 1975 but it is not possible to determine at this stage the form of
its recommendations. It is clear however that MA will need to strengthen
its organization for the implementation and monitoring of future
agricultural development by the establishment of either a separate division
within the ministry or a separate organization responsible to the
minister of agriculture if it is to retain staff recruited and trained
under the project. Without anticipating the recommendations of the
reorganization study, present MA thinking favors the establishment of a
semi autonomous rural development authority responsible to the Minister
of Agriculture for implementation of agricultural development and special
projects, whilst operational responsibility for planning, design and moni-
toring of such developments would remain with the strengthened and reorganized
Ministry. The framework of a possible rural development authority_is
detailed in Appendix 1 of this Annex, together with the transitional
arrangement for this project.
7.        Staffing.  Details of staff number required for the project are
set out in Table 1 and job descriptions for the three key staff members,
namely, thy project manager, training and development controller and the
agricultural manager are detailed in Appendices 2, 3, and 4. All present
Lofa County agricultural staff with the exception of those working
directly on the MA special projects would be transferred to PMU, together
with the surplus staff from LPMC's tree crop program in Lofa County
following transfer of coffee and cocoa extension responsibility from
LPMC to PMU. However in view of the known shortage of trained and
experienced agricultural staff, the project will need to recruit from both
high schools and the University of Liberia suitable candidates for training
by the project. In view of existing trained staff shortages, project
provides for:
(a) retroactive financing for early appointment of the
training and development controller prior to credit
effectiveness;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(b) the phasing of the farm and crop development program
permit PMU concentration on staff recruitment and
training in year 1.
(c)  substantial project training facilities and capability,
with support from existing Liberian facilities, to permit
project to train sufficient staff for this project and
future agricultural development projects.
As Liberian senior management skills are also in short supply, project
provides for up to ten internationally recruited staff to fill the
positions of project manager, managers of the six operating divisions,
cooperative training officer, evaluation and planning officer, and head
of the schistosomiasis unit in the event that suitably qualified
Liberians are not available. A Liberian counterpart will be appointed
for all positions filled initially by internationally recruited staff.
In addition to other duties, the internationally recruited staff member
will be required to train his counterpart for succession within an
agreed period.
B. Training
Summary
8.        Results from long formal training courses cannot have any
practical effect for some years--too late to meet immediate needs. A
combination of on-the-job training with short courses in technical and
administrative aspects is feasible and the method recommended. Project
organization would include a strong training element under the overall
control of a very experienced ofEicer (probably expatriate) to:
(a)  assist operational officers with their "in-field"
on-job training;
(b) establish a small but efficient interdisciplinary
administrative training center in the Project
area;
(c) procure or produce extension aids and teaching
materials;.
(d) prepare curricula for short specialized technical
training courses to be held at the Agricultural
Extension Training Center and arrange details
and selection of trainees to attend these courses,
and at CAES, Suakoko; and
(e) operate a farmer training center--sited jointly
with the seed multiplication farm.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
9.        The Agricultural Extension Training Center, near Mionrovia, needs
an extra 15-bed dormitory specifically available to meet project needs.
10.       Functioning of staff at the intermediary levels should be at
least 30% above the strict project establishment needs. Training should
be undertaken with a view to supplying staff beyond the Lofa area.
11.       Interdisciplinary understanding should be one of the objectives
of the training program.
General
12.       In the longer term, Liberia probably needs a School of Agriculture
running two year courses, leading to Certificate Technicians (rather than
current weak Extension Aides) for intermediate staffing of agricultural
advisory services and allied support services in the small farm sector;
i.e. a multi-disciplinary approach with its base in agriculture. Such a
school will require time to set up, particularly as any curricula will
need to be carefully designed to meet Liberia's specific needs. Several
years will therefore elapse before it is practicable to anticipate a
regular output of trained personnel via a prgressive, fully integrated
formal system.
13.       In the short-term, it will be necessary to develop manpower
skills through a combination of on-job training and short, more formal
classroom courses in technical and administrative aspects. Such an
approach presupposes three prerequisites: (a) an interdisciplinary field
organization capable of absorbing trainees; (b) facilities and academic
personnel capable of teaching short courses of a specialized technical
nature; and (c) administrative staff training facilities. None of these
are fully available at present, but the Lofa County project would include
components to provide the necessary framework.
The Agricultural Extension Training Center (AETC) near Monrovia
14.       The center is operated jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture
and the University of Liberia. The Center has two classrooms, dormitories
for 22 men and 18 women, catering facilities, etc., and administrative
offices (used mainly by University personnel pending the construction of
a planned Agricultural Faculty campus adjacent to the Center). Adjacent
to the Center is a well equipped forestry school and laboratories. The
Center carries out the growing of tree crops and swamp/irrigation rice
cultivation on a small scale. The regular staff include several home
economics instructors, two rice and vegetable instructors and a forestry
instructor; however, provided prearrangements have been made, staff from
the faculty of agriculture are also available. The Center was/is designed
to cover short courses in Rome Economics, Rural Youth, Forestry, Rice
Tree Crops and orientation courses for Peace Corps Volunteers. Apparently,
current emphasis is placed on home economics, nutrition, etc.,--not deli-
berately, but due to poor coordination in the Ministry of Agriculture in
specifying short course curricula and nominating trainees.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
15.       The Lofa County project provides for a design system for short
(say six weeks) specific technical courses and the selection, transport
and subsistence needs of trainees; including construction of an additional
15 bed dormitory to enable the Agricultural Extension Training Center to
teach the technical needs of staff at the intermediary level. On-job
trainee staff would be sent by the Project to the Center for one, two or
three short courses a year--on a progressive learning basis in tune
with seasonal activities in the 1'roject area.
16.       On-job Training.  The management and organizational structure of
the project would be designed towards long-term continuity (see Appendix 1
para 1 (b) and 4 (a) (ii)) which would allow project implementation to
provide the opportunity for on-job training covering a wide level of
interdisciplinary understanding.
17.       Staff Training Center.  To cater for the administrative training
requirements of all personnel the structure of the project would include
a new (albeit small) Staff Training Center at Voinjama. The Center would
provide courses in simple work programming techniques; the value of, need
for and understanding of usage of reporting and feedback systems; elementary
accounting--and the place a particular section of accounts has in the
broader account system; stock inventory control system--and why; public
relations techniques (especially for agricultural advisory staff and
credit/cooperative workers; committee procedures--composition, objectives,
minute recordinig, etc.). The Center would also run short orientation courses
for new personnel. Courses at the Center would be short, not more than
ten days, many being of the two to three day type but with periodic repeti-
tions at slightly and gradually advanced levels. Divisional managers would
assist the Center both in devising curricula and by giving short lectures.
18.       Extension Aids and Teaching Materials.  The combination of on-job
training with short technical and administrative courses will demand the
provision of high quality (simple subject matter) extension aids type of
teaching materials and the officer responsible for overall training will
place considerable emphasis on the procurement or production of these
materials.
19.       Farmer Training Center (FTC).  Essentially, the extension agents
form a part of a continuous farmer training system, however certain specifics
(e.g. new swamp rice production technology) at better taught, in the early
stages, to groups of farmers at a simply designed FTC. Courses at this
sort of center would be short (about 10 days) and be in tune with current
seasonal activities, i.e. a lesson learnt may be immediately put into
practice. The courses should be of a practical nature--which implies
farming activity at the Center itself, with the farming activity carried
out with the same level/standards of tools, equipment and other resources
that are readily available to farmers in general, i.e. it would be worse
than ulseless to demonstrate good cultivation practices by even minor
mechnaical means if the farmer has to go home and use a hoe. It is
strongly recommended that farmers and wives attend courses jointly.
Course content can be partly combined and in part male or female
specific consistent with local traditions.



ANNEX 5
Page  7
20.        Siting of FTC with Seed Multiplication Unit.  A proposed component
of the project is parent seed multiplication--and, probably, tree crop
seedlings. As seed multiplication will inevitably involve "farmer seed
multipliers: and as logistics indicate economics of small dispersed seeding
tree crop nurseries; it is recommended that parent seed multiplication and
some minor seedling nursery activities be sited jointly with the Farmer
Training Center. (Note, the Center can also be used for staff training
aspects). This presupposes that the "seed multiplication farm" (initial
parent seed) would not have sophisticated cultivation equipment, but the
similar resources as available to 'farmer seed multiplication". However,
the seed multiplication farm or from "farmer seed multipliers".
Funding of Trainees
21.       On-job training, of the type suggested, would inevitably cause
some logistical problems for management when staff members are away on
courses, thus provision would be made for some duplication of personnel,
related to "established" posts. Using the project area as a training
ground also implies a steady drain of trained people to other projects/
areas from the "established" cadre. Therefore, it is recommended that
the project provides funding for at least 30% more staff annually at
all intermediary levels than would be strictly necessary to fill
Testablishment" needs.
22.       Emphasis on Interdisciplinary Trianing. Whilst in the initial
stages, temptations to try and do too much at one time should be avoided,
nevertheless the value derived from a ready understanding all project
activities and problems warrants the wider curricular approach.



ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Page 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Development Authority
1.        Introduction.  It seems desirable to set up in Liberia a semi-
autonomous Rural Development Authority (RDA) to:
(a) implement specific area programs/projects in the small
farm sector, with a degree of autonomy and flexibility;
also with the capability of maintaining the initial
development thrust in the post-project period, through
a system of self-financing;
(b) avoid the tendency, or possibility, of creating a
succession of Project Management Units, which in many
respects would duplicate, or compete with, each other for
top management expertise, in training needs and in the
source of their respective powers;
(c) influence Government's pricing policies to the extent
that they may affect the small farmers' interests and
consequent development;
(d) plan and coordinate a phased National Rural Development
program, area by area, consistent with resource avail-
ability, manpower and logistical constraints and the
diversity of ecological and social patterns in the
respective areas; and
(e)  create an institution tnrough which donor agencies
may channel rural development efforts in a cohesive
and coordinated manner.
Evolution of Roles
2.        It is envisaged that the RDA would initially concentrate on small
farmer productive-farming systems, together with the necessary support serv-
ices, but would also gradually evolve an institution building role so that
social services, road maintenance and decentralized local government would
become more effective, self-reliant and wel1 coordinated (but without Govern-
ment relinquishing major policy control).
3.        This secondary role is envisaged as being effected more through
influence than direct action, albeit RDA could well be a vehicle for chanmel-
ling funds to "local councils," self-help social efforts, etc. Influence of
RDA towards this end will arise as the result of two main probabilities:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(a)  demand for more or improved social services is likely
to increase progressively and in line with increased
income levels; lack of provision of such services becomes
a constraint to maintaining productivity; and
(b)  certain instances will probably arise where the provision
of a social service is a prerequisite in the motivation of
farmers towards adopting improved production techniques.
4.        Current Considerations.  In considering the present situation and
the desirability of a Rural Development Authority, the following should be
kept in mind:
(a) successful implementation of the Lofa County project will
require a Project Management Unit which:
(i) will be relatively expensive;
(ii) will take some considerable time to put together
as a team (including staff training);
(iii)  will have a potential capacity, both in manpower
and logistical support, well beyond the requirement
of Lofa County taken in isolation--in the longer
term; and
(iv) could and should be created with the object of
implementing other RD projects in Liberia--parti-
cularly and initially in the "upper counties;"
(b)  development of smallholder farming systems through a combination
of: extension (agricultural advice); on-farm verification
trials; farmer training centers; seed multiplication; coopera-
tive marketing, farm input and credit systems; together with
necessary coordination of these activities, is unlikely to be
achieved through an agency such as LPMC which (correctly) has
a strictly commercial bias in all management functions and
which should concentrate on efficient bulk marketing, bulk
input supplies and possibly development of "nucleus estate'"
type of production--if it enters the production field at all;
(c)  the ministries of the GOL are poorly structured to implement
policy decisions themselves at the detailed planning and
coordination level necessary in the small farm sector;
(d)  the extremely small budgetary provisions made by the Ministry
of Agriculture, and the lack of logistical support, make it
extremely unlikely that direct Ministry action can or will
exploit the potential of any initiated developments in their
crucial "follow-up" phases; and



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 3
(e) in the longer term "on-going" activities, following the
initial thrust of development, should be self-financing
and avoid the bureaucratic burdens inevitable in any
support system which is extremely dependent on financial
allocations from regular government revenues.
Establishing the Rural Development Authority
5.        RDA will require establishment and will need to obtain its powers
through the promulgation of a suitable Law or Ordinance. It will therefore
be wise to thoroughly explore what its powers should be, the composition of
a Board of Directors, and how RDA might maintain flexibility within such
changing circumstances as can be foreseen.
6.        The Law or Ordinance establishing RDA will need to include (amongst
other issues) a scheduling system, whereby the Minister responsible (or
possibly the President) has powers, merely by reference to the Ordinance,
to schedule or reschedule from time to time:
(a)  the land area (s) within which the Authority's powers
are operative--each area would form a division (e.g. Lofa
County area would be scheduled initially but subsequent
rescheduling would include other areas as activities
progressively expand);
(b) smallholder crops for which RDA may exercise its powers
and direct its efforts, e.g. initially rice, cocoa and
coffee (in Lofa County), but rescheduled to include other
crops if desired as initial focus on these three becomes
effective and allows diversification of effort;
(c) such livestock programs as may be desirable. It is
envisaged that these will be deferred for-some time.
(d)  social components which RDA may support financially,
logistically or administratively--initially these
would include support to cooperatives, credit, etc.
(N.B. The object of this scheduling system would be
to avoid overburdening too soon, allowing strong focus
on key issues and avoiding diffusion of effort and
resources-- particularly in the early years).



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 4
Finances
7.        Whilst RDA will require some subventions from Government and on-
lent funds from donor agencies, for initiation and development purposes
(provision for the mechanics of which should be allowed for in drafting the
Ordinance), nevertheless the financing of "maintenance" (post-project) activ-
ities should be funded from revenues accruing to the RDA and arising from
development levies on such items as swamps usage for rice/vegetables. (This
latter presupposes that a system of swamp registration would be built up
during the development phase(s).
8.        Whilst RDA would be allowed some discretion as to where it holds
liquid assets, nevertheless emphasis would be given to assist the development
of local banking and savings institutions--or assisting the viability of a
local branch of a major development bank.
9.        Guideline Ordinances.  In drafting the necessary Law/Ordinance
setting up the Rural Development Authority, efforts should be made to draw
on the experience of other countries; e.g. there may well be merit in examin-
ing, for guideline purposes, the Special Crops (or Scheduled Crops) Ordinance
that was applicable in Kenya in 1968 (may still be operative) and also examine
how the successful Kenya Tea Development Authority derives its powers and
financial structure.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Job Description and Qualifications - Project Manager
1.        General.  The Project Manager is the officer with overall respon-
sibility for the execution of the project; he will also be the secretary of
the Project Steering Committee (comprised of four senior ministers), which
is the policy-making body for the project; he will be responsible for insuring
close liaison and understanding between the project and related agencies of
government particularly those operative in Lofa County; as a member of the
local Project Advisory Committee, he will be required to attain full local
participation in the project activities, and advise on and assist local institu-
tions that may complement or affect the successful attainment of project objec-
tives.
2.        Organization.  Project activities have been divided into six func-
tional divisions each headed by a senior officer and the initial sib-divisional
activities have been outlined. The Project Manager will control, direct and
coordinate the work of the respective senior divisional officers and suitably
adjust, from time to time, sub-organizational aspects in the light of manpower
limitations, logistical factors and priorities that may evolve during project
implementation. The six functional divisions are:
(i) Finance: Including the control of and accountability for
all project funds; procurement of contracts and supplies
(including some under international bidding procedures);
obtaining reimbursement of expenditures from the Inter-
national Development Association, the American Agency for
International Development and Government of Liberia contri-
butions;
(ii) Agricultural Production: Includes the operation for an
agricultural advisory service with allied field research
trials (initially on rice, cocoa and coffee); seed
production or procurement, and tree crops seedling
nurseries;
(iii) Land Development: Inc:luding land-use planting; swamps
development (water control); map production; feeder road
alignment;
(iv) Commercial Operations: Including development and training
of cooperatives, especially in respect to marketing and
credit issue/recovery systems; liaison with bulk marketing
and farm input supply agencies or enterprises.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
(v) Training. To train staff at all levels and relevant
disciplines--this division includes a staff training
center; curricula preparation for technical courses;
a large on-job training component for each division;
and a small farmer training center; and
(iv) General Administration. Includes staff recruitment
and their terms of service and discipline; office
management; transport control; and public relations.
In addition he would have the supoort of a Performance Audit and Planning
Unit which would cover work programming, monitoring and evaluation; internal
project implementation planning and liaison planning for future projects.
3.        Reporting.  The Project Manager will carry out his responsibilities
under the overall policy direction of the project Steering Committee; between
committee meetings he will report, as may be necessary, to the committee
chairman (the Minister of Agriculture); he will prepare brief monthly pro-
gress and financial reports for the chairman, with copies to the other
committee members and to the chairman of the local Project Advisory Committee.
The Project Manager will prepare comprehensive quarterly and annual reports
for members of the Project Steering Committee, with copies for IDA and for
USAID.
Qualifications
4.        (a)  Technical Qualifications:
(i) age preferably between 35 and 50 years;
(ii) practical experience, of several years dura-
tion, in the organization and operation of
agricultural or marketing enterprises; or
at a very senior level with a government
department or comparable agency; and
(iii) a high degree of technical specialization is
not required, although a degree in Agriculture
and Bsiness Administration would be of advant-
age. However, in addition to administrative
ability the candidate must be able to demonstrate
sound experience and knowledge of at least
three of the functional divisional activities
in the job description and should also have
some working knowledge of the remainder.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
(b) General Qualifications:
(i)  candidates must be in good health;
(ii) candidates must have demonstrated ability to
form sound judgements and work independently
on their own initiative;
(iii) candidates must be proficient in the English language; and
(iv)  candidates must have residential experience in ad
developing country, preferably in tropical Africa.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Job Description and Qualifications
Training and Development Controller
1.        General.  The Lofa Project aims at promoting increased productivity
and improved living standards of small scale farmers in the area through a
combination of advice, promotion of cooperatives and the provision of support
services such as credit, farm input supplies and marketing systems. A large
component of the Lofa Project is on-job staff training covering several dis-
ciplines, but with the main technical emphasis on agriculture and allied
activities. The Training and Development Controller will be responsible for
drawing up overall training plans, advising on training strategy, preparing
technical course curricula and generally developing an on-job training system
compatible with Liberia's needs, particularly for the Lofa Project and similar
future projects of an agricultural/rural development nature.
Specific Duties
2.   (a)  Design and administer a small administrative staff-training
center at Voinjama capable of running short courses for
on-job trainees on a progressive learning basis. Course
content would vary in sophistication from elementary to
intermediary levels and would include programming tech-
niques, reporting and feedback systems, accounting stock
inventory control, public relations (especially for agri-
cultural advisory staff and credit/cooperative workers) and
committee procedures;
(b) prepare curricula for suitable short specialized technical
courses to be held at the Agricultural Extension Training
Center (outside Monrovia) at CAES, Suakoko, the University
of Liberia and at other existing training institutes.
Liaise on technical training with the AETC, the University
and other suitable bodies. Administer arrangements for
the selection, transport, etc., of trainees attending
such courses;
(c) advise and assist other senior divisional officers of the
project on interdivisional on-job training matters. These
include finance (accounts, stores, procurement, stores
control, etc.,); commercial (cooperative/credit staff
dealing with cooperative development, credit issues/
recovery, marketing and small farm input supply systems);
land development (land use, swamp water control, map



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 2
production and feeder road alignment); agricultural
production (advisory staff, field research, seed produc-
tion and nurseries); performance audit and planning;
(d)  prepare or procure suitable high quality (simple subject
matter) extension aids and teaching materials;
(e)  supervise the design and operation of a small farmer
training center; and
(f)  advise and assist the Project Manager with the on-job
training of deputies (counterparts) to senior positions
in the project.
3.        Reporting.  The Training and Development Controller will be
responsible to and subject to the direction of the Project Manager and will
render to him such reports, plans, discussion papers and financial estimates
as he, the Project Manager, may require.
Qualifications
4.   (a)  Technical Qualifications:
(i)  Age preferably between 35 and 50 years;
(ii) a degree in agriculture and preferably with
a post-graduate qualification in extension
techniques;      -
(iii)  practical experience of training in developing
countries, preferably tropical Africa; and
(iv) practical administrative experience in a senior
position with an agricultural, marketing or
cooperative enterprise; or in a senior position
within a government department or comparable
agency.
(b)  General Qualifications:
(i)  Candidates must be in good health;
(ii) candidates must have demonstrated ability
to form sound judments and to work independ-
ently on their own initiative; and
(iii)  candidates must be proficient in the English
language.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
Page 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Job Description and Qualifications
Agricultural Manager
1.        General. The Lofa Project aims at increasing the productivity
and raising the living standards of small scale farmers in the project area
through a combination of agricultural advice, promotion of cooperatives and
the provision of support services such as credit, farm input supply and mar-
keting systems. The Agricultural Manager will head that division of the
project which promotes on-farm productivity and output quality. Initially,
concentrating on rice, cocoa and coffee.
Specific Duties
2.   (a)  Establish and direct an agricultural advisory
service in the project area. This service will
have direct contact with farmers by demonstration
and through the promotion of group activity, train
farmers in the advantages of improved technology and
encourage the adoption of suitable new productive
practices;
(b) liaise with national research activities, plan and
implement suitable fitld (at farmer level) verifica-
tion trials with the object of establishing the most
suitable crop varieties and production technology
compatible with the climate, soils and social aspects
of the project area;
(c) investigate, develop, and implement improved on-farm
'harvesting, crop storage and crop processing techniques;
(d) procure or produce and distribute the farmers' seed
requirements; procure or produce tree crop seedlings and
arrange distribution; encourage and supervise farmer group
activity so that farmers may become self-sufficient in seed
multiplication and tree crop seedlings in the longer term;
(e) in liaison with the Commercial Division of the project
(cooperatives, credit supply ane marketing) and in accord-
ance with annual plans prepare estimates of farm input
supply requirements; and marketable surpluses;



ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
Page 2
(f) with the advice and assistance of the Training and
Development Controller, plan and implement an on-job
training program for divisional staff members. Assist
the training division in devising suitable short admin-
istrative staff training courses and in preparing
curricula for technical courses to be held outside the
project area;
(g) liaise with the Training Division on the operation of a
farmer training center;
(h) liaise with the Land Development Officer on swamp
development land use planning; and
(i) prepare monthly, quarterly and annual work plans together
with financial estimates, manpower and logistical require-
ments.
3.        Reporting.  The Agricultural Manager will be responsible to and
subject to the direction of the Project Manager and will render to him such
reports, plans, discussion papers and estimates as he, the Project Manager,
may require.
Qualifications
4.   (a)  Technical Qualifications:
(i) Age preferably between 35 and 50 years;
(ii) a degree in agriculture, also a post-graduate
qualification (or substantial practical
experience in tropical crops, particularly
rice, cocoa and coffee and oil palm);
(iii) practical administrative experience at a
senior level in operating an extension service,
or comparable experience with an agricultural
enterprise;
(iv) practical experience in conducting research
experiments in a developing country, prefer-
ably tropical Africa; and
(v) candidates should have an understanding of farm
production economics, farm management and farming
systems and agricultural finance.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
Page 3
(b) General Qualifications:
Mi) Candidates must be in good health;
(ii) candidates must have demonstrated ability to
form sound judgments and to work independently
on their own initiative;
(iii)  candidates must be proficient in the English
language; and
(iv) it is important that candidates have a sense of
tact and diplomacy.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff  Requirements
Trained
Post Development Requirements         senior
Annual                                                                                        sta'ff
Cost         Year 1       2        3       4        5           6           7 onwards       available
1. PMU -  Voin,jama                      (UST'OOO)
Project manager                        45.0               1      1        1       1        1
Deputy                              10.0               1      1        1       1        1                                             1
Administrative manager                 40.0               1      1        1       1        1
Deputy                               9.0               1      1        1       1        1                                             1
Finance manager                        40.0               1      1        1       1        1
Deputy                               9.0               1      1        1       1        1                                             1
Performance audit/planning             40.0               1      1        1       1        1
Deputy                               8.O               1      1        1       1        1                                             1
Planning aides                          2.0               3      3        3       2        2                                             3
Bookkeeper/cashier                      2.5               2      2        2       2        2                                             2
Bookkeeping assistants                  2.0               3      3        3       3        3                                             3
Monrovia
Procurement officer                     4.0               1      1        1       1        1                                             1
2. Training
Training development officer           40.0               1      1        1       1        1
Deputy                               8.0               1      1        1       1        1                                             1
Instructors                             5.0               2       2       2        2       2                                             2
Superintendents                         3.5               2      2        2       2        2                                             2
Matrons                                 2.0               2       2       2        2       2                                             2
3. Land Planning
Land use officer                       40.0               1      1        1        -       -            -           --
Deputy                               6.0               1      1        1       1        1            -          -                     1
Surveyors                               4.5               3      3        3       3        -            2          2                     1
Mapping assistant                       2.5               2       2       2        2       -            2           2
4. Agriculture
Production manager                     40.0               1      1        1       1        1            -          -
Deputy                               9.0               1      1        1       1        1            -          -1
Field experiments officer               5.0               1      1        1       1        1            -          -                     1
Field experiments asst. officer /1    2.5                 3      3        3       3        3            1          1                     2
Extension agent                         6.0               1      1        1       1        1            1          1
Extension field supervisors             2.5               2      3        5       7        5            5          4                     3
Extension aides                         2.0              33     64      100     138       70           70         5f                    80
Nurseries officer                       3.0               -      1        1       1        1            1          1
5. Cooperative and Credit
Commercial manager                     45.o               1      1        1       1        1            -
Co-op/credit training dfficers         60.0               1      1        1       -        -            -          -
Co-op/credit officers                   5.0               4      6        4       4        4            1          1                     5
Co-op/credit field supervisors          2.5               3      3        4       5        3            3          3                     2
Co-op/credit field officers             2.0              14     32       50      69       35          30          30                    39
6. Roads and Transport
Road supervisor                         5.0               1       1       1        1       1            1           1
Workshop foremen                        3.0               1      1        1        1       1            1          1
Grader operator                         2.5               1       1       1        1       1            1           1
Pickup driver                           1.5               2       2       2        2       2            1           1
Mechanics                               2.0               6       8       8        8       8            3           2                    6
Foreman                                 2.0               1      1        1       1        1            1           1
TOTAL                                  109    164      219     276      164          124         110                  161
/1 One officer for each crop.



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE
Mlnisters (or their Deputies) of:
Agriculture (Chairman)
Finance                                 STEERING
Plan-ng                                  COMMITTEE
LocaI Gov. and Rural D-elope
Protect Manager (Secretary)
Coun.ty Suprrintendens (Chairman)
REVOLVING CREDIT                               pROJECT                           PROJECT            Para-ount  Chieft (41
FUND                  _      _-_  _  _  _      MANAGER          *                ADVISORY          > Co-op Presidents (3-4)
(MANAGED BY LBDI)                                                                COMMITTEE           Projet Manager And Depnty
PeForm ...ance A.dit/Pla.-t lS-cetarY)
| DEPUTY PROJfECT                                                                                                                                                                                                           EVALUATION          
MANAGER                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AND PLANNING OFFICER|
fWork Programs
Evaluation,  ate Collection
Internal Audit
COMM hCIAL
pX  <  |  MANAGER t | ME" "< | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L   OELO| AGRICULTURALl
ADMINISTRATIONNGNANC        MANMAGER                          LMAN
AT] ON    FINANCE                      T~~~EVELOPM ENT               (ABET REGISTRAR                   DEVELOPMENT                                                           POUTO
MANAGER                , ~~ONTROLLER                 O~DF COOP.)                     OFFICERMA GE
Personnel                         Project Accounts              Staff Training Center           Cooperatines Development          Swamp D-elopment
Retistry end Communication        Re-olning Credit FundtLBDI     Farmer Training Center         Credit Issues/                       (Water Control)
Heasing                           Audit of Ca-ups               Carricala Preparation              Recovery (Ce-npe               Land Use Planning
Office Management                 Procurement                   A.E T.C. Training Courses       Crop Mahkoting and                Map Production/                           FIELD EXPERIMENTS,         EXTENSION SERVICE            SEED PRODUCTION/
Transport Control                 IDA Reimbursement             New Staff Induction             Farm Input Liaison                   Procurement                            DEMONSTRATION              ON-FARM                             REMENT
Publhc Relations                     and G.O.L.                    Coarses                         with L P.M.C.                  Feeder Road                               AND RESEARCH               PROCESSING                   NURSERIES
Discipline and                       Contrihutions               Farmer to Farmer                                                    Alignment
Secarity                       Budgetary Control                 Visits                                                         Liaison With                                  Liaison with                                      Liaison with
Stores                        Extension Aids and                                                   Coanty Surveys                                Suakoko                                            Suakoko/NSA- (Riced
Materials                                                                                                                                                      L P.M.C. (Tree Crop
SWlclrngsl
-Nat-oal Seed
World Benh-9718IRI






page 1L
LIBERtIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperatives
A. Background
1.         In 1936 the Liberian National Legislature amended chapter two of
the Association Law to create a Government Agency for promotion of Cooeera-
tives.  ITowever, the Act was never implemented and the Cooperative movement
was dormant until 1970 when the M4inistry of Agriculture created a Cooperative,
Credit and iMarketing Division, within its organizational structure. The
Division is headed by a Director, who is also the Registrar of Cooperative
societies, and has three sections, each headed by an Assistant Director, with
the following responsibilities:
(a)  Cooperative Section:  To encourage and educate farmers to
form Cooperative Societies for agricultural development, to
register such societies in Liberia, and to supervise and
guide their operations including audit of their accounts.
(b) Credit Section: To provide individual and cooperative
credit to farmers and to coordinate credit activities
between the government credit program, and other financial
institutions.
(c) I4arketing Section: To assist producers in marketing farm
produce, protect them from exploitation of middlenen
and assist the Ministry of Commerce and Liberian Produce
Marketing Corporation in formulating prices for Agricultural
Produce.
2.         The first Cooperative Society was registered on April 19, 1971.  By
the end of 1972 there were 11 registered societies, 47 (31 farmer cooperatives
and 16 credit societies) at the end of 1973 and 62 (40 farmer cooperatives and
22 credit societies) at the end of 1974. Presently there are about 8,900
members of Farmaer Cooperatives and 4,000 in Credit societies. In addition, the
Voinjama District FarmerstCooperative Society has established a rural savings
bank (opened November 1, 1974) and its daily turnover ranges between $5,000 -
$10,000. As of January 18, 1975, it had 140 accounts and deposits amounted
to $27,500.
3.         The Cooperative, Credit and M4arketing Division is grossly under-
staffed, ill equipped and poorly funded even to perfora its supervisory role.
The present staff consists of 12 field cooperative officers, assigned to olly
five counties, and two supervisors, none of whom have appropriate qualifications,
training and/or background. Fortunately, the Cooperative movement has



ANNEX 6
Page 2
rp Lrct: -e  rpeace -orrs voln-nteers as supervisors, managers and
accountants.  Most of these voluntieers receive 2 months training and orier.ta-
tion in Liberia on cooperative mat-ers. Cooperative members have played a
largely passive role, management being in the hands of the few leaders in
the area.
4.        Cooperatives in Liberia Ire primarily active in marketing of agri-
cultural products, mostly export -.^ops (excluding rubber) and rice.  They are
the sole licensed buying agents of LPMC which places them in a quasi-monopolis-
tic position for coffee, cocoa and palm kernel marketing (see Annex 8).  Their
involvement in providing direct farm support for technological change has been
limited except for the Intofawor Farmers Cooperative which has been actively
invoLzed in the implementation of -'he Foya Rice Project.  The Gbandi Farmers
Cooperative has also been involved on a limited scale in the distribution of
farm inputs (during 1973-74 about 25 tons of fertilizer and 22,000 lbs of seed
rice) to farmers in the AGRIMECO c:leared areas.
B.  Cooperatives in the Project Area
5.        In Lofa County there are six Cooperatives, four of which are in
the project area:
- The lntofawor Farmers Cooperative Society Ltd., Foya
Airfield (1190 members on December 31, 1974).
- The Voinjama District Farmers Cooperative Society Ltd.,
Voinjama (1h28 members on January 17, 1975).
- The Gbandi Farmers Cooperative Society Ltd., Kolahun
(747 members on January 21, 1975).
- Zorzor District Farmers Cooperative, Zorzor
(approximately 350 members).
The financial position of these societies at the end of 1974 was
as follows:
Financial Position of the 4 Cooperatives
in the Pro.ject Area (1974 Audit)
Cooperative         Assets          Surplus          Reserves       Turnover
-__    _ ___    ___   __  *     _  __ _   __   _ _  __$1000 --
Intofawor Farmers
Cooperative          583.h          41.8               10.5           876.2
Voinjama District
Farmers Cooperative  104.6           77.1              19.3         1,364.3
Gbandi Farmers
Cooperative           52.0          16.4                4.1
Zorzor District
Farmers Cooperative   15.1            2.5               o.6            49.9
All Cooperatives in
Liberia              883.3          203.7              50.9         3,138.5
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.



ANBIEX 6
Page 3
6.         Except for Zorzor District Cooperative , the societies in the
Project area are generally better managed than those in other counties.  However,
the trading surpluses are largely due to the export crop marketing monopoly of
the Cooperatives in the project area (see para 4.) and LPFC commissions,
handling and transport ail.owances.  They also receive LPMC credit facilities
-or marketing operations :Intofawor received $70,000 and Gbandi $60,000,
information 'an others not obtained) for the 1973-74 marketing season.
The Cooperatives are building warehouses from their own and/or bor-
rowed financial resources. Intofawor Cooperative already owns 144' x 36' ware-
house (besides a small rice mill and two power tillers); Voinjama Cooperative
is constructing a 60' x 160' x 24' warehouse from its own funds and the Gbandi
Cooperative is completing construction of a 1hh' x 36' x 16' warehouse with
an IBDT loan.
C. Project Pro2osals for Cooperatives
7.         To involve existing institutions in project implementation the
four cooperatives in the area would be responsible for:
(a) mobilizing the interest and particip.tion of farmers and
organizing them into small village groups or cooperatives;
(b) organizing an effective system for delivery of inputs to
participating farmers and credit distribution and recovery;
(c) providing assembly, storage, transportation , handling
and other marketing functions particularly for export crops.
8.         The four cooperatives in the project area are geographically well
distributed and participating farmers will have to be memoers of any of the
societies of Zorzor, Voinjama, Kolahun or Foya; however, at a later-stage, the
two other acieties in the County (Bopolu and Gbarma District Farmers Coopera-
tives) may ailso be included.
9.         The management and staff of the district cooperatives in thae
project area will have to be expanded and trained to handle the increased
volune of inputs, credits and marketing.  As this cannot be providedEy J 'L
MA (see para 3.), this will be undertaken by the commercial manager, who 
would be designated as an Assistant Registrar of Cooperatives, in conjunction
with the training and development controller of the PMU.
10.        Initially four coop/credit officers, the coop/credit field
supervisors and field officers will be trained in management, organization,
communication budgeting, accounting and other aspects of cooperative develop-
ment by an experienced coop training officer. The curricula would include
formal as well as on-the-job training and instruction. The coop/credit
officers would then move into the district cooperatives to train the management
and staff in the various aspects of management and organization of cooperatives
with emphasis on input and credit distribution, credit recovery, produce



ANNEX 6
Page 4
marketing including collection, storage, transportation and grading.
11.        The coop/credit field officers in conjunction with the district
cooperatives staff and the agricultural extension staff of the PMU will
organize village level cooperatives and train farmers on the various aspects
of cooperative input and credit services and marketing.
12.        The PMU would, through. its cooperative and credit division,
provide guidance, supervision and assistance in day-to-day management of
the cooperatives including finances and would also coordinate the activities
of the four district cooperatives.



1"IMERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT BROJECT
Farm Inputs and Credix
A. Present Situation
Inputs
1.         xccept for a few large farmers and narticipants in the IFc,a
Rice Project, most farmers in the project area follow traditional culti-
vation methods and use very few purchased inputs.  Inputs are distributed
by private traders but even progressive farmers have great difficulty -n
obtaining improved seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and zechnical advice.
To offset this deficiency the Ministry of Agricuatiire has been trying to
prcvide inputs and services through Cooperatives (fertilizer,seeds and
mechanized cultivation), LPMC (tree crop seedlings,  fertilizer and some
field extension services) and AGRIDECO (mechanized land clearing,
ploughing and sowing).
Credit
2.        Large commercial farmers (many of whom are government employees
who are absentee landlords) producing export crops and livestock products
appear to have little difficulty in obtaining credit from Commercial Banks
or LBDI. However, both these sources apply lending criteria which cannot
be met by small farmers. LBDI and the principal banks are based in
Monrovia and there are few, if any,,--ural branches due to poor communica-
tions, the prohibitive cost of transporting money, shortages of trained
and qualified local staff, and insufficient business. GOL attempted to
remedy the problem of credit for small farmers by -stablishing the
Agricultural Credit Corporation in 1957 but this failed.
3.        Some short term interest free credits for seasonal inputs
(fertilizer and seeds), repayable after harvesting, are being channelled
through the district cooperatives by the Ministry of Agriculture. (See
Annex 6 para  4 ).  LPMC provides coffee and cocoa seedlings at heavily
subsidized prices (5$ each) and on extended credit bearing 105' interest
per annum, repayable in ten equal instalments after a 4-year grace period.
MA has requested LPMC to provide tree crop farmers with fertilizer free
of charge, funded from the Agricultural Development Fund maintained by
LPMC from export crop proceeds.
4.        The services of .xRILMECO 'clearing, ploughing and swoing) in
the Foya Rice Project are provided under a combined seasonal investmen'j
credit package.  Funds are provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and
investment loans have to 'ie repaid over 10 years.  lThen operations began
no clear credit arrangements were made between narticipants (farmers,
the cooperatives, AGRElECC) and the Ministry of Agriculture), the credit
2esay%ient situa-taon is ccnfused and credit recovery has been unsatisfactory.



AINEX 7
Page 2
5.        Except for the limited operation of cooperatives and credit
unions, there are no credit facilities for small farmers and traders,
professional money lenders and relatives are the major sources of con-
sumption and invesment credit, and, in many cases, the loan is repaid
in kind.
B. Proposed Project Arrangements
6.        Credit and physical inputs (fertilizers, chemicals, sprayers,
improved tools, coffee and cocoa seedlings, improved rice seeds, and some
equipment for land development) will be supplied to participating farmers
through the four principal district cooperatives, the village cooperatives/
groups, and LPMC under PMU supervision.
The village cooperatives/groups will estimate input requirements
in their areas, initially with assistance from extension and coop/credit
field staff. These requirements will be collated by the respective dis-
trict cooperatives and forwarded to the Cooperative and Credit Division
of the PJMU.  The PMU Commercial Manager will arrange procurement through
LPMC for fertilizers and other imported inputs. LFPC will be responsible
for importing the inputs, warenousing at Monrovia, and transportation and
delivery to district cooperatives for which they will receive 10% commis-
sion.  Tree crop seedlings (coffee and cocoa) will be supplied by LPMC
under contract. Improved varieties of breeder rice seed will be supplied
by CAES at Suakoko which will then be multiplied by the National Seed
Association and/or by selected farmers in the area. The supply of seed-
lings and seeds will be under -he control of the Agricultural Production
Division of the PMU.
7.        All inputs will be delivered to theparticipating farmers by
district cooperatives through rillage cooperatives/groups for which
service Districts Cooperatives will mark up the inputs' landed cost at
Voinjama (ex LFPC) by 5%, in addition to appropriate local transport
costs. Farmers will therefore pay the full commercial landed cost, in-
cluding handling and incidental cnarges for all fanr  inputs.
d.        The four district cooperatives will be responsible for storage
of inputs. In addition to their own warehouses there is sufficient add-
itional warehouse space in central localities which can be temporarily
hired. At village distribution points farm houses will initially have
to be used for storage. However, it is expected that village coops will
build simple structures on a self-help basis with the assistance of the
PMU,if required.
9.        Participating farmers will be supplied with handtools (sickles,
cutlasses, knives and hoes) and for cocoa farmers knapsack sprayers.
Since fanrers tend to prefer traditional handtools imported ones may be
unacceptable,in which case PMU would attempt to get tools manufactured
locally. The project proposes swamp development by manual labor with
the help of mechnical hand winches and other handtools. Mechnical hand



A,NILX 7
Page. 3
wincthes will be rented to farmers by P11'Us la>d Planning Division nnrf
credit would be provided for hired labox, if required.  However, if labor
or other constraints impede manual land development iMU would clear swamps
mechanically and recover the cost fron farmers.
10.       Participating farmers may puchase inputs for cash at a discount
from cooperatives; alternatively these inputs and other services (such as
mechanical land clearing when considered necessary) will be avilable on
credit . Cash will only be granted for hired labor for new} swamp
development.
11.       Within this general frarnework two types of credit will be
available:
(a)   short term seasonal credit repayable after  each
harvest with a flat service charge of 1,.  This
would primarilv cover rice seed and fertilizers
for upland and swalp rice, replacement tools and
sprayers, and chemicals and fertilizers for coffee
and cocoa; and
(b)   long term investment credit repayable in 3-12
years (depending on the crop being developed)
with interest compounded @ 10% per annum. This
would cover tools, hired labor and/or rental of
land clearing equipment for swamp rice; and tools,
sprayers, seedlings chemicals and fertilizers for
coffee and cocoa during the crop development
period. For project crop development this would
be the first three years for coffee and cocoa
plan.tings aLld the first year for rehabilitated
cocoa and coffee. Terms of development loans
would be as follows:
(i)   for rehabilitated coffee and cocoa 5-years
and 3 years respectively;
(ii) for new coffee and cocoa 8-years and 12-
years respectively with a four year grace
period during which interest would be
capitalized; and
(iii)for new swamp rice, 8 years with a two years
grace period during which interest would be
capitalized.
12.       In determining the rate of interest for onlending to small farmers,
the question of charging an economic rate and at the same time maintaining
adequate incentives for the farmers to borrow and invest has been given due
consideration. The usuary law in Liberia limited interest rates to 10 percent
until April 1975, when the law was changed to increase the ceiling to 25
percent. Present commercial rates of lending varies between 12/15 percent.



ANNEX 7
Page h
Whilst the stipulated onlendin rates to the farmers appear to be lower
than the average market rates, it is justified on the grounds that
(a) the project would introduce for the first time an agricultural credit
system with clearly defined terms for small farmers who until now have
received credits from Government (which has been rather limited),
virtually free ; (b) the project is the first effort to introduce techno-
logy change at the level of small farmers and given the usual psychology
of risk-aversion by small holders, a higher interest rate may adversely
affect the rate of adoption; (c) the 10 percent interest charge is not
strictly an uneconomic rate because this would, after covering the expenses
and commission for credit operation, leave 5 percent for accummulation in
the revolving credit fund, and finally, (d) the rate is subject to review
by PMU in the light of experience gained during implementation.
Credit Administration Arrangements
13.       Development and seascnal credit would be provided thruugh a
revolving credit fund to be established and financed by the project under
a trust agreement, between IDA and GOL to be administered by the LBDI
on behalf of GOL. The fund would be built up by the development and incre-
mental seasonal input supplied to farmers through the coops which would
maintain individual farmers' accounts and be responsible for recording of
the credit.  During the first year, the fund will be credited with the
value of the inputs supplied to the coops with project finance and hence
will handle virtually little cash.  Subsequently, all development loans
and seasonal credit recoveries by the coops would be paid into the revolv-
ing credit fund. Subsequent financing of seasonal inputs would be from
the revolving credit fund, leaving only incremental seasonal inputs with
new development inputs to be project financed as in the first year.
At the end of Iroject development in 1980, fund would amount to US$3.8 mil-
lion excluding interest income. By 1987 all development loans amounting
tx  US3.4 million would be repaid and this amount wlll be available for
fLurther development as determined by the trust deed.
14.       Fund to cooperatives would carry a 7 percent interest charge,
of this 2 percent would be paid to IBDI as management commission and the
balance of 5 percent would be credited to the revolving credit fund.
The cooperatives would retain the difference between the interest charge
(3 percent on seasonal loans and approximately 5 percent for development
loans) to cover administration and bad debts. At all levels of the credit
mechanism strong support and guidance would be provided by the extension
service, and the cooperative/credit division of PMU.
15.       The system of credit distribution to cooperative members will
be governed by three principles: security, low costs and maximum benefits
for the small farmers. In order to achieve this the following procedures
will be followed:



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(a) overall credit limit per family should not
exceed US$1,000. This limit represents the
most expensive farm development an average
farm family would be able to handle (see
para 6.16);
(b) Lhose who do not have title deeds will need
tribal confirmation of the right to the land
to be developed. The assistance of Credit
Advisory Committees (comprising village/clan
chief, one or two respected village farmers,
area extension and coop/credit assistants
and a credit officer from the coop) and of
the tribal authorities would be sought for
credit recovery;
(c) farmers taking credit must agree (i) to accept
input packages specified by the project, care-
fully follow the recommended practices and use
it for the purpose for which they are given;
and (ii) to market his coffee and cocoa through
the cooperative.



AN9NEX 7
LIBERIA                                                                                             TablE  1
LOPA COUNTY AGRICUll.TURA. DEVELOP} NT PROJECT
Illustr-tive Revolving Credit Fund
Year 1       Year 2     Yeur 3      Year 4      Year 5      Yeur 6      Year 7      Year 8      Year 9     Your 10      Year 11      Yeur 12       Year 13      Yeur 14      Yeur 15      Ye-r 16
Inflow of Funds
Repayments (PFin-ipal only)
Develop-ent Lo.ns                               3.9         10.7        20.2        39.0        66.4       187.6       317.1      433.1       584.6        494.6        404.8        291.4        151.5         121.2         90.9         50.5
Seasunal Credit                                16.0         85.0       193.0       407.0      695.0       750.0       880.0       910.0       868.0        832.0        832.0        832.0        832.0        832.0         832.0        832.0
Subtotal                             19.9         95.7       213.2       446.0       761.4       937.6    1,197.1    1,343.1    1,452.6        1,326.6      1,336.8      1,123.4         983.5        953.2        922.9        882.5
Interest Receivuble 1/
Development Lo.ns                               0.7          1.9         3.5         9.2        18.0       103.0       193.0      277.0       197.0        342.0        285.0        214.0         129.0        103.0         77.0         43.0
Seasonal Credit                                 0.6          3.0         6.8        14.0        24.0        26.0       31.0        32.0        30.0         29.0         29.0         29.0          29.0         29.0         29.0         29.0
Subtotal                               1.3         49         10 i         I3.        ,2._0      129.0       22b.0       70-.0      227.C        371.G        314.0        743.0        i;4.3         ljz.O        106.0         /2,0
Project Disbursetents
Development L-ene                              16.0        453.0       583.0       821.0    1,526.0
Incrementol Seasonal Credit                    16.0         69.0       108.0       214.0       288.0
Subtotal                             32.0        522,0       691.0    1,035.0    1,314.0
Total  inflow                         53.2       622.6       914.5    1,504.2    2,117.4        1.066.6   1.421.1    1.652.1    1,679.6         1,697.6      1,550.8      1,366.4      1,141.5      1,085.2       1,028.9       954.5
Outflow of Funds
Farmer Credit disbursements
Developsent Loans                              16.0        453.0       583.0       821.0    1,026.0         235.0      125.0
Seasonal Credits                               16.0         85.0       193.0       407.0       695.0        750.0     880.0       910.0       868.0        832.0        832.0        832.0         832.0        832.0         832.0       832.0
Subtotal                             32.0        538.0       776.0    1,228.0    1,721.0          985.0   1,005.0        910.0       868.0       832.0         832.0        832.0        832.0        832.0         832.0       832.0
LBDI Cormission  V                              0.6          10.8       15.5        24.6        34.4         19.7       20.1        18.2        17.4        16.6         16.6          16.6         16.6         16.6          16.6        16.6
Total Outflow                        32.6        548.8       791.5    1,252.6    1,755.6        1,004.7   1,025.1        928.2       885.4       848.6        848.6         848.6        848.6        848.6         848.6       848.6
Net Influw                                         20.6         73.8      123.0       251.6       361.8         61.9      396.0       723.9       794.2        849.0        702.2        517.8        292.9        236.6         180.3       105.9
Cumulative Inflow                                 20.6          94.4      217.4       469.0       830.8        892.7   1,288.7    2,012.6    2,806.8         3,655.8     4,358.0      4,875.8       5,168.7      5,405.3       5,585.6    5,691.5
1/  Interest has been based 00 avsraged intest receivable after appFopriate grate periods - developnent
loans 7% p.a. (net of cooperative's 3%) - seasonal credit at 7% p.0. for 6 nonths average outstanding.
2/ based on 2% of Farmer Credit Disbuc-ements.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing, Markets and Prices
A. Introduction
1.              Marketing of agricultural produce in the project area is
considerably influenced by certain locational aspects. The project area
is bordered by Guinea and the Sierra Leone in the north and northeast while
a thinly populated tropical rainforest   in the  south   (where population
density is only 1-10 persons per sq mile as opposed to 25-100 persons in the
project area) virtually isolates it from the rest of the country. This
physical isolation coupled with rudimentary transportation links, creates
negative effects on the market potential for food crops and other perishables
and semi-perishables. On the other hand, nearness to the borders of Sierra
Leone and Guinea, in the absence of effective preventive measures by the
respective governments and as a result of spatial price differential, leads
to considerable exchange of agricultural produce between the project area
and those two countries. Proper pricing and marketing policies therefore
assume importance in ensuring stability in the market supply and demand,
market prices as well as in farm resource allocation in the project area.
B. Agricutural Market Structure and
Organization in the Project Area
Marketing
2.          The marketing system in the project area consists of the fol-
lowing institutions and functionaires:
- Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC) and its
Licensed Buying Agents,
- the four cooperatives in Voinjama, Kolahun, Foya and
Zorzor,
- Individuals and groups of private traders.
Market structure and organization in the project area varies
according to whether the crop is for domestic consumption (rice, paddy,
corn, groundnuts, palm oil, fruits and vegetables) or primarily for export
(coffee, cocoa, palm kernels and piassava). Except for paddy/rice, in which
case the LPMC competes with other traders in the free market, all the non-
export crops are marketed through the traditional channels without any
institutional interference with respect to price and/or quantity. However,
in the case of the export crops, LPMC has an export monopoly, establishes
mcnthly prices in consultation with the GOL and is obliged to pu-rchase all
quantities offered at those prices.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.               LPMC was founded in 1962 as a semi-governmental corpora-
tion, with 50% of the shares held by GOL and half to the Danish East
Asiatic Company.       LPMC headquarters, six large warehouses (adequate
to handle 50,000 tons) and one palm kernel mill are located in Monrovia.
At its main outstation at Voinjama, there are 3 warehoust( capacity about
1,700 tons) one 2-ton per hour- rice mill, one 1-ton coffee huller and a
small hand-hydraulic press foi- oil palm processing.        LPMC also owns
and manages a 14 ha oil palm :?arm, a 15 ha cocoa farm and a 36 ha coffee
farm.  Since the beginning of 1974 LPMC has taken over the Tree Crop Pro-
gram in the country and during that year raised 14,000 oil palm seedlings,
57,000 coffee seedlings and about 1.2 million cocoa seedlings. The sel-
ling price of the seedlings a nominal 5 cents for coffee and cocoa
and 30 cents for oil palm; long term credit is extended to farmers for
these purchases (see Annex 7 ). LPMC now contemplates supplying fertilizer
to the tree crop farmers free of cost.
4.          For the collection and assembly of produce from the farmers,
LP 140   employs Licensed Buying Agents (LBA).  In 1974 these numbered 42
in all of Liberia (27 cooperatives and 15 private traders) and 6 in Lofa
County (5 in the project area; L cooperatives and one private company).
In addition,      TJPMC buys from all others (except Lebanese traders) who
deliver produce to its warehouses in Voinjama. Nearly 40% of paddy and
25% of cherry coffee received at Voinjama were from these other sources.
The cooperatives are appointed as LBA on recommendations from the Coopera-
tives Credit and Marketing Division of the MA while the private traders are
appointed on verification of their credentials by the LPMC. All LBA's re-
ceive a fixed ad valorem buying commission in addition to handling and
transport charges 1/. Suppliers other than the LBA's are not entitled to
such commission. The cooperatives get crop financing advances, but the
trader-LBA's do not.
5.          LPMC's margin between "producer"payments and export earnings
appear to have been excessive (see para 12). Available information shows
that in the past LPMC had profits that were far in excess of what-was
stipulated in its agreement with the GOL -- a maximum of 10 of fob value
of exports as profits and overhead expenses.  During 1965/69 this margin
was 13.6 to 16 percent of for turnover, for 1971 and 1972 it was 14 and
15 percent, respectively. Between 1963 and 1969 LPMC's total profits
amounted to over US$3 million. During 1974 the gross income before taxes
and transfer to price stabilization and development fund was over
US$3. million.
6.          The cooperatives lack an organized network of purchasing points
and therefore, accept produce mainly at their warehouses. The Foya
cooperative operates a small outstation, the Gbandi cooperative operates
one at Bolahun (Massambolhun) and recentl  -.he Voinjana cooperative has
started to collect produce from villages using its own transport (producer
pays half of the transport cost). Under these conditions only the farmers
who live in the vicinity of the cooperative headquarters and/or those who
have transport facilities at their disposal are able to deliver their pro-
ducts directly to the cooperatives.  For a large number of farmers, however,
1/  Present commission:  coffee and palm kernel 6%, cocoa 8%, paddy 4%   -
-~         nrc    rXg[s  '_  ;e.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
it is not possible to sell directly to the cooperatives and they have to
rely on intermediaries, who are sometimes known as sub-agents of the coo-
peratives. These sub-agents usually assemble the collected produce in
their ovn stores, from where it is sent either to the cooperatives and/or
the Voinjama outstation of the LPMC, or in the case of palm kernels, clean
coffee and cocoa directly to the LPMC warehouse in Monrovia. The coopera-
tives deliver their cherry coffee and rice to the LPMC warehouse in Voinjama
whereas clean coffee, palm kernels and cocoa are sent directly to Monrovia.
Except for the small purchases, payment is made by the Monrovia office against
warehouse receipts and waybills issued by the Vbinjama outstation. Final produce
inspection (both quality and quantity) is done at Monrovia.
7.          Table 2 shows Lr  purcnases cf coffee, cocoa and palm  kernel
in the project area during 1968-74. Measured against the purchases in the
whole of Liberia, coffee purchases in the project area were about 50%, cocoa
30%, and palm kernel 30%. However, when assessing these purchases, the clan-
destine border trade with Guinea and Sierra Leone should be taken into con-
sideration, particularly for coffee and cocoa. The phenomenon is more
perceptible in the case of coffe , and in certain years in the past higher
prices in Liberia attracted as much as 40 of the total quantities purchased
by LP?TC in the area.
Storage
8.          At present, storage functions in the project area are undertaken
by farmers, the sub-agents, cooperatives and in particular by the
LPMC.      Farmers store the rice intended for their own consumption in the
attic of the kitchen., where it is dried by warmth and smoke and is kept
reasonably free from pests. Cocoa and coffee are delivered direct to the
cooperatives or the sub-agents, who store the products only during the small
transition period which is necessary for collecting and assembling enough
products. Up to now cooperatives have stored produce in small rented
structures. However, the cooperatives at Foya, Voinjama and Kolahun have under-
taken construction of their own warehouses (see Annex 6). The bulk of the
storage facilities in the project area is provided by the LPIC; warehouse
facilities at Voinjama are used mainly for the storage of cherry coffee and
rice. The LPMC outstation in Voinjama has three warehouses with a total
capacity of about 12,000 m3; this corresponds to a storage capacity of about
28,000 bags of rice (about 1,700 tons).
Processing
9.          The traditional method of on-farm processing of cherry coffee by
handpounding with mortar and pestle is a labor intensive process, and results
in poor quality coffee. The price differential between clean and cherry
coffee determines the incentives or disincentives for the farmers to process
cherries themselves. Until June 1972, price of clean coffee was about 70%
higher than cherry, and coffee was delivered almost exclusively as clean
coffec during this period. During the harvesting season of 1972-73, the
price relation between clean and cherry coffee was 12:10.5 and this resulted
in large deliveries of cherries (2,230 tons) as opposed to very little (only



ANNEX 8
Page 4t
about 300 tons) during 1973-7'a when the price relationships were
per lb. Several economic reasons justify a policy of disincentives for
traditional processing of cherries:
(a)  on-farm processing is inefficient and leads to
quantitative and qualitative losses;
(b) on-farm processing is labor intensive and
diverts family labor from other more pro-
ductive farm activities. -,Jith the proposed
farm development activities participating
farmers in the project area will have very
little labor available for propper processing
of cherries on the farm;
(c) large scale smuggling distorts local supply-
demand relationship, prices and as such proper
farm resource allocation. Relative price
discrimination against clean coffee can act
as a disincentive for smuggling because of
relative transportation difficulties for
cherries; and, finally
(d)  proper utilization of the LPMC coffee mill
would reduce the LPMC's overhead costs on
coffee trading account, the savings from
which could then be passed on to the
producers.
10.         After harvest cocca is fermented and dried by the farmers them-
selves which, though is the cheapest method, can result in poor quality
cocoa. Improper fermentatioiT, drying and storage results in a large pro-
portion of slaty beans and other quality deteriorations arising from fungal
and insect attacks.  Liberian cocoa suffers price deductions of 2-50 on
world market due to such quality problems.
11.         Rice is cultivated primarily for subsistence with only a small
marketed surplus. According to the 1971 agricultural census, only about 15%
of the farmers sold rice occasionally. The paddy rice for the farmer's oarn
consumption is processed primarily by handpounding with mortar and pestle.
As this operation is time-consuming, an increasing number of small rice
mills have begun to spread throughout Lofa.  At present about 24 of these
mills are in the area. Most are old Engleberg huller mills, although a few
of the newer ones are equipped with modern rubber roll shellers. Capital
investments, overhead and variable expenses are relatively low but the low
conversion rates, which in most cases do not amount to more than 55%, renders
the industry uneconomic for the nation. An indication of the proliferation of
these mills in the countryside are found in the fact that during 1974 about
50 such small mills were sold in Monrovia and dealers expect to sell another
100 during 1975. There is no rural preference for parboiled rice, and the
techniaue of parboiling is not widely known to the producers/processors.



ANNEX 8
C.  Constraints in the Present Marketing Sstem,
12.         The market for export crops is characterized by a monopol st
(LPIC) buying from a large number of individual farmers through a small
number of non-competing entities (LBA's) at a predetermined price. There-
fore,market power is totally concentrated in the hands of the buyers and
the prices that producers receive are purely institutional rather
than market-generated. In such a situation deprivation of the producers
is a likely outcome and that is precisely what has happened in Liberia in
the past. LPMC purchase prices have not only been too far below the world
market prices (Tables 3 and 4), but the actual prices received by the pro-
ducers have been even lower by as much as 20% resulting from the following
situations:
(a)  due to transport difficulties farmers cannot bring
their produce to the cooperative   warehouses and
are obliged to sell to the sub-agents and/or other
itinerant traders.  These sub-agents offer lower
prices to cover their operating expenses and profit;
(b)  the sub-agents usually buy in volume measures which
the farmers cannot relate to LPMC prices and in-
variably this turns to the farmers' disadvantage;
(c)  in the absence of standardized and easily under-
stood grading systems, the sub-agents are able to
make unjustified deductions on pleas  of quality
deficiencies. Even cooperatives do not pay full
LPMC nrices to the producers who bring their
produce to the warehouses on such quality con-
siderations, a practice which they justify on
grounds of protecting themselves against such
deductions by LPMC;
(d)  lack of effective dissemination of market infor-
mation and gupervision. It is doubtful whether a
remote farmer knows the prevailing LPMC producer
prices.
13.         In 1973, a new price formula for coffee, cocoa and  alm kernels
was prepared.  This price system is oriented towards prices that the LPMC
obtains in the world markets, from which the following deductions are made:
the operational and overhead costs of LPMC, the transfers for price stabili-
zation and aricultural development funds and LPMC profits. The residual
is the producer price to be paid to the farmer. Conceptually this pricing
formula ca assure the Foducers a stable and satisfacotry share in the
final value of their products. However, since this share is a residual value
its effectiveness requires that (a) components of the deductions are not
excessive and economically unjustifiable; (b) the costs of operational inef-
ficiencies of the LPMC and its agents are not passed on to the producers;
(d) a reasonable part of the statutory deductions for agricultural development
funds are made available for further agricultural development of the areas
where the produce orxiginated.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
D. Project Proposals for Marketing Improvement
1L.         The project will result in a considerable increase in the
marketable surplus of coffee, cocoa and paddv. At full maturity, an ad-
ditional volume of about 11,000 tons of paddy, 2,500 tons of clean coffee
(excluding smuggled quantities) and about 2,000 tons of dry cocoa beans
will have to be channeled through the marketing system. No major changes
in the existing institutional structure of the marketing system is con-
sidered necessary but within the broad framework the following modifica-
tions of marketing and pricing policies are proposed:
(a)  Producer Prices:    For coffee and cocoa the
producer prices should be at least 60% of the fob
Monrovia sales income, i.e., world market price less
freight, insurance and overseas selling commission.
Fob sales value would be calculated on the basis of
a. weighted average of the previous shipping periods
adjusted by projected domestic and world price
situations for the next shipping period. Such pri-
ces would be announced well ahead of the harvest
but would be under constant review during the ship-
ping season. If there are adverse changes in the
world prices, the announced producer prices would
be maintained by withdrawal from the price stabili-
zation fund, but if world prices show sustained
upward movement, appropriate revision in the producers'
price would be effected.
Paddy and/or rice will continue to be in the
private sector but LPMC would operate a price support
program, the support price being an equivalent of the
import substitution value.
Price differentials between clean coffee and
cherry coffee shall be maintained at a level that
would discourage home processing by producers.
In order to encourage quality improvements ap-
propriate price differentials for quality differences
would be enforced for all commodities.
(b) Marketing Practices: The four cooperatives in the
project area would endeavor to buy directly from
the producers as far as possible. The village
cooperative/groups should be the media for attaining
this objective.  If necessary, the project would as-
sist in the construction of small cooperative stores/
collection points in the villages. If sub-agents are



Pzge
used, the cooperatives should be made responsible
for paying them adequate handling and transport
allowances and ensuring that the sub-agents do not
underpay the farmers to cover such expenses. In
order to dilute the quasi-monopoly position of the
cooperatives, and the concomitant inefficiencies,
the LPMC may consider appointing more LBA's, on
comparable terms and conditions from amongst
reputable private traders.
The Voinjama outstation of the LPMC should
be strengthened to enable it to inspect, accept
and settle payments for all produce that are
offered at their warehouses.
(c)   Marketing Infrastructure:  In order to reduce
transportation costs and facilitate produce
mobility, the farm-to-market roads would be
properly maintained (see Annex 2). The LPIC
in collaboration with the cooperatives and with
active guidance from the PMU, would take steps to
effectively disseminate market information in
the villages, institute simple and easily under-
stood procedures for grading of produce and impart
necessary training to the producers in this regard,
introduce a standardized system of weights and take
such other steps as are necessary for the improve-
ment of the overall narketing environment.
E. Market Prospects and Prices
Coffee and Cocoa
15.       Liberia is not yet considered to be a major coffee and cocoa
producer of the world. During 1973-74, its total coffee and cocoa exports
amounted to less than 2% of the world production. The incremental produc-
tion envisaged in the project for these commodities is so insignificant in
terms of world production that it will not have a measureable effect on
t1 supply and price situation.
Liberia's export of coffee has increased nearly 50% between 1968
and 1973, from about 4,600 tons to nearly 6,a00 tons.  Liberia is a member
of the International Coffee Organization (ICO). In recent times the ICO
has been in a flux. During the 1973 season, all economic clauses in the
agreement were suspended; there was no quota restriction and the LPMC was
able to substantially unload its coffee stocks. However, in 1974 a meet-
ing of the producing countries alloted a minimum export quota of about
7,700 tons to Liberia. If the ICO is able to renegotiate a new agreement
and reimpose the quota system, Liberia can still expect a 10% annual in-
crease in its export quota due to its low export volume. The estimated
increase in project output of coffee will still remain well within this



A4NNEX 8
Page 8
annual 10% increase in quota and therefore no marketing difficulties are
anticipated. If marketing difficulties due to quota restrictions should
arise, they could be overcome by reducing the flow of smuggled coffee from
neighboring countries which constitutesabout 20 -25 of Liberia's total
supply of clean coffee.
Liberia is not a member of the International Cocoa Agreement
(ICA) and therefore is not limited by quota restrictions. Cocoa exports
from Liberia have shown considerable fluctuation in recent years. Accord-
ing to IBRD projections, the rate of growth in world cocoa production
(1971-80) is about 3.8% per year which is higher than the anticipated rate of
growth in demand in 1972 constant prices. Given Liberia's insignificant
share of the world market, no market difficulties will be creatted by the
incremental production of cocoa. However, Liberian cocoa suffers a
discount penalty in the world market due to quality deficiencies aris-
ing from improper processing, and storing. With proper quality improvement,
be able to find a better export market and earn more revenue ir
the future.
Rice
16.       Rice is the main staple food in Liberia.  The annual per capita
consumption is estimated at about 1h6 kg. Domestic production in thie past
increased at an annual rate of about 1.4% and lagged behind the growth of
population. Under these circumstances, Liberia had to import on an
average about 40,000 tons of clean rice from aborad between 1967-1973. The
rate of self-sufficiency fluctuated between 74% and 80% over these years.
Imported rice is mainly parboiled low grade American rice with
35% broken. In spite of the- relatively low quality, imported rice is
preferred by the urban population. The rural areas in Liberia are largely
self-sufficient and only a small proportion of the local rice reaches thle
markets and interregional trade.
Assuming a population growth rate of 2.8% per annum, the total
demand for clean rice in Liberia is estimated at about 225,000 tons in
1980. The incremental production of about 7,400 tons of clean rice will
therefore find a ready domestic market and will reduce Liberia's dependence
on imported rice.
Prices
17.       According to IBRD commodity forecasts, in 1975 constant dollars,
the prices of cocoa and rice in 1980 will be 25% and 27% lower than those
prevailing during 1975, while coffee prices will go up by about 31%.
The respective spot New York prices in 1980 for coffee and cocoa are
$1,830.0 and $1,260.0 respectively, and $275.0 for Thai 5% broken rico
fob Bankok. The estimated economic and financial farmgate prices are
presented in Table 5.



ANNEX b
Table 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Statement of Income of
Liberia Produce Marketing Company 1971-74
--Year ended September 31-
1971       1972        1973       1974
.....           .     ............US  '000
Income
Trading Profit from Produce        1,338        1,305     2,799       2,255
Profit from Palm Kernel mill         -             65       4oo       2,736
Oth.er Income                        -           -           112        239
Total Income                1,338        1,370     3,311       5,230
Expenses
Operating and Warehousing            345          459       478         467
AC.ministration and General Expenses 261          414        300        326
Depreciation of Fixed Assets          83           83         73        Q07
Provision for doubtful debts        -            _            13
Agricultural Development expenses   364           346        347
Total Expenses              1,053       1,301      1,208        900
Gross Income                            285          69      2,103      4,330
Less Taxes                                                     5 _32       828
Transfer to Funds:
Price Stabilization                 _                      -          1,093
Agricultural Development            _                       695       1,359
Total                                    1- ,227               3,280
Net Income after Taxes and Transfers  285            69       876       1,050
Source: Report of Auditors, Winney Mlurray & Company.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LPMC Purchases of Coffee. Cocoa and Palm Kernel
In the Pro.ect Area 2/
(tons)
Year      Coffee         Cocoa        Palm Kernel
-Lleanj    .(Dry Beans)   (Dry Kernals)
1968/69      3,260            -             4,055
1969/70      2,280            878           4,292
1970/71      2,660            938           4,955
1971/72      2,760            865           3,o404
1972/73      2,400            639           3,612
1973/74 1/   1, 300         1,236           3,059
_i Excluding Zorzor area. LPMC became involved in rice marketing only in
1972 and it still plays a minor role in this respect. During 1972-73
the Voiijama outstation bought only 90 tons,and in 1973-74 470 tons of
paddy out of the estimated marketed surplus of 2,000 tons in the project area.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
LIERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LPMC Producer Prices for Coffee, Cocoa and
Palm Kernels
Robusta Coffee          Cocoa             Palm Kernels
$/kg Clean Coffee    #/kg Dry Beans    i/kg Dry Kernels
1967-68                 39.6                 35.2                     8.8
9.9
1968-69                 39.6                 35.2                    10.5
37.4                     8.8
1969-70                 39.6                37.4                      9.9
33.0                39.6                     8.8
1970                    33.0                 39.6                     9.9
1971                    37.4                39.6                      9.9
33.0
1972                    37.4                33.0                      9.9
26.4                39.6                     8.8
1973                    26.4                39.6                      8.8-
--  55.0            57.2                    15.4
1974                    55.0                57.2                     15.4
66.0                79.2                    19.8
1975                    66.o                79>,0                    19.8
Note: LPMC started paddy purchasing in 1972 when official price was
ll per kg. Present price is 22, per kg.
Source:  LPMC    -



LIBRIA
LOFA COJNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation-As Producer
and Export Prices
(in US$ per long ton)
1966/67  3VOL8    669  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1272/7:3  1273/74
Coffee
a.  Unit Producer Price                   409      403       384       364      380       470      560       560
b.  Unit Export Price                     667       682      655       748      847      -854       985    1,020
-   in percent of Producer Price          163%      169%     171%      206%     229%      182%      176%     182%
Cocoa
a.  Unit Producer Price                   358       358      382       403      409       336      403       582
b. Unit Export Price                      542       616      775       836      602       471      615    1,028
-   in Percent of Producer Price          151%      172%     203%      207%     147%      140%      153%     177%
palm Kernels
a.  Unit Producer Price                    93       102       93        98      100        92        87      157
b.  Unit Export Price                     133       167      133       147       134      124        - 1/    261
-   in Percent of Producer Price          143%      164%     143%      150%      13t%     135%       _       166%
Total Export Earnings against Prodieer
Price Payments                        154%     160%      140%      186%     173%      173%     170%      198
l/ Palm Kernels are not exported but LPiC exports processea Palm Kernel oil; during lY73-74g
the total export earnings from this were $5.3 million.



Annex 8
Table 5
Page 1 of 3
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Economic and Financial Farmgate Prices
Clean Coffee
1980                        1985
Economic    Financial       Economic    Financial
-----------------US$ per Long Ton-------------------
Spot New York 1/                         1,830       1,830            1,898      1,898
- Insurance and Freight 2/                  90           90               90        90
- Overseas Selling Commission 3/            37           37              37         37
FOB Monrovia                          1,703        1,703            1,769      1,769
-Port Expenses 4/                           10           10              10       -10
- LPMC Costs 5/                            183          183              190       190
- Transport to Freeport 6/                  20           28               20        28
- Ag. Dev. Fund 7/                         -            119              -         124
- Price Stabilization Fund 8/              -            85              _           88
- LPEC Profit 9/                           -            136             -          142
Value at Voinjama                      1,490       1,142            1,549      1,187
- Farmers Marketing Costs 10/               38          114               39       119
Farmgate prices:
Clean coffee:                       1,452       1,029            1,510      1,068
In term of cherry                     829         586              861        609
1/   Based on IBRD price projections for washed Guatemalean coffee in 1975 Constant
Terms less 4% to reflect quality  differences for Liberian coffee
2/   LPMC data.
3/   27% of spot New York price.
4/   Harbour dues, warfage,inspection etc.
5/   11% of FOB Monrovia value.
6/   Transport from Voinjama to freeport, US$28 per ton. Only 70% considered as
economic costs, the other 30% reflecting taxes, profits etc.
7/   7% of FOB Monrovia value.
8/   5% of FOB Monrovia value.
9/   8% of FOB Monrovia value.
lo/  10O of financial value of clean coffee at Voinjama; 2/3 of this is traders'
profit and 1/3 is considered as economic costs.



Annex 8
Table 5
Page 2 of 3
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRI CULTURAL DEVEL0PMENT PROJECT
Economic and Financial Farmgate Prices
Cocoa Bean
1980                      1985
Economic   Financial      Economic    Financial
-------------------US$ per long Ton------------------
Spot New  York/Europe 1/                  1,260        1,260         1,277         1,277
- Insurance and Freight 2/               85            85            85            85
- Overseas Selling Commission 3L         25            25            25            25
FOB Monrovia                         1,150        1,150         1,167        1,167
- Port Expenses 4/                         10          10            10            10
L PMI Ceosts 51                           112         112           112           112
Transport to Freeport 6/                 20          28            20            28
- Ag. Dev. Fund 7/                                     81           -              82
-Price Stab. Fund 8/                                   58           -              58
- LPKC Profit 9/                          -            92           -              93
Value at Voinjama 10/                 1,008         769         1,025          784
- Farmer's Marketing Costs 10/             26          77            26           78
Farmgate Price                          982         692           999          706
1/ Based on IBRD price projections for dry cocoa beans in 1975 constant terms.
2/ LPM data.
3/ 2% of spot New York/Europe price.
41 Harbour dues inspection fees etc.
5/ 10% of FOB Monrovia Value.
6/ Transport from Voinjama to Freeportat'US$28 per ton. Only 70% considered as economic
costs, the other 30% including taxes, profits, etc..;
7/ 7% of FOB Value.
8/ 5% of FOB Value.
9/ 8% of FOB Value.
10/ 10%  of financial value at Voinjama; 2/3 of this is traders' profit and only
1/3 considered as economic costs.



ANNEX 8
Table 5
Page 3 of 3
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic and Financial Farmgate Prices
(Import Substitution Value)
Milled Rice
1 9 8 0
Economic           Financial
-------- US$m/ton ---------
Spot Bangkok 1/                               275                 275
Insurance and Freight 2/                     50                  50
Overseas Buying Commission 3/                10                   10
CIF Monrovia                                335                 335
Importers Margin 4/                          14                  42
Import Tax 5/                                -                   12
Port Expenses 6/                             10                  10
Value at Monrovia                           359                 399
Transport to Monrovia 7/                     20                   28
Value at Voinjama                           339                 371
Value in Paddy equiv. 8/                    227                 249
Milling Costs 9/                              3                   10
Bags 10/                                      1                   5
Value of Bral 11/                             4                   4
227                 238
Farmers Marketing Costs 12/                   6                  24
Farmgate Price US$/in ton                   233                 214
1/ Based on IBRD price projections for Thai 5% broken rice in 1975 term discounted
by 15% for Liberian rice.
2/ LPMC data
31 4% of FOB Bangkok price.
4/ 12.5% of CIF Monrovia price; 2/3 in importers profit 1/3 costs.
5/ In 1975 50 cents per 100 kg.
6/ Harbour dues, inspection etc.
7/ From Voinjama to Monrovia atUS$28 ton; 70% considered economic costs, the other 30%
taxes, profits, etc..
8/ Reflecting 67% conversion rate.
9/ 1/3 considered economis costs, 2/3 profit, taxes, etc...
10/l/5 considered economic costs as the bag is used several time8.
117  6% of paddy weight in bran.  Market price US$6.6 per 100 kg.
T2/ 10% of financial value at Voinjama, 1/4 of which is considered economic
costs, 2/3traders' profit.



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Financing - Summarv
F i n a n c i n g
I  D  A                         U  S  A  I  D                     G O  L
Total         Foreign                            Foreign                          Foreign
Foreign       Exchange     L      o c a 1        Exchange  L o c a 1              Exchange     L o c a 1                 L o c a 1
Costs         Costs         Costs                Costs        Costs               Costs          Costs                    Costs
Buildings and construction materials         435.0         261.0         174.0                198.0       142.0                 63.0           32.0
Vehicles                                     613.3         490.0         123.3                380.0        -                   110.0           20.1                     103.2
Equipment                                    632.8         500.0         132.8                456.-                             44.0           11.0                     121.8
Salarips And wages                        4,668.7        1,895.0       2,773.7              1,410.0        -                   485.0          650.6                  2,123.1
Vehicle  Operating Expenses                  902.0         630.0         272.0                630.0       272.0                 -              -
Development operational costs                785.0         150.0         635.0                128.0       615.0                 22.0           20.0                      -
Subtotal                              8,036.8        3,926.0       4,110.8              3,202.0    1,029.0                 724.0          733.7                  2,348.1
Farm inputs                                3,288.6       1,360.0       1,928.6                  -          -                 1,360.0          296.8                   1,631.8
Hired labor                                  420.0          -            420.0                  -          --                                 420.0                      _
Consultants                                  100.0         100.0          -                    60.0        -                    40.0           -
LBDI branch establishment costs              150.0          90.0          60.0                  90.0       60.0                  -             -
Subtotal                             11,995.4        5,476.0       6,519.4              3,352.0    1,089.0               2,124.0        1,450.5                   3,979.9
Contingencies - physical                     595.0         274.o         321.0                168.0        51.0                106.0           70.0                     200.0
- price                     4,409.6       2,000.0        2,409.6              1,220.0      120.0                 780.0         469.5                   1,820.1
TOTAL                                17,000.0        7,750.0       9,250.0              4,740.0    1,260.0               3,010.0        1,990.0                   6,000.0



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projiect Costs - Susmary
(US$ tOriO0)
Foreign Exchange      Local       IDA           USAID
Year  1          2         3          4         5          Total      %            Cost      Cost      Finance       Finance
Buildings and construction materials       280.0       65.0      55.o       35.0        -       435.0       60          261.0      174.0       198.0          63.0
Vehicles                                   323.8       69.5     101.4       90.6      t8.0      613.3       80         490.0       123.3       380.0         11 0.0
Equipment                                  344.2      225.6      33.0       20.0       10.0     632.8       80          500.0      132.8       456.o          44.0
Salaries and wages                         788.2      938.8   1,056.6   1,094.8      790.3   4,668.7        41       1,895.0    2,773.7    1,410.0           485.0
Vehicle operating expenses                 127.2      179.9     216.8      198.2     179.9      902.0       70          630.0      272.0       630.0           -
General services                           198.0      131.0     179.0      152.0      125.0     785.0       19          150.0       635.0      128.0           22.0
Subtotal                            2,061.4   1,609.8   1,641.8   1,590.6   1,133.2   8,036.8         49        3,926.0    4,110.8    3,202.0           724.0
Farm inputs                                 33.8      487.1     649.9      901.8   1,216.0   3,288.6        41       1,360.0    1,928.6           -        1,360o0
Hired labor                                  -         45.0      75.0      120.0     180.0      420.0        -                     420.0
Subtotal                               33.8     532.1      724.9   1,021.8   1,396.0   3,708.6        37        1,360.0    2,348.6           -       1,360.0
Consultants                                 10.0       30.0      30.0       30.0      -         100.0      100         100.0        -           60.0          40.0
LBDT Branch Establishment costs             80.0       70.0       -          -         -        150.0       60          9g.0        60.0        90.0           -
Subtotal                            2,185.2   2,241.9   2,396.7   2,642.4   2,529-2  11,995.4         46        5,476.0    6,519.4           -
Contirgencies - physical                   109.0      110.0     116.0      130.0     130.0      595.0       46          274.0      321.0       168.0         106.0
price                     344.0      520.0     785.0   1,204.0   1, 55 6.6:                         2y O,uw.7,jh09.6    1,220.0             780.0
Total project costs                 2,638.2  2,B71.9  73-T79        3976    T,2 I55     7,000.0       46        7,750.0    9,250.0    4,740.0         3,010.0
'.\0



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPN1ENT PROJECT
Project Costs - Buildings and Construction Materials
(Us$sooo)
IDA        USAID
Unit                                                                               Foreign Exchange        Local       Financed    Financed
Cost                1          2         3         4         5          Total       %           Cost       Cost          Foreign Exchange
1.   P M U /Administration and Finance
Office improvements and
alterations                                                  20.0                                                  20.0       70           14.0        6.0           14.0
House alterations and
improvements                                                  50.0                                                  50.0       70          35.0       15.0            35.0
Sub-Total                                               70.0                                                  70.0       70          49.0       21.0            49.0          -
2.   Training
Dormitory block, AETC Johnson-
ville, Monrovia                             65.0             65.0                                                   65.0       70          45.0       20.0             -           45.0
Staff training center (15 beds)
Voinjama                                    30.0             30.0                                                   30.0      50           15.0       15.0           15.0           -
Farmer training center (15 beds)
Kolahun                                     15.0             15.0                                                   15.0      33            5.0       10.0             5.0
Sub-Total                                              110.0                                                 lo0 n       59          65.0       45.0            20.0
3.   Agriculture
Sundry small buildings at
experimental and demonstration
farms etc.                                                   15.0        10.0                                      25.0       50           13.0       12.0           13.0
Sub-Total                                               15.0        10.0                                      25.0       50          13.0       12.0            13.0
4.   Co-operative/Credit
Materials for small village stores, etc.                                   10.0       10.0      10.0                 30.0       50          15.0       15.0            15.0
Sub-Total                                                           10.0       10.0      10.0                 30.0       50          15.0       15.0            15.0
5.   Roads and Transport
Materials for small bridges and
culverts, etc.                                               20.0         15.0       15.0      10.0                 60.0       70          42.0       18.0            42.0
Workshop                                                      15.0                                                   15.0       60           9.0        6.0             9.0
Sub-Total                                               35.0        15.0       15.0      10.0                 75.0       68          51.0       24.0            51.0           -
6.   Shistosomiasis Surveillance Unit
Office/laboratory                                             25.0                                                   25.0       70          18.0        7.0             -           18.0
Sub-Total                                               25.0                                                  25.0       70           18.0        7.0            -            18.0
7.   Wells
Construction materials                                         25.0        30.0       30.0      15.0                100.0       50          50.0       50.0            50.0
Sub-Total                                               25.0        30.0       30.0      15 0                100.0       50          50.0        50.0           50. 0
TOTAL                                                  280.0        65.0       55.0      35.0                435.0       60         261.0       174.0          198.0          63.0



L1i3-, A
LOFA CUTNTY AGRICULTUR AL DEVTiOPMNEJT FROJECT
Project Costs - Vehicles
(US$  000)
IDA          USAID
Unit                 /1                                                                                            Foreign Exchange    Local         Financed       Financed
Cost         Year 0         Year I         Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5       TOTAL        %          Cost      Cost         Foreign Exchange
1.   FHU/Adsiinistratisn/
Finance
Saloon Cars - 2000 c.c.          5.0    (2)  10.0    (1)   5.0                 -       (2R)  10.0            -               _          25.0
Personnel Carriers               5.4    (1)  5.4               -               -       (IR)   5.4            -               -          10.8
Pick-up - 1500 c.c.              4.0                    (1)   4.0              -                -     (1)   4.0              -           8.0
Four-wheel drive Vehicle         9.0            -       (1)   9.0              -                -            -               -           9.0
Motor Cycles                     0.7                    (1)   0.7      (1)   0.7                -            -               -           1.4
Sub-Total                                 15.4           18.7            0.7             15.4           4.0                         54.2       80          40.0       14.2         40.0
II.   Training
Personnel Carriers               5.4                   (2)  10.8               -                -    (IR)   5.4              -          16.2
Pick-ups 1500 c.c.               4.0            _              -       (1)   4.0                -            -               -           4.0
Sub-Total                                  -             10.8            4.0               -            5.4             -           20.2       80          16.0       4.2          16.0
III.   Land Planning
Four-wheel drive vehicle         9.0            -       (1)   9.0              -                -            -               -           9.0
Pick-ups - 1500 c.c.             4.0            -       (2)   8.0              -        (1)   4.0            -               _          12.0
Motor Cycles                      -                     (1)   0.7      (1)   0.7       (IR)   0.7            -               -           2.8
Sub-Total                                                17.7            0.7              4.7            0.7            -           23.8       80          20.0        3.8         20.0
IV.   Agriculture
Four-wheel drive vehicle         9.0            -       (1)   9.0              -                -            -               -           9.0
Pick-ups - 1500 c.c.             4.0            -       (2)   8.0      (1)   4.0                -    (2R)   8.0              -          20.0
Motor Cycles                     0.7            -     (30)  21.0    (40)  28.0         (70)  49.0   (80)  35.0    (30)  21.0           154.0
Sub-Total                                  -             38.0           32.0             49.0          43.0            21.0        163.0       80         144.0       39.0        144.0
V.  Cooperative Credit
Saloon Car - 2000 c.c.           5.0            -       (1)   5.0              -                -            -               -           5.0
Personnel Carrier                5.4            _       (1)   5.4              -                -    (1R)   5.4              -          10.8
Pick-ups                         4.0            -       (2)   8.0      (2)   8.0        (2)   8.0   (2R)   8.0               -          32.0
Motor Cycles                     0.7            -      (15)  10.5    (20)  14.0        (35)  24.0   (20)  14.0    (10)   7.0            69.5
Bicycles                         0.1            -       (3)   0.3              -        (3)   0.3            -               -           0.6
Sub-Total                                 -             29.2           22.0             32.3           27.4            7.0        117.9       80         100.0       17.9          -             100.0
VI.   Roads
Pick-ups - 1500  0,c.            4.0            -       (1)   4.0      (1)   4.0                -    (IR)   4.0              -          12.0
Grader                          40.0            -       (1)  40.0              -                -             -              -          40.0
Sub-Total                                               44.0            4.0               -             4.0             -          52.0       80           40 0      12.0        400.0
VII,   Schistosoniasic Unit
Personnel Carrier                5.4            -             -        (1)   5.4                -      (1)   5.4             -          10.8
Motor Cycles                     0.7            -             -         (1)   0.7               -      (1)   0.7             -            1.4
Sub-Total                                 -              -               6.1              -             6.1             -          12.2       80           10.0       2.2           -              10.0
Spares for Vehicles                             -           150.0              -                _-                           -         150.0        80         120.0       30.0        120.0             -
TOTAL                                     -           323.3             69.5           101.4           90.6            28.0       613.3       80          490.0    123.3          380.0           110.0
/t  For financia  and project costs, Year 0 expenditure is added to Year I.                                                                                                                                               -c



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs - Equipment
(US$ '000)
IDA            USAID
Unit                  /1                                                                                            Foreign Exchange    Local Financed Fo-  Financed Fo-
Cost       Year    0-              1              2               3              4               5         Total    %            Cost      Cost reigh Exchange reign Exch.
I.  PMU Administration/Finance
12  Typewriters                            0.4          (2)   o.8       (6)   2.h      (4)   1.6             -              -               -          4.8    80            3.8       1.0       -          -
50  Desk calculators                       0.2          (5)   1.0    (25)   5.0    (20)  4.o                 -                              -         10.0    80            8.o       2.0       -          -
Radio comunication  (set)             5.o                 5.0             -              -              -               -              -          5.0    80             4.0       1.0       -          -   -
Sundry equipment                                          2.0            3.0             -              -               -              -          5.0    80            4.o        1.0       -          -
Other furnishings/equipmt.                               10.0           45.0             -              -               -              -         55.0    80           44.o      11.0        -          -
Subtotal                                           18.8            55.4            5.6                                                      79- -79   863.8    8              0      63.8        - -
II.  Training
Dormitory kitchen equipment                               -             20.0             -              _               4.o                      24.0    60           16.0       8.o        -          -
Training aids                                                           10.0             -              4.o             -              -         14.0    80            11.2       2.8       -          -
Audio-vidual aids                                         -             15.0             5.0           10.0             5.0            5.0       140.     8o          32.0       8.0        -          -
Sundry, furniture,etc.                                    -              5.0             5.0            -               -              -         10.0    50             5.0       5.0       -            -
Subtotal                                             -             50.0           10.0            14.o            9.0             5.0       88.0    73           614.2     2         64.2
III.  Land Development
Mapping and Gurveyi,%g
equipment, and
sundries                                                -             10.0             5.0            -               -              -         "5.0    80           12.0       3.0        -          -
IV.  Agriculture
Mechanical hand winches               o.6                 -       (25)  15.0   (16)   10.0               -                             -         25.o    80            20.0       5.0       -          -
Miscellaneous laboratory
and field trial eqmt.                                   -             10.0            10.0            5.0             q.0            5.0       35.0    80           28.0        7.0       -          -   -
Special provision /2                                      -            150.0           150.0            -               -                       3-60      Bo 50       240.0o    60.0        -          -   -
Subtotal                                             -            175.0          170.0             5.0            5.0             5.0      360.0     b          28.        72 .0    288.0         - -
V.  Cooperative Credit
Pocket calculator                     0.1                 -              10.0            8.0             2.0                            -         20.0    80           16.o       4.o       -          -
Sundries                                                  -               5.0            5.0             -              -              -         10.0    80             8.o       2.0       -          -
Subtotal                                             -             15.0           13.0             2.0            -               -         30.0                 214.0     T6         -              2.
V1. Roads
Tools and miscellaneous                                   -               5.0            5.0             -              -               -         10.0    80            8.o       2.0
Workshop equipment                                        -              15.0           10.0             -              -               -         25.0    80           20.0       5.0
Subtotal                                            -              20.0           15.0             -              -               -         35.0     80          28.0       7.0    -2         -7
VII. Schistosomiasis Unit
Laboratory equipment                                      _-                             5.0            10.0            5.O             -         20.0    80           16.o       4.0       -
Sundries and furniture                                    -               _              2.0             2.0            1.0             -         5.0    80             4.o       1.0       -
Subtotal                                             -                              7.0           12.0            6.0             -         25.0     80          20.0      77T         -         20.0
TOTAL                                          -            3..2            225.6            33.0           20.0            10.0      632.8    79          o00.0    132.8    456.0         44.0
H 5.
/1  For financial and project costs, Year 0 expenditure is added to Year 1 .
/2  Provision for  mechanical land development in case of labor constraints.                                                  



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Project Costs - Salaries and Wages
(US$ ' 000)
Foreign Exchange
Annual                                                                                                                      Foreign Ex>change    Local    IDA            USAID
Cost                 0                1               2               3                4               5          Total    %              Cost      Cost  Financed  Financed
1.  PMU/Administration/Finance                              (1 /2 year)
Project manager                        45-0            (1)  25.o       (1 )  45.0      (1) 145.0        O )  45.0       (i )  45.0      (1)  45.0        250.0   100           250.0        -       250.0
Deputy                              10.0           (1)   5-0       (I)  10.0        (1)  10.0       (I)  10.0       (1)  10.0       (1)  10.0         55.o       -            -        55-0        -
Administrative manager                 40.0                  -         (1 )  40.0      (1)  40.0       (1 )  40.0      (1 )  40.0       (i)  40.0       200.0   100            200.0        -       200.0
Deputy                               9.0                  *        (1 )   9.0       (I)   9.0       (1 )   9.0      O )   9.0       (1)   9.0         45.o       -            -        45.0        -
Finance manager                        40.0                  -         Oi)  40.0       (i)  40.0       ( )  40.0        ( )  40.0       Ci)  40.0        200.0   100           200.0        -       200.0
Deputy                               9.0                  -        (1 )   9.0       Ci)   9.0       (1)   9.0       (1)   9.0       (1      9.0      145.o       -            -        45.0        -
Performance audit/planning              40.0                 -         (1)  40.0       Ci)  40.0       (i)  40.0        Ci)  40.0       Ci)  40.0        200.0   100           200.0        -       200.0
Deputy                               8.0                  -        (I)   8.0       (1)   8.0        (i)   8.o       (1)   8.0        (1)   8.0        40.0       -            -        40.0        -
Planning assistants                     2.0                  -         (3)   6.0       (3)   6.0       (3)   6.0        (2)   4.0       (2)   4.0         26.0      -            -         26.0       -
Bookkeeper/cashier                       2.5                 -         (2)   5.0       (2)   5.0       (2)   5.0        (2)   5.o       (2)   5.0         25.0      -            -         25.0        -
Bookkeeper assistants                   2.0                  -         (3)   6.0       (3)   6.0       (3)   6.0        (3)   6.0       (3)   6.0         30.0      -            -         30.0       -
Radio operator                           1.5          (1)   0.5        (I )   1.5      ( )   1.5        (I )   1.5      ( )   1.5       (1 )   1.5         8.0       -            -         8.0        -
Clerks                                  1.5                  -         (4)   6.0       (4)   6.0       (4)   6.0        (4)   6.0       (4)   6.0         30.0                   -        30.0        -
Secretaries                             1.8           (1 )   0.9       (4)   7.2       (4)   7.2       (4)   7.2        (4)   7.2       (4)   7.2         36.9                   -         36.9        -
Drivers                                  1.0           ( )   0.5       (4)   4.0       (4)   4.0        (4)   4.0       (4)   4.0       (4)   4.0         20.0                    -        20.0                   -
Messengers                               o.8          (1)   o.4        (4)   3.2        (6)   4.8       (6)   4.8       (6)   4.8        (6)   4.8        22.8       -            -        22.8        -
Monrovia
Procurement officer                     4.o           (1)   2.0        ( )   4.0o      O )   4.0o       ( )   4.0       O )   4.0       O )   4.0         22.0                   -         22.0        -
Secretary clerk                         1.8           (1)   0.9        (2)   3.6       (2)   3.6        (2)   3.6       (2)   3.6       (2)   3.6         18.9                    -        18.9        -
Radio operator                           1.8           (1)   0.8       O )   1.8        (1 )   1.8      (1 )   1.8      (1 )   1.8       (1 )   1.8        9.8       -            -         9.8        -
Messenger                                1.0          C1)   1.0        (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0        10.5                    -        10.5        -
Flat servants                            1.0           (2)   1.0       (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0         11.0       -           -         11.0        -
Driver                                  1.2             i)   0.6       (1 )   1.2      (1)   1.2 _       i)   1.2       Ci)   1.2       Ci)   1.2          6.6       -            -         6.6        -
Subtotal                                 38.1            254.5           256.1            256.1           254.1           254.1    1,313.0    65            850.0    I850
2.  Training
Training development officer           40.0            (1)  20.0       Ci)  40.0        (1)  40.0       Ci)  40.0       Ci)  40.0        Qi)  40.0       220.0   100           220.0        -        220.0
Deputy                               8.0                  -         (1 )   8.0      (1)   8.0       (1)   8.0       (1 )   8.0       C )   8.0        40.0       -            -        40.0        -
Instructors                             5.0                   -        (2)  10.0        (2)  10.0       (2)  10.0       (2)  10.0        (2)  10.0        50.0       -            -        50.0        -
Superintendents -                       3.5                  -         (2)   7.0       (2)   7.0        (2)   7.0       (2)   7.0        (2)   7.0        35.0       -            -        35.0        -
training centers
Matrons - training centers               2.0                  -        (2)   4.0        (2)   4.0       (2)   4.o       (2)   4.0        (2)   4.0        20.0       -            -        20.0        -
Cooks - training centers                1.5                   -        (2)   3.0        (2)   3.0       (2)   3.0       (2)   3.0        (2)   3.0        15.0       -                      15.0      -
Helpers                                  o.8                  -        (4)   3.2        (4)   3.2       (4)   3.2       (4)   3.2        (4)   3.2        16.o       -            -        16.0        -
Clerks                                   1.5                  -        (3)   4.5       (3)   4.5        (3)   4.5       (3)   4.5       (3)   4.5         22.5       -            -        22.5        -
Secretary                                1.8                 -         ( )   1.8        (1 )   1.8      (t )   1.8      (1 )   1.8       (l )   1.8        9.0       -            -         9.0        -
Messenger                                0.8                  -         (2)   1.6       (2)   1.6       (2)   1.6        (2)   1.6       (2)   1.6          8.0      -            -         8.0        -
Drivers                                  1.0                  -        (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0        10.0       -            -        10.0        -
Subtotal                                  20.0            85.1            85.1             85.1            85.1             85.1       44.5    49             220.0    225.5
3.  Land Planning
Land developaent officer               40.0                   -        (1)  40.0        (1)  40.0       (Q)  40.0              -                -        120.0   100            120.0        -       120.0
Deputy                               6.0                  -         (C )   6.o      (1 )   6.0      (1 )   6.0      (1)   6.0               -          24.o      -            -         24.0       -
Surveyor                                4.5                   -        (3)  13.5        (3)  13.5       (3)  13.5       (3)  13.5               -         54.o       -            -        54.o        -
Mapping assistant                        2.5                  -        (2)   5.0        (2)   5.o       (2)   5.0        (2)   5.o              -          20.0      -            -        20.0        -
Clerk                                    1.5                  -        Ci)   1.5        Ci)   1.5       (1)   1.5        (1)   1.5              -           6.o      -                      6.o        -
Secretary                               1.8                   -        (1)   1.8        (I)   1.8       Ci)   1.8       (1)   1.8               -           7.2      -                       7.2       -
Driver                                   1.0                  -        (I)   1.0        (1)   1.0       (1)   1.0        (1)   1.0              -           4.o      -            -          4.0       -
Messenger                                o.8                  -        (2)   1.6        (2)   1.6       (2)   1.6 6      (2    1                -           6.4      -          106.14                 - 1
Subtotal                                   -              70.14            70.14 -7 0.                     30.64             -         27141     To120 .61 iT21                    T20 
0 .



Salaries  nd Wages (cont'd)
Foreign Exhange
Annual                   /1                                                                                                 Foreign Exchange   Local          iDA       Sx    D
Cost                 0                1               2               3                4               5        Total       %            Cost    Cost   Financed   Financed
4.  Agriculture                                              (172years)
Agricultural prodiction manager   40.0                (1)  20.0       (1 )  40.0       (1)  40.0      (O)  40.0        (1)  40.0       (1 )  40.0       220.0   100           220.0        -       220.0
Deputy                               9.0           ( )   4.o       ( )   9.0       (1)   9.0        (1)   9.0       (I)   9.0       (I )   9.0        49.0      -            -         49.o       -
Extension agent                         6.o                  -         (i )   6.0      (1)   6.o       (1)   6.0        (1)   6.0       (i )   6.o       30.0       -            -        30.0        -
Extension field  supervisors            2.5                  -         (2)   5.0       (3)   7.5       (5)  12.5        (7)  17.5       (5)  12.5        55.0       -            -        5s.o        -
Extension aides                         2.0                  -        (33)  66.0    (64) 128.0    (o00) 200.0   (138) 276.0    (70) 140.0               810.0       -            -       810.0        -
Field experiinent officer               5.0                  -         (1)   5.0       (1)   s.o       (')   5.o        (1)   5.0       (1)   5.o        25.0       -            -        25.0        -
Field experiment assistant              2.5                  -         (3)   7.5       (3)   7.5       (3)   7.5        (3)   7.5       (3)   7.5        37.5       -            -        37.5        -
Narseries officer                       3.0                  -         (1 )   3.0      (I )   3.0      ( )   3.0        (1)   3.0       (I )   3.0       15.0       -            -        15.0        -
Headmen                                 1.0                  -         (2)   2.0       (4)   4.o       (4)   4.o       (4)   4.0        (4)   4.o        18.0       -            -        18.0        -
Laborers                                o.6                  -        (1o)   6.o      (20)  12.0    (10)  12.0    (10)  12.0    (10)  12.0               54.0       -            -        54.0        -
Driver                                  1.0           (1)   0.5        (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0        10.5       -            -        10.5        -
Subtotal                                 24.5           151 F522.0                       301.0           3c2.0            241.0   1 ,324.0    17            220.0  1       0,Y .  220.0        -
5.  Cooperative/Credit
Commercial manager                     45.0                  -         (1)  35.o       (1)  45.o       (1)  45.0       (O)  45.o        (i)  45-0       215.0   100           215.0                   -        215.0
Co-op/Credit manager                   40.0                  -         (I)  30.0       ( )  4o.o       (1)  40.0   (3/12) 10.0                 -        120.0   100           120.0                   -        120.0
Co-op/Credit officer                    5.0                  -         (4)  15.0       (6)  30.0       (6)  30.0       (4)  20.0        (4)  20.0       115.0       -            -       115.0        -           -
Co-op/Credit senior field officer  3.0                       -         (2)   3.0       (3)   9.0       (4)  12.0       (5)  15.0        (3)   9.0        48.0       -            -        48.o        -           -
Co-op/Credit field officer              2.0                  -        (17)  17.0    (32)  64.0    (50) 100.0    (69) 138.0    (35)  70.0                389.0       -            -       389.0        -           -
Secretary/clerks                        1.8                  -        (13)   4.0       (5)   9.0       (6)  10.8        (5)   9.0       (5)   9.0        41.8       -            -        41.8        -           -
Drivers                                 1.0                  -         (2)   1.5       (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0        (2)   2.0       (2)   2.0          9.5      -            -          9.5       -           -
Messengers/sweepers                      0.8                 -         (2)            1.6 (2)         1 1  .2)   1..6   (2)21) 1(28..0                              -            -          o.0       -
Subtotal                                   -            107.i            200.6           251.5            240.6           156.6      956.3    35            335.0     611.         -
6.  Roads and Transport
Road supervisor                         5.0                  -         (1)   6.0       (1 )   5.0       (1)   6.0       ( )   5.o        (1)  5.0         25.0      -            -         25.0       -           -
Grader operator                         2.5                  -         (1)   2.5       (1)   2.5        (1)   2.5       (1)   2.5        (1)  2.5        12.5       -            -        12.5        -           -
Pickup driver                           1.5                  -         (1)   1.5      (O)   1.5        ( )   1.5        ()   1.5         (1)  1 .5        7.5       -            -          7.5       -           -
Laborers                                1.0                  -         (4)   4.o       (4)   4.0        (4)   4.0       (4)   4.o        (4)  4.0        20.0       -            -         20.0       -           -
-              13.0            13.0            13.0             13.0            13.0        65.0      -            -         6s.0
Workshop foreman                         3.0                 -         (1 )   3.0      (1 )   3.0      (1 )   3.0       (1)   3.0        (1)  3.0         15.0      -            -         15.0
Mechanics/tradesmen                      2.0                           (6)  12.0       (8)  16.0       (8)  16.0        (8)  16.0        (8) 16.0         76.0      -            -         76.0
Laborers                                1.0                  -         (7)   7.0       (9)   9.0        (9)   9.0       (9)   9.0        (9)  9.0        43.0       -            -        43.0
Storeman                                2.0                  _         (1)   2.0       (1)   2.0        (1)   2.0_    (i)   2.0          (2)  2.0        10.0       -                     10.0
Subtot al                                                37. -3.0 *3.0 *3.0                                                53.0       209. o              -  -         209. o
7.  Schistosomiasis Unit
Medical doctor                         50.0                   -               -        (1)  50.0        (1)  50.0       (1)  50.0              -          150.0   100          150.0        -          -        150.0
Senior laboratory technician            2.1                                   -        ()   2.1         (1 )   2.1      (1)   2.1       (1)   3.0          9.3       -           -         9.3        -           -
Junior laboratory technician            1.5                                   -        (1)   1.5       (i )   1.5              15       (1)   1.5          6.o       -           -         6.0
Laboratory assistants                   1.2                                   -        (2)   2.4        (2)   2.4       (2)   2.4       (2)   2.4          9.6        -          -         9.6
Secretary/clerk                         1.8                                   -        ()   1.8         (i)   1.8       (1)   1.8       (1)   1.8          7.2       -           -         7.2
Driver                                  1.0                  -                -        (1)   1.0        (1)   1.0       (1)   1.0       (1)   1.0          4.0       -           -         4.o
Messenger                                0.8                                          I(1)   0.6        (  )   0.8      (I)      '    -        'r          3.2        - -         -        3.2         -         1
Subtotal                                                    -              5)5~6            55 .                 F T       -1 0.  b-I-.            O         150.&      39.3         -         ITO 71)
T 0 T AL                                   -             788.2           938.8         1,o56.6         1,o04.8            790.3   4,668.7    41%          1,895.0  2,773.7  1,410.0          485.6
/1  For financial and pr oject costs, Year 0 expenditure is added to Year 1 .
a m
ro0



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pro jeet Costs - Velhicle Operatirn Costt
(USs 'ooo)
IDA
Annual                                                                                                        Foreign EKchange    Local   Financed
cost/      Year   0              1              2             3              4              5       Total      %          Cost      Cost    FE Cost
vehicle
I.  PMU Administration Finance
Saloon cars                         2.5                2.5            7.5           7.5            7.5            7.5           7.5       40.0
Personnel carrier                   3.3                1.6            3.3           3.3            3.3            3.3           3.3       18.1
Pickups                             2.3                -              2.3           2.3            2.3            2.3           2.3       11.5
4-WD vehicle                        4.6                _              4.6           4.6            4.6            4.6           4.6       23.0
Motorcycles                         o.6                -              0.6           o.6            o.6            o.6            o.6       5.4
Subtotal                                          4.1           17.7          17.7           17.7           17.7          17.7       98.0    70          70.0      MO       70.0
II. Training
Personnel carrier                   3.3                -        (2)   6.6           6.6            6.6            6.6           6.6       33.0
Pickups                             2.3                -              -       (1)  4.0             4.0            4.0           4.0       16.     -           -         -        -
Subtotal                                          _             6.6           10.6          1i0.6    .6                    0.6       49.0    70          30.0     19.0      30.0
III. Land Planning
4-WD vehicle                        4.6                -              4.6           4.6            4.6            4.6           4.6       23.0
Pickups                             2.3                -              4.6           4.6            6.9            6.9           6.9       29.9
Motorcycles                         o.6                -              o.6           1.2            1.2            1.2            1.2       5.4
Subtotal                                          -             9.8           10.4           12.7           12.7          12.7       58.3    70          40.0     1.3       40.0
IV. Agriculture
4-WD vehicle                        4.6                =              4.6            4.6           4.6            4.6            4.6      23.0
Pickups                             2.3                 .             4.6           6.9            6.9            6.9            6.9      32.2
Motorcycles                         0.6                -             18.0          42.0           60.0           48.0           45.0     213.0
Subtotal                                          -             27.2          53.5           71.5           59.5          66.5      268.2    70         1 9T.0O            190.0
V. Coop/Oredit
Saloon car                          2.5                -              2.5            2.5           2.5            2.5            2.5      12.5
Personnel carrier                   3.3                -              3.3            3.3           3.3            3.3            3.3      16.5
Pickups                             2.3                -              4.6            9.2          13.8           13.8           13.8      55.2
Motorcycles                         o.6                -              9.0           21.0          33.0           25.0           20.0     108.0
Subtotal                                          -             19 4          36.0           52.6           44.6          39.6      192.2    70         1          Z       13.
VI. Roads
Pickup                              2.3                -              2.3            4.6           4.6            4.6            4.6       20.7
Grader                             10.0                -             10.0           10.0          10.0           10.0            10       60.0
Subtotal                                          -             12.3          14.6           14.6           14.6           14.6      70.7    70          750       0        50.0
VII. Schistosoniasis Unit
Personnel carrier                   3.3                -              -              3.3           3.3            6.6            -         13.2
Motorcycles                         o.6                -              _              0.6            o.6           1.2                       2.4
Subtotal                                          -              -             3 9            3.9            7.5 8                   16.6    70          10.0        5       10.0
VIII. Car Allowances for Senior Staff
Divisional heads                    2.5                _        (7)  17.5      (8)  20.0    (8)   20.0      (7)  17.5      (6)  15.0       90.0
Deputy                              2.0                -        (6)  12.0      (6)  12.0    (6)   12.0      (6)  12.0      (6)  12.0       60.0
Subtotal                                          -             29.5          32.0           32.0           29.5           27.0     150.0    70          110.0     ;h    110.0
TOTAL                           4.1          123.1          179.9         216.8          198.2          179.9     902.0    70          630.0    272.0  1,630.0



LIBERIA
LOFA OOUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs - General Services Costs
USiS '000 )
IDA      USAID
uJnit Year  0            1             2             3             4              5       Total   Fo"eign Exchange   Local  Financed   Financed
CostYe    012Total                                                                                             cost   _a      FECos    FE Cost
1. PMU Adminis tration/Finance
Rent - Staff houses                   3.0  (2) 50         (10) 60.0                   (10) 30.0      (9) 27.0    (8)  24.0    146.0        -          -      1h6.o
- Offices                        8.0        -            16.0           -             8.0            8.0           8.0      40.0     -          -       40.0
- Staff accommodation, Monrovia  7.0        7.0           2.0           7.0           7.0            7.0           7.0      37.0     -          -       37.0
Office expenditure (all divisions)               3.0          5.0          600.o          70.0           60.0          50.0     293.0   20          60.0    233.0    00.o
Subtotal                              10.0         133.0          67.0         115.0         102.0           89.o    516.0   12           60.0   I7o'&       60.0       -
2. Training
Operating coot3 includie fu ud
Staff training center at Voinjama                           6.o           8.0           8.0            6.0           5.0      33.0
Farmer training center atKolahun                            4.0           7.0            7.0           5.0           40.      27.0
Course fee transport and subsistence
CAES  Suakoko                                               5.0           7.0            7.0           4.0           3.0      26.0
AETC  Johnsonville, Monrovia                                5.0          10,0          10,0            7-0           5.0      37.0
Trainirng aids, films, etc.                     3.0           5.0           5-0            5.0           5.0           2.0      25.0   _ _
Subtotal                               3.0          25.0          37.0          37.0           27.0          19.0    148.0   20           28.0    120.0      28.0       -
3.  Land Planning - miscellaneous                                 10.0           5.0           5.0            3.0           2.0      25.0   50          13.0    12.0    13.0          -
4.  Agriculture   - miscellaneous                                 10.0          10.0           10.0           8.0           6.o      44.0   50           22.0     22.0     22.0       -
5.  Cooperative/Credit - miscellaneous                             5.0           5.0            5.0           5.0           5.0      25.0   50           13.0     12.0      -        13.0
6.  Roads and Transport - miscellaneous                            2.0           2.0           2.0            2.0           2.0      10.0   50           5.o       5.o      5.0       -
7.  Schistosomiasis Unit - drugs and laboratory                    -             5.0            5.o           5.0           2.0      17.0   50            9.0      8.o      -        19.0
materials
TOTAL                           13.0         185.0         131.0          179.0         152.0         125.0    785.0   1900    635                    128.0      22.0
/1 First two years rent in advance.



ANNEX 9
Table 9
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Cash Flov for Governeant of Liberia
(US$ 0oGo)
Year I        Year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year 9       Year 10        Year 11      Year 12       Year 13-20        Year 21-40      Year 41-50
Inflow of Fenda
IDA credit .                                        1,500.0        1,500.0     1,000.0      1,000.0      1,000.0
USAID  ..an                                           300.0         800.0      1,500.0      1,500.0        900.0
Revenue from indirect tax 1/                           -             -              4.0         15.0        31.0         75.0         156,0       227.0        327.0          412.0          467.0        505.0          530.0             550.0           550.0
LP9  Dividend  2/                                     -               1.9          6.0         12.2         20.9        46.0         87.0        134.5         191.7         236.0          250.0        256.0          256.0             256.0           256.0
Total Inflow                                    1,800.0       2,301.9      2,510.0      2,527.2      1,951.9        121.0        243.0        361.5        518.7         648.0           717.0        761.0          786.0             806.0           806.0
Ontflow of Funds
Pr-jeat Coats                                         2,635.0     2,870.0      3,300.0      3,980.0      4,115.0
ProJect Maintenance coste 3/                           -             -           -            -            -            500.0        420.0        420.0        420.0         420.0           420.0        420.0          420.0             420.0           420.0
Lees, Development Fund Levies                          -             ( 3.3)       (10.4)       (21.4)      (36.6)        (80.6)     (152.5)      (253.3)      (335.4)        (413.6)        (437.2)      (446.7)        (448,6)          (448.6)          (448.6)
Total Outflow                                   2,635.0        2,866.7     3,289.6      3,958.6      4,078.4        419.4        267.5        166.7          84.6           6.4          (17.2)       (26.7)          (28.8)           (28.8)          (28.8)
Net Inflow (Outflow)                                  (835.0)       (564.8)      (779.6)   (1,431.4)   (2,126.5)        (298.4)        24.5        194.8       434.0          641.6          734.2        787.7           814.8            835.8            835.8
Debt Sertviing
IDA credit - Principl                                                                                                                                                                         60.0         60.0            60.0            180.0            180.0
- Interent  4/                               5.6          16.9         26.3         33.8         41.3         45.0         45.0         45.0         45.0          45.0           43.0          43.0           43.0              21.7            21.7
USAID Loon - Principal                                                                                                                                                                       166.6         166.6          166.6            166.6
- Interest  5/                               3.0          14.0         37.0         67.0         91.0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0           88.5          88.5           88.5             88.5
Subtotal                                            8.6           30.9        63.3        100.8        132.3        145.0        145.0        145.0         145.0         145.0          358.1        358.1          358.1             456.8           201.7
Net Annual Inflow (outflow)
efter debt servicing                                 (843.6)       (595.7)      (842.9)   (1,532.2)   (2,258.8)        (443.4)      (120.5)        49.8        289.0         496.6          376.1        429.6           456.7            379.0            634.1
Cumulative                                            (843.6)    (1,439.3)   (2,282.2)   (3,114.4)   (6,673.2)   (6,516.6)   (6,637.1)   (6,587.3)   (6,298.3)    (5,801.7)               (5,425.6)   (4,996.0)        (1,342.4)         6,237.6         12,577.6
1/  12% of all net incremental fern income (financial farcgate vele of priject output) lagged by 2 years.
2/  4% of Fob Monrovia value of project coffee end cocoa output (based an 50% COL equity chore oc tho 8%
LPMC profit margin), lagged by one year.
3/ 7% of Fob Monrovia value of project coffee end cocoa output.
4/  IDA interest hab  been calculated at 314 of 1% on outstanding balance Yrs. 1-10 and avecaged over Yrs. 11-50.
3/ USAIi3 interest has been calculated at 2% on outntanding balance Yrs. 1-10 and ov-raged coer Ytn. 11-40 at 3%.



ANNEX 9
Table 10
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs - Farm Inputs
(US$ '000)
Foreign Exchange
Foreigh Exchange      Local        IDA          USAID
YEAR                    1          2           3          4          5       Total         %         Cost       Cost    Financed       Financed
Fertilizer - Development                               7.0       43.0      100.2      179.3       209.8      539.3       80        h30.0       109.3        -             -
Seasonal (Incremental)                    9.0      45.1        80.4      112.8      24D.2       495.5       8u        400.0        95.5        -             -
Sub-total                                        16.0       88.1      180.6      292.1      458.0    1,034.8        8C        830.0       204.8        -            830.0
Rice Seed                                              3.8       16.0       29.2       40.6        52.2      141.8       10          20.0      121.8         -            20.0
Seedlings (Coffee and Cocoa)                           3.9      314.8      348.7      443.9       533.4    1,644.7       10        160.0    1,484.7         -            160.0
Tools and Sprayers                                     9.3       60.4       80.8      109.9       149.5      409.9       80        320.0        89.9        -            320.0
Agricultural Chemicals                                 0.8        2.3        5.1        8.7        15.2       32.1       80         30.0         2.1        -             30.0
Shade Trees (Coffee)                                    -         5.5        5.5        6.6         7.7       25.3        -          -          25.3        -
33.8      487.1      649.9      901.8    1,216.0    3,288.6        41      1,360.0    1,928.6         -          1,360.0
Farm Development Labor - Hired                          -        45.o       75.0      120.0       180.0      420.0        -                    420.0         -             -
TOTAL                                              33.8      532.1      724.9   1,021.8    1,396.0    3,704.6           -    1,360.0      2,348.6         -         1,360.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         =       =         =                    



ANNEX 9
Table 11
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
IDA Credit Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative
US$ million       US$ million
Fy 1976        Quarter 1
2
3                         0.2                0.2
4                         0.3                0.5
FY 1977                1                         0.4                 0.9
2                         0.4                1-3
3                         0.4                1.7
4                         0A4                2.1
Fyl1978                1                         0.4                 2.5
2                         0.3                2.8
3                         0.3                3.1
14                        0.3                3.4
Fy 1979                1                         0.3                 3.7
2                         0.3                4.0
3                         0.3                4.3
4                         0.2                4.5
Fy 1980                1                         0.2                 4.7
2                         0.2                4.9
3                         0.2                5.1
4                         0.2                5.3
Fy 1981                1                         0.2                 5.5
2                         0.2                5.7
3                         0.1                5.8
4                         0.2                6.0



AK'fiPIEX 10
Page 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
1.          The annual incremental costs and benefits used in calculating the
economic rate of return to the project are given in Tablesl and 2 and a summary
of the sensitivity analysis in Table 3. The following assumptions were used in
the calculations:
(a)  the economic life of the project is assumed to be 30
years from project year 1 and no residual value is
attributed after that period. All development
activities (new planting/replanting coffee and cocoa,
swamp reclamation, improvement in swamp and upland
rice cultivation) will be initiated and substantially
completed by the end of project development period,
1980;
(b) project costs (see Table 1);
(i)  all identifiable taxes and duties on goods
and services are excluded;
(ii) price contigencies are excluded but physical
contingencies (at 5% of base costs) have
been included during the economic life of
the project (30 years);
(iii) an amount of US$.9 million invested for
training and institution building have been
excluded, as these are regarded as technical
assistance for subsequent projects;
(iv) all material farm inputs (seeds, fertilizers
agricultural chemicals, tools and equipment)
have been costed at full landed price in the
project area plus all distributiori and
handling costs;
(v)   all family and hired labor were costed at
50 percent of the estimated wage rate ($1.00
per manday) to reflect average opportunity
cost and productivity in the area;



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(vi)   the extension coverage of agriculture and coop/
credit officers gradually reverts to a normal
staffing level during the post-project period
on the grounds that the improved technology by
then will be adequately diffused and the coops
would be capable of handling the farm inputs
and credit system;
(vii)  out of the total GOL investment of US$1.5 million
for implementing the road program of the project
(para 9.01 (g)), an amount of US$1.1 million (i.e.,
excluding US$0.4 million of price contingencies)
has been included in the economic costs.
(c) Benefits
(i)    yield and production assumptions are given in Annex 1;
(ii)   the value of project milled rice output is treated
as foreign exchange savings (import substitation)
and the value of coffee and cocoa as foreign
exchange earnings;
(iii)  prices have been based on IBRD projections for
1980 in 1975 constant dollars (Annex 8); and
(iv)   no additional benefits due to road improvement/
development are taken into consideration.
2.      Results of the economic analysis based on the above assumptions are
presented in Table 3.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
LIBERIA
LOFA COUJNTY AGRITJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Economic Costs
(US$ '000)
Years      1         2          3         4          5          6          7          8          9        10         11-30
Investment Costs
Buildings and Construction
Materials                            280         65         55          35       -          -          -          -
Vehicles                               324         70        101          91      28
Equipment                              344        226         33          20      10
Salaries and Wages                     788        939      1,057       1,095     790
Vehicle Operating Expenses              127       180        217         198     180
General Services                        198       131        179         152     125
Farm Inputs - Development                20       507        656         922   1,135         536         243
Farm Inputs - Seasonal                  37        206        511         939   1,632       1,822       1,853      2,076     2,055      2,055      2,055
Consultants                              10        30         30          30       -          -          -          -          -          -          -
LBDI Branch gstablishment               80         70                      -       -          -          -          -          -         -          -
GOL Road Investment                    h81        137        lh6         l1      I2P
Past-PrnitjPt PrLrtrnt Cnqt-c
Salaries and Wages                                                                           300         300        300        300       300        300
Vehicle Operating Expenses                                                                    50          50         50         50         50         50
Miscellaneous                                                                                  20         20         20         20         20         20
Replacements                                                                                  25          25         25         25         25         25
Total                             2,689      2,561     2,985       3,633   4,022        2,753       2,491      2,471     2,450      2,450      2,450
Less Investment Costs on Training                   300        300         300
J,               2,689      2,261     2,685       3,333   4,022        2,753       2,491      2,471     2,450      2,450      2,450
Less Present Onfarm Costs                  28       121        287         511      790        790         790        790        790        790        790
Present Extension Services           40         40         40         50       60          60          60         60        60         60         60
Incremental Project Costs              2,621      2,100     2,358       2,772   3,177        1,903       1,641      1,621      1,600      1,600     1,600
vLth 5% Physical Contingency         2,752      2,205     2,475       2,910   3,331        1,998       1,723      1,702      1,680      1,680     1,680



ANNEX 10
Table 2,
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic rate of Return
Economic Benefits (US$1000)
Value of Project Output                 Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4     Year 5        Year 6       Year 7      Year 8       Year 9       Year 10      Year 11       Year 12-30
Total value with Project 1/
Coffee                                     21          60          116          196         522        1,226        2,045        2,979       3,687        3,787        3,787           3,787
Cocoa                                      19           67         145          251        464           638          831        1,121        1,338       1,497        1,613           1,637
Paddy                                      85         449        1,118        2,084        3,363       3.548        3,750        3.905       3.984        4,016        4,016           4.016
Total                               125         576        1,379        2,531      4,349         5,412        6,626       8,004        9,009        9,300        9,416           9,440
Total value without project
Coffee                                     20           51          91          140         200          160          160          160          160          160         160              160
Cocoa                                      14           40          52          135         216           173         173          173          173          173         173              173
Paddy                                      52         222          536          961      1,479         1,181        1,181        1.181       1,181          1,181      1,181           1,181
Total                               86          313          679        1,236      1,895         1,514        1,514        1,514       1,514        1,514        1,514           1,514
Incremental value                          39          263         700        1,295       2,454        3,571        4,731        6,109        7,114       7,405        7,521           7,545
1/ Based on economic farmgate values of coffee $1,429/mt, cocoa $966/mt and paddy $233/mt.
See Tables 5a, 5b, 5c, Annex 8 for calculation of economic prices.



ANNEX 10
Table 3
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICIULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
% of Original Estimates
Costs                           Berefits                   Rate of Return*
A        B
100                                100                      25.9%    23.0%
110                                 90                      21.1%    17.9%
100                                 80                      20.6%    17.3%
110                                 80                      18.5%    15.1%
120                                 80                      16.6%    13.0%
110                                 - 1/                    14 .9%    12.1%
100                                100 2/                   25.7%    22.8%
* A - Labour shadow waged at $0.50 per manday
B-- Labour estimated at full wage $1.00 per manday.
1/ Two year delay in project benefits and subsequently
at 90% of estimated benefits.
2/ Assuming a project life of 25 years.



IBRD 11517R
' A d: W: Q . 'r ' ' I i A ' E t g ' o , U 0 ; 4 E u ' ' 95                                                                RFRPYS   <     ?n    ;
''b''f"r''s''lL;=i;  A ', t's~~~~~3L' A'{ C O U N T Y Zorzog9z zG U\)1:: N E A 0 DII?REIA -                                        :     BO
-.:  ,,:RA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oNjomAP                                                                                                                       R/X1ASG  XpS,00:: t:0'2
SI-      R  LnON@                                                      SOUOBR /\  _                                                           tIS ': :i-:;'
COUNTY~~~~                             L OF \AR~1URIR  olScoo                            <                                          SE      0        0    rStL
r                              - J iNbe0sr                                                                                               - )             PMAIL lWroG      4/  0 J NTy        :tA:'t 0/ _     
1  o   >-,J    A  'le   p t \ <                   C  O  U N  T Y        X                )                 i'UL,.rA                           91005
7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wk
: :           MON~~~~~~RIVER                                       OF|GRORs^ )                                                                5         :
C \GAPNDg SSA.E 55t :0-;,--- 
LeIdI: 0   N   A                                                                  A/ing   c
~~~~ijene~~~~~~~~~~~~~ / pnBF5 S\ckk                                                1SaIep
iOMI .-tILU  NT                                            /                       U   N  T   (           N
~ObertRoL MINBE RSI MIN A                              R     5);2          /   ..,_          _,      t>CR^   OF'                                             -.
LACC
DLOACOUNT AGRCOULTURA DEEOMN A                                                                               OlSrJ-  IVOR    COAST&\00 
MINE~~~~~~~
1/.  PR0JECT AREA5             A f /   f        \         :   S 1, N  O      C  O  U  rN T  YZwedrp
COUNTY~~~~~~~~ So2                                  .04akokj S:   'i   ''=\5'soCUNTY                                            Pio 
ne                                                        rnga~~~       ~~~~~~ (I  a                /'p
-e- INTENATIO;ALBOUNAIE HILE  2         ONG                                                   ' i    'i'  0   U  ,.
LB                                      C          iI        d         .         /       I       C, U         T T 'Y
AREAS                                                            SI/NO   COUNTRYYC  )N 9
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N ~ ~ ~ ~      ~          ~         ~        ~         '
LAMONTEROVADS'                                                                                                       ~ak
RAILROADS                     0~~~GR N   I      A SR   A N          II 
a   ,o 01   NT Y0   e00                                                      O N Y          Pb 
I'.,, '  lIIRII,,,,,,, Al '115 I5r d,
~~~~~~~~~~I,O1I 1  ,eklt.1. ... 101.1              9'                    0                                                                                       -t9'  j-- IJReEI97






x r .... o"'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
$  /  i  5  . ''"    ... ''''  E   o  '.                       .  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............. ........
N~~~~~~
t . <   5 t t    3 E J - - --szaesas  s   2 -<e 3  ..  , .  .... . .
LU          ,                                                 D                     K] Z>E/  o    
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
0.                                        .
>-  6    g  X  G  W   0C.
Z 0E
LU~~~~~~~ 
LU    E                       ;A <zZ    
LU
O F*-I       I  I   '  i                                        '
9U
u Q:~~~~~~~~~~~~



