Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7165-GE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 44.2 MILLION
TO
GEORGIA
August 11, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of end-June 1997)
Currency Unit   =   Lari
US$1.00   =   1.30 Laris
1.00 Lari   =   100 tetri
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CG  -  Consultative Group
CIS  -  Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD  -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESAF  -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW   -  Economic and Sector Work
EU  -  European Union
FSB  -  Former State Banks
FSU  -  Former Soviet Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GEF  -  Global Environmental Facility
GNP  -  Gross National Product
IBC  -  Institution Building Credit
IBRD  -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA  -  International Development Association
IDF  -  Institutional Development Fund
IFC  -  International Finance Corporation
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
MIGA  -  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NBG  -  National Bank of Georgia
PFP  -  Policy Framework Paper
SAC  -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC  -  Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SBA  -  Standby Agreement
SBC  -  State Bread Corporation
SDR  -  Special Drawing Rights
SEC  -  Securities and Exchange Commission
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
SPM  -  Ministry of State Property Management
STF  -  Systemic Transformation Facility
TACIS  -  Technical Assistance to the CIS
TICEX  -  Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange
UFSS  -  United Fund for Social Security
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
WTO  -  World Trade Organization
GEORGIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:  Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director:  Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Leader  Hafez Ghanem, ECSPE
Responsible Staff:  Michelle Riboud, Task Manager (ECSPE); S.Ramachandran, Stuart Bell (PSD);
Cyril Muller (ECC03); Vladislav Vucetic, Jonathan Walters (ECSEG); Laura
Rose (ECSHD): K. Subbarao (PSP)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Borrower:           Georgia     Credit and Project Summary
Amount:             SDR 44.2 million (US$ 60 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA, with 10 years grace and 35 years maturity
Commitment Fee:    A variable rate between 0.0-0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance, set annually
by the Executive Directors of IDA
Project ID Number:   GE-PE-44797
Objectives:         The main objective of the credit is to consolidate the stabilization gains recently
achieved and to strengthen the current economic recovery. The reform program
aims at: (a) strengthening public finance while maintaining a prudent monetary
policy; (b) developing the private sector; and (c) alleviating poverty. Among
the key reforms are measures to improve tax revenue collection; restructure
public spending; accelerate privatization; develop capital markets; improve
financial discipline in the energy sector; restructure the banking sector; reform
the provision and financing of social services.
Poverty:            Poverty-focused. The proposed credit would support measures to improve
targeting of social benefits. The program also includes actions to introduce
private pension schemes and prepare reforms of the public pension system, to
provide improved income security to the elderly. The reforms in health and
education aim at ensuring equitable access to essential services and at protecting
the most vulnerable.
Benefits:           The main benefits of the credit would be to achieve further progress toward
sustained stabilization and growth. The balance of payments and budgetary
support would finance imports critical to economic activity and ease fiscal
adjustment as public finance are gradually strengthened. The proposed credit
would also strengthen the current economic recovery by deepening reforms in
the energy and financial sectors, fostering further transfer of ownership rights to
the private sector and the emergence of capital markets. Finally the credit would
help prevent a deterioration of the stock of human capital, ensure access to basic
services, and improve social protection to the poor and the elderly.
Risks:              The risk of significant policy reversals is small, as the recent economic
developments - in particular the rapid turnaround in inflation and growth - have
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



strengthened the consensus for market-oriented reforms. There is a risk,
however, that interest groups favoring tax loopholes and return to protectionnist
policies exert increasing pressure as the economic situation improves. This could
derail some reform initiatives. This risk will be countered by supporting a rapid
move on reforms, as well as progress on accession to WTO.
The main risks are that expected outcomes of given policies do not materialize -
jeopardizing the realization of Georgia's growth potential. In this regard, the
biggest risk is a deterioration of the fiscal situation, due to the inability to
increase tax revenues at the expected speed. This could result in basic
expenditure needs not being met, in particular for wages and pensions, and could
lead to social discontent. Alternatively, it could result in renewed inflationary
finance. Other potential risks would be an export growth rate slower than
expected which would lead to a lower growth path, imposing additional social
costs to the population. A similar impact could result from insufficient balance
of payments support from the international community. To reduce these risks,
the Bank will continue to provide support to strengthen public finance, and assist
Georgia in mobilizing external resources through the Consultative Group
process and other donor coordination efforts.



Table of Contents
Part 1. Recent Developments and Economic Prospects ...........................................................1
A. Background ............................................................I
B. Policy Achievements Thus Far ...........................................................2
C. Remaining Constraints and Challenges Ahead ...........................................................5
D. Economic Prospects ...........................................................5
Part II. The Government's Reform Program ...........................................................7
A.  Strengthening Public Finance while Maintaining a Prudent Monetary Policy ...............................................7
(i)   Maintaining a Prudent Monetary Policy ............................................................7
(ii) Improving Revenue Performance ...........................................................7
(iii) Improving Efficiency of  Public Spending ............................................................9
B.   Developing the Private Sector ...........................................................                                                                  10
(i) Accelerating Privatization ...........................................................                                                                  10
(ii) Fostering Enterprise Governance                                        ..1........................................................ 1
(iii) Developing Capital Markets ..........................................................                                                                 12
(iv)  Deepening Reforrns in the  Energy  Sector ...........................................................                                                 13
(v) Restructuring the Banking Sector ..........................................................                                                             15
C. Alleviating Poverty ........................................................... .                                                                            16
(i)    Strengthening  Social Assistance and Social Insurance ...........................................................                                    16
(ii) Deepening Reforms of the Health Sector ..........................................................                                                      18
(iii) Reforming the Education Sector .......................................                        .................... 19
II.  The Proposed  Credit .......................................................... .                                                                              20
A. Program Implementation and Credit Conditions ..........................................................                                                      20
B. The Proposed Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ..........................................................     23
C. Project Implementation ..........................................................                                                                            23
D. Benefits and Risks ...........................................................                                                                               25
IV. Bank Operations ..........................................................                                                                                      25
V. Collaboration with Other Donors ..........................................................                                                                       27
VI. Recommendation of the President ...........................................................                                                                     27
Annexes:
Annex 1                   Main Economic Indicators
Annex 2                   Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3                   Policy Matrix
Annex 4                   Schedule A
Annex 5                   Schedule D
Annex 6                   Country-At-A-Glance






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
GEORGIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit to
Georgia for SDR 44.2 million (the equivalent of US$60 million) to provide support for the Government's
economic reform program. The credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years
including a grace period of 10 years. The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) has
been prepared in parallel to a second annual arrangement under an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) (SDR 55.5 million) approved by the IMF Board of Directors on March 21, 1997. The
second Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for Georgia was distributed to the Executive Board on February
28, 1997.
2.    Financing for technical assistance to support a number of measures in the Government's reform
program will be provided by the Bank's on-going Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
(SATAC) and by the proposed Second Structural Adjustmnent Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC II).
3.    Georgia became a member of IBRD in August 1992, MIGA in December 1992, and became
eligible for IDA terms in August 1993. The country joined IFC in June 1995.
PART I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND ECONOMIC PROSPECTS
A. Background
4.    A Painful Transition: Civil Conflicts and Economic Collapse. Georgia is a country of 5.4
million people bounded by the Black Sea, Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey. At independence in
April 1991, it appeared to be among the best placed of the former Soviet states to make a successful
transition. It had a highly educated labor force, a long tradition of entrepreneurship, a significant
underground economy, a prosperous agricultural sector and substantial natural resources. And its
location made it a primary transit corridor in the Caucasus.
5.    Despite these favorable conditions, Georgia's political and economic situation went into a
tailspin. In the early years following the breakup of the former Soviet Union (FSU) Georgia suffered
from intense civil conflicts, first in South Ossetia, then in Abkhazia and with the followers of former
President Gamshakurdia. President Shevardnadze, invited to return to Georgia in early 1992, and elected
Chairman of the State Council in October 1992, played a major role of mediation and reconciliation.
Toward the end of 1993 the intensity of armed conflicts abated. A cease-fire came into effect in
Abkhazia and an agreement involving Russia and the United Nations was signed to work out a peaceful
resolution of the conflict.
6.    Georgia emerged from these two years of civil conflicts and erosion of the Government's
authority with a collapsed economy. Output had fallen more sharply than in most other FSU countries
(70 percent between 1990 and 1994); tax revenues had collapsed to 2-3 percent of GDP and the resulting
huge deficits had led to hyperinflation and to a sharp depreciation of the domestic currency. In addition,
the external debt contracted since independence, mostly on commercial terms and with short maturities,
had grown to unsustainable levels (over 200 percent of exports).



-2-
7.    The sharp economic contraction and the shrinking of public resources caused a substantial
increase in the incidence of poverty. Real wages fell by 90 percent between 1990 and 1994;
unemployment rose to about 20 percent in urban areas; public expenditures on health and education
collapsed to less than 2 percent of GDP in 1994; and spending on pensions and other social benefits fell
to I percent of GDP. Most families had to increasingly rely on informal sector activities, sales of
personal effects and assets, help from relatives and friends, or remittances from abroad to cover their
basic expenditures. In addition, rationing of electricity, lack of heating in the winter, and cuts in public
transportation imposed considerable hardship on the population.
8.    A Remarkable Turnaround. In early 1994, having made progress toward greater political
stability, the Government turned its attention toward rebuilding the Georgian economy and by the end of
the summer, embarked on a stabilization and structural reform program with support of both the IMF and
the Bank.I Since then, implementation has been sustained and achievements have been impressive. The
monthly inflation rate has been brought down from hyperinflation levels to about 0.5 percent. The
exchange rate has remained stable since the end of 1994 and a new currency was successfully
introduced in September 1995. Gross official reserves have been rebuilt after having been virtually
exhausted in 1994. The current account deficit has narrowed to 4.6 percent of GDP. Most of the bilateral
debt has been rescheduled. And after four years of continuous decline, growth resumed with real GDP
growing by 2.4 percent in 1995 and 10.5 percent in 1996 - a turnaround unique among transition
economies.
9.     Consensus for Economic Reforms. This economic turnaround was made possible by a strong
commitment to reforms and a growing capacity to implement them. This capacity has been strengthened
by recent political events. In July 1995, Parliament approved a new Constitution which establishes a
strong executive presidency. Presidential and parliamentary elections held on November 5, 1995,
affirmed the Government's pro-reform platform. Eduard Shevardnadze was elected president with 75
percent of the vote and his party won the majority of seats in Parliament. Since the new Govermuent
took office, policy issues are debated widely, including with the opposition.
B. Policy Achievements Thus Far
10.   The stabilization and structural reform program under implementation since September 1994
was ambitious. The stabilization program relied on a drastic fiscal adjustment and tight monetary
policies. The fiscal deficit was reduced from 26.2 percent of GDP in 1993 to 16.5 percent in 1994,
mostly through reduced expenditures. The elimination of costly subsidies for bread, gas and electricity
and a substantial downsizing of the budgetary sector brought down budgetary expenditures from 35.9
percent to 24.3 percent of GDP. In 1995 and 1996 the deficit was further reduced from 5.3 to 4.3
percent of GDP. This more recent reduction results from improving revenue performance while
expenditures increased slightly relative to GDP (from 12.3 to 13.7 percent).
The Program was supported by a first purchase of SDR 27.8 million under the IMF's Systemic Transformation
(STF) in December 1994, a World Bank Rehabilitation Credit (SDR 51 million) in March 1995, a second
purchase under the STF (SDR 27.8 million), a standby arrangement (SBA) in June 1995 canceled and replaced
in February 1996 by a three-year ESAF arrangement (SDR 166.5 million or 150 percent of Quota), and a
World Bank Structural Adjustment Credit (SDR 41.3 million) in April 1996.



-3-
11.   These measures brought inflation down rapidly. By early 1995 the monthly rate of inflation had
fallen from hyperinflation levels to an average of 3 percent and the exchange rate had stabilized. This
laid the groundwork for the introduction of a new currency - the lari - in September 1995. Within one
month the population converted about US$50 million of foreign currency leading to a fourfold increase
in the domestic currency in circulation and growth in the international reserves of the National Bank of
Georgia (NBG). The lari rapidly supplanted the ruble as a medium of exchange and unit of account.
Gradual remonetization of the economy in domestic currency continued over 1996 and early 1997. The
end-period annual inflation rate fell to 14 percent in 1996 and the average monthly inflation rate for the
first five months of 1997 has been about 0.5 percent.
12.   Over the period, although activity in the interbank credit auction has increased,-the main
instrument of monetary policy has been the NBG's sales and purchases of foreign exchange in the Tbilisi
Interbank Currency Exchange (TICEX). NBG's interventions have aimed at sterilizing the liquidity
impact of its lending to the Government, while maintaining an adequate level of reserves. As to the
exchange rate policy the NBG has adhered to a managed float, intervening in the foreign exchange
market to resist a depreciation of the lari to the extent allowed by the reserves target. The official
exchange rate, determined in the TICEX, has remained broadly stable (in the range of 1.26-1.30) since
the introduction of the lari.
Structural Reforms
13.   In the two years following independence - and despite the civil conflicts - Georgia had already
introduced important structural reforms (liberalization of most prices, adoption of a unified exchange
rate and an open import policy, some privatization of housing and an incipient land reform). Further
progress was achieved within the framework of the reform program implemented since September 1994
and supported by the World Bank's Rehabilitation and First Structural Adjustment Credits. The areas in
which most significant progress has been achieved include price and trade liberalization, small-scale
privatization, development of a legal framework for private sector development, banking and energy
sector reforms, downsizing of the Government sector, and social policies.
14.   Price Liberalization. In mid-1994, only prices of energy (gas, electricity), municipal and
communication services, public transport, and rationed bread remained regulated. Since then, those
prices - which used to be kept at extremely low levels - have been subject to a series of increases, with an
initial huge increase in September 1994 (13,000 times for gas for cooking, 1,500 times for rationed
bread). Further increases took place in 1996 and 1997 for bread, electricity, and urban transportation. In
mid-1996, the price of bread was fully liberalized.
2
15.    Trade Liberalization. While maintaining a relatively free import regime , the Government has
gradually eliminated export restrictions: an 8 percent export tax in December 1994, the state order
system in June 1995, most export prohibitions, licenses and quotas over 1995 and 1996, and at the end of
1996, the system of ex ante registration of export contracts which had been imposed on 5 types of goods.
In addition, in 1996 the Government enacted a foreign investment law which helps create an enabling
environment for foreign investment and the promotion of exports.
2   At independence, Georgia adopted a 2 percent uniform import duty. The uniform import tariff was raised to
12 percent in December 1994. In January 1997 a 5 percent tariff was introduced for selected capital goods,
raw materials and medical products while the 12 percent tariff was maintained for other goods.



-4-
16.   Privatization. Privatization of small-scale enterprises made rapid progress and is now virtually
complete. As of June 1997, 9,648 enterprises were privatized, up from 1,657 in October 1994, and
6,700 in February 1996. Transfer of ownership of medium-size and large enterprises started in mid- 1995
through various methods, mainly a buyout option to employers and employees, and a mass privatization
program offering at least 35 percent of shares through voucher auctions. As of June 1997, 522
enterprises (out of a total of 1,043 enterprises) were privatized. Another accomplishment has been the
break up of the State Bread Corporation (SBC), and the privatization of its units in 1996.
17.   Land reform, which started in 1992, made further progress with distribution of about 55 percent
of cultivated land to private farmers by mid- 1997. In 1996, three far-reaching laws (laws on private
ownership, titling and registration, and leasing) were adopted providing the legal basis for the
functioning of a land market in the agriculture sector.
18.   Legalframework for Private Sector Development. The Government has continued making
progress toward establishing a legal framework conducive to private activities. Following the adoption
in 1994 of a company law and simple procedures for the establishment of new business, a bankruptcy
law and a anti-monopoly law were adopted in 1996, in addition to a revised foreign investment code, a
commercial banking law, and laws on private ownership and leasing of land (see paras. 17 & 19). In
July 1997, a civil code was promulgated.
19.   Banking Sector. The initial focus was on establishing NBG's legal and regulatory oversight on
commercial banks (with the adoption of the NBG law and the Commercial Banking law), and on
strengthening its supervisory function. Since late 1995, the NBG has implemented a comprehensive
program to consolidate and restructure the sector. This program comprises a bank certification program,
privatization of the former state banks (FSBs), and special agreements with these large banks to induce
restructuring and restore their financial viability.
20.   Energy Sector. Although the Government had already introduced a series of tariff increases and
eliminated guarantees for energy imports, it is mostly since 1996 that significant steps have been taken to
advance energy sector reforms. These included measures to improve significantly the collection rates for
electricity payments (which had fallen to 6-10 percent in 1995) and the tariff structure. Other
achievements have been preparatory steps for the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework
aimed at promoting competition and private sector participation, the breakup of the domestic utility
company, and the corporatization of companies at both the generation and distribution levels in view of
their privatization.
21.   Downsizing Government. In 1996 the Government continued to reduce employment in the
budgetary sector, although at a slower rate than in 1995. About 13,000 positions were eliminated in the
education sector, bringing the overall reduction in employment to about 40 percent since mid-1994.
22.   Social Policies. Since the very start of the reform program, the Government undertook measures
to address social welfare issues: improving the targeting of social benefits while allowing a real increase
in their levels; increasing wages in the budgetary sector to improve efficiency and restore motivation;
and introducing reforms in the provision and financing of health and education services. Between mid-
1994 and early 1997, pensions and other benefits were increased 2.5 times in real terms, and salaries 6
times (on average). At the same time, all social benefits were consolidated into a single targeted social
assistance program, pensions were denied to working pensioners, special pensions supplements were
eliminated, the retirement age was raised by 5 years, and the financing of sickness benefits was partly
shifted to employers. In the health sector, a radical reform aimed at concentrating the scarce public



-5-
resources on a basic package of health services was introduced. And in the education sector, the
Government has started to allocate a larger share of public resources to basic education, promote private
schools at all levels of education, and foster participation of families in the financing of education.
C. Remaining Constraints and Challenges Ahead
23.   Despite notable progress and a pace of economic recovery that exceeds what was expected at the
start of the reform program, the economic situation remains fragile. The first fundamental factor that
makes progress precarious is the weak state ofpublic finance. The Government has already made huge
strides in fiscal adjustment through reduction of public expenditures and revenue increases; however
sustainability of the stabilization process is not yet ensured. Georgia still depends on external financing
to cover not only capital expenditures but also part of the Government's current expenditures. Two sets
of actions are required. First, the Government still needs to pursue vigorously its revenue-enhancing
measures. At the same time, it needs to continue downsizing the budgetary sector and improve further
the efficiency of public spending. Successful implementation of these two sets of actions is required to
stay on the current track and achieve further fiscal adjustment.
24.   Although an emerging private sector in the agriculture and service sectors has played a key role
in the economic recovery, productivity gains are still constrained by a state-owned sector still of
signi,ficant size, little enterprise restructuring, insufficient capacity to attract and intermediate private
savings, and bottlenecks in infrastructure which impair an efficient functioning of the private sector.
Thus, to strengthen the current economic recovery, the Government will need to accelerate and complete
privatization, free the assets of enterprises that fail to be sold, strengthen the financial sector and legal
framework, facilitate the development of capital markets, pursue its efforts toward financial
rehabilitation of the infrastructure sectors (in particular, the power sector), and adopt and maintain a
policy and regulatory framework that can attract private investment.
25.    The Government is aware that the success of its reform program largely depends on its capacity
to reduce substantially the incidence of poverty in Georgia. Currently, poverty remains widespread and
the social safety net minimal. While achieving growth will be the most effective way to reduce poverty,
this strategy needs to be complemented by well-targeted poverty reduction measures. The set of reforms
under implementation in health, education and social protection need to be strengthened as the state of
public finance improves, the economy restructures, and the poverty profile changes. The goal is not only
to provide better protection to those particularly hurt by the transition but also to reduce the risk of
emergence of structural poverty in the medium term.
D. Economic Prospects
26.    Further progress in implementation of the Government's reform program should strengthen
recent achievements and allow for sustained growth.
27.   Inflation and Output. With the continuation of prudent monetary policies, end-year inflation is
projected to decline further from 14 percent in 1996 to 12 percent in 1997 and 8 percent by the end of
1998. The strong economic recovery observed in 1995 and 1996 is expected to continue. Given the low
level of output and capacity utilization after the period of internal unrest, high rates can be expected in
the early years. Following the 10.5 percent growth rate recorded in 1996, output is projected to grow at
an average of 8 percent through 2000. In later years, a more modest growth path will prevail, sustained
by increasing savings and investment. Further progress in privatization, land reform, financial sector



-6-
development, and increasing trade with neighboring countries should contribute to continued rapid
growth of the agriculture, service and construction sectors. In the industrial sector, recovery is expected
to remain slower, following the pace of privatization and restructuring. In the medium-term, as
possibilities to utilize existing capacity are exhausted, growth will be driven by new investment in
response to emerging opportunities.
28.   In the early years of the transition, investment virtually collapsed. However, a gradual recovery
of savings and investment is expected to take place. Investment is projected to grow from 5 percent of
GDP in 1996 to about 19 percent in 2005. Key to the increase in public savings will be an improved tax
revenue performance. At the same time, reforms - notably in the financial sector and for the
development of capital markets - will lead to an improved economic environment and increasing public
confidence which will foster private savings and investment. There are already signs of growing foreign
interest in Georgia, in particular in agroprocessing, oil and gas sectors. Some foreign direct investment
linked to the rehabilitation of the pipeline for "Early Oil" has already started and is expected to provide
an upward pull for other activities. In the medium-term, there are prospects for substantial foreign direct
investment, especially if Georgia is chosen as a route for major oil exports.
29.   With the agriculture sector providing initial impetus, export growth which resumed strongly in
1996, would continue although at a slowing rate. Export growth will be fostered by the favorable
location of Georgia as a transit corridor, increasing regional integration and economic recovery in
neighboring countries, and infrastructure investments lowering the cost of transportation. The relative
importance of FSU markets is expected to decline gradually over time. Exports (in volume terms)
increased by 20 percent in 1996, and are expected to increase by 14 percent in 1997. Throughout the
period 1998-2000, an export growth of about 9-10 percent is projected. The infrastructure investments
which will be under implementation over the next few years to rehabilitate the transportation network
will contribute to growth in external trade and the development of the country's transit potential.
Political settlements of all regional conflicts (Abkhazia and Tskhinvali, former South Ossetia) would
further reduce constraints to trade. With imports growing at slower rates than exports, the current
account deficit is expected to decrease further from 4.6 percent in 1996 to about 1.5 percent by 2005.
30.   External Debt and Financing Requirements. Over the last two years, 95 percent of Georgia's
bilateral debt has been rescheduled on concessional terms, consistent with the country's ability to service
it. After independence, Georgia accumulated substantial external obligations amounting to US$1 billion
by the end of 1994, most of it on commercial terms and due by 1997. The bulk of the obligations to FSU
countries arose from non-payment for natural gas imports from Turkmenistan. In 1995 and 1996, unable
to meet its debt-service obligations, Georgia obtained a standstill on obligations falling due, and while
building up a reserve in a special account in the Netherlands Bank, requested its creditors to reschedule
on concessional terms. To date, agreements have been signed with nine creditors (Armenia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakstan, the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and
Uzbekistan) and negotiations with the two remaining creditors are evolving favorably. The agreement
with Turkmenistan, the largest creditor, was signed in March 1996, providing for a rescheduling of
US$394 million.
31.   In 1997, gross financing needs will amount to about US$430 million. These would be used to
finance a current account deficit of US$362 million, US$55 million of amortization payments on existing
debt, and US$13 million to build foreign exchange reserves equivalent to 2.5 months of imports. In
addition, the stock of arrears still to be settled at the beginning of 1997 amounted to about US$160
million. Given the debt rescheduling agreements signed in January 1997 with Austria and the Russian
Federation, and assuming that the remaining debt negotiations conclude favorably, current lending



-7-
programs of multilateral organizations (including the proposed credit) and other identified commitments
(including grants) would close the 1997 financing gap.
32.   For 1998-2005, average annual gross financing requirements are projected at about US$402
million, the amount needed to finance an average annual current account deficit of US$280 million; a
build-up of reserves of US$17 million, with the reserve cover increasing from 2.5 months of imports in
1997 to about 3.0 months from 2000 on; and US$105 million of amortization payments (reflecting the
rescheduling agreements). During these years, the bulk of external resources will have to come from
official sources, initially, in a large proportion on concessional terms. In the early years, a good
proportion of multilateral assistance would take the form of balance of payments support. Private foreign
financing, still modest currently, is expected to pick up in 1997 and 1998 with the rehabilitation of the oil
pipeline, and will play an increasing role in the medium-term.
33.   Georgia's debt burden remains high in the short and medium-term with a debt-to-export ratio
remaining above 200 percent until 2004 when it would start declining. However, as a result of the debt-
rescheduling agreements, debt service indicators remain moderate over the period with the debt service-
to-export ratio reaching a high of 22 percent in 2002 and declining thereafter to less than 19 percent by
2005. Given that most of the bilateral debt contracted in earlier years has been rescheduled with a 10-
year maturity, debt service indicators will improve significantly beyond 2005.
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
34.   The main objectives of the Government's economic program are to consolidate the stabilization
gains achieved through 1996 and to strengthen the current economic recovery. The program includes
measures aimed at: (i) strengthening public finance while maintaining a prudent monetary policy; (ii)
developing the private sector; and (iii) alleviating poverty.
A. Strengthening Public Finance while Maintaining a Prudent Monetary Policy
(,) Maintaining a Prudent Monetary Policy
35. The Government intends to reduce the inflation rate further to 10- 12 percent in 1997 and to 8-9
percent in 1998, and to maintain gross international reserves sufficient to cover 2.5 months of imports.
The NBG will pursue its efforts toward increasing the range of monetary instruments through continued
active participation in interbank credit auctions and a first issue of treasury bills during the second half of
1997. To lower the cost of credit, it will also consider a further cut in reserve requirement from 15 to 12
percent. As for the exchange rate policy, the NBG will continue to intervene in the foreign exchange
market, to the extent allowed by the reserves target, in order to resist a depreciation of the lari.
(ii) Improving Revenue Performance
36.   The Government is aware that, despite recent achievements, sustainability of the stabilization
process is not yet ensured. In 1996, the fiscal deficit was reduced to 4.3 percent of GDP, down from 16.5
percent in 1994, and revenues covered 63 percent of total current expenditures, up from 20 percent in
1994. Despite this remarkable progress, efforts are still needed to improve revenue performance. In 1997,
the Government intends to further reduce the deficit to 3.1 percent of GDP and to reach a revenue-to-
current expenditure ratio of over 80 percent. To reach these objectives, the Government is introducing a
number of policy changes and will continue to strengthen tax and customs administration.



-8-
37.   After broadening the tax base through removal of most tax exemptions in 1996, the Government
has, in January 1997, unified the corporate tax rate at 20 percent, and decreased excise tax rates and
social security contributions to reduce incentives for tax evasion. In addition, while maintaining its top
import tariff at 12 percent, it introduced a 5 percent customs duty on a few selected capital goods, raw
materials and medical products. To bring tax policies in line with standard practice in market
economies, Parliament adopted in June 1997, a new Tax Code - prepared with extensive assistance from
the IMF - and initiated discussions of a new Customs Code. The Customs code and a Customs Tariff
Law will be enacted by the end of 1997.
38.   Under-invoicing of imports is a problem frequently encountered by customs administrations and
reduces revenues. To address this problem, the Government introduced a system of minimum reference
prices for 20 product groups at the end of 1996. As products were highly heterogeneous and international
quoted prices unavailable or irrelevant for most of these goods, the system ended up leading to either
higher protection of domestic producers or tax evasion (with importers producing invoices at exactly the
minimum price level). The system also opened the way for pressures from interest groups to raise these
reference prices. The Government is now determined to gradually eliminate this system while
strengthening the capacity of the customs administration to handle under-invoicing. At the end of July,
the number of goods subject to these reference prices was reduced to 16 and minimum prices for
remaining products reduced to reflect more accurate market price estimates. By the end of February
1998, the system will be eliminated.
39.   For two groups of products (tobacco and alcohol) which are subject to endemic under-invoicing
and tax evasion, the Government plans to introduce specific rather than ad-valorem taxation as this
would simplify the collection of duties and strengthen the on-going program to combat fraud. The
specific tax will be equivalent to that calculated applying the ad valorem rates to average international
prices. In the particular case of cigarettes, a specific tax is already in place, but at a level not fully
reflecting the ad valorem rates. The Government is committed to adjust gradually the level of the tax. In
August, a first adjustment was introduced 3. By February 1998, the level of these specific taxes on
cigarettes and alcohol will be equivalent to the ad valorem taxes (import duty, VAT, excise).
40.   In addition to these specific policy measures, the Government will continue, with assistance from
the IMF and the World Bank, to strengthen tax administration. The large taxpayer unit will be expanded
to cover the largest 210-250 taxpayers; 30,000 new taxpayers will be identified through a comprehensive
survey; arrears will be reduced to 10 percent of actual tax revenues with no arrears older than 9 months
of the assessment date; the freezing or rescheduling of overdue tax obligations will be strictly limited
and bankruptcy proceedings initiated on tax payers with substantial overdue tax payments; the
restructuring and computerization of tax offices will continue; and salary complements for staff will be
based on collections.
41.   In the area of customs administration, reforms - introduced with technical assistance provided
under World Bank credits - will include: revised procedures for imports (declaration processing), transit
(national and international), and warehousing; development and implementation of a strategy to combat
fraud and improve revenue collection; and the computerization of customs declaration processing at the
airport and at the clearance terminal for the Tbilisi region. All these measures and programs will be fully
implemented by March 1998.
3   As a result of this increase, effective September 1, the specific tax was set at 0.10 lari for cigarettes of class I &
II, and at 0. 19 lari for class 111 & IV.



-9-
(iii) Improving Efficiency of Public Spending
42.   In the short and medium term, the Government's expenditure program will remain tight. In 1997
total expenditures are expected to be at about the same level than in 1996 (13.3 percent instead of 13.7
in 1996). This implies focusing on critical functions and thus, continuing downsizing the budgetary
sector and restructuring public spending to improve efficiency.
43.   Government Pay and Employment. The combination of overemployment and low pay in the
budgetary sector remains an issue in Georgia. Despite substantial efforts (real wages increased 6 times
since mid-1994), wages in the budgetary sector have only recovered half of their 1991 levels and are
significantly lower than in the private sector. However, fiscal constraints prevent increasing wages
without cutting employment. The Government thus intends to pursue its earlier labor retrenchment
policy. In 1997, about 15,000 budgetary positions will be eliminated. At the same time nominal wages
will be increased by over 35 percent. Overall, employment in the budgetary sector will have declined by
about 45 percent since the start of the reform program in 1994.
44.   Social Spending. The Govermnent is also determined to continue reallocating public resources
toward areas where public intervention is critical. One of these areas is the social safety net. The
economic crisis has increased the need for social protection while at the same time drastically reducing
public resources. The Government is thus attempting to channel increasing resources to the social safety
net as public finances gradually strengthen. In 1997, 23 percent of total government expenditures will be
allocated to social transfers (up from 18 percent in 1995). At the same time, the Government intends to
continue improving the targeting of benefits and the administrative efficiency of these programs in an
effort to reach the poor more effectively (see paras. 77-79).
45.   Another critical public function for the Government is to ensure that the sharp reduction in
public spending does not lead to a deterioration of the country's stock of human capital, jeopardizing
Georgia's growth prospects. To respond to that need, the Government is gradually increasing the share
of public expenditures allocated to health and education. In 1997 public expenditures on health and
education are expected to reach 18.6 percent of total public expenditures or 2.6 percent of GDP, up
from 1.1 percent of GDP in 1993. In the 1998 budget, the Government intends to continue this policy
and increase further the share of public expenditures allocated to social sectors. In addition, the
Government is committed not to incur arrears in social spending in 1997.
46.   The Government is aware that this policy will not lead - and should not lead - to restoring past
levels of public spending. The role of the state should remain limited to the provision of services which
have the highest social returns. It should also be to ensure that the poor have access to basic services. To
that end, the Government is implementing since 1995 reforms of the health and education sectors which
aim at increasing the participation of the private sector and at improving the efficiency of public
resources within each sector (see paras. 84-95).



-10-
B. Developing the Private Sector
(i) Accelerating Privatization
47.   During 1995 and 1996, the Government made significant progress on privatization. Small-scale
privatization advanced quickly and is now virtually complete with a total of 9,648 enterprises already
privatized. As for medium-size and large enterprises, privatization started in mid-1995. By October 1996,
just over 500 enterprises 4(out of a total of 1,043) were privatized through manager-employee buy-outs and
voucher auctions. Although numerous, these enterprises were generally small, with relatively low asset
values, and just accounted for 10 percent of total enterprise sector equity (see Table 1).
48.    Since October 1996, however, the method and pace of privatization has changed. Following the
voucher auctions, the Ministry of State Property Management (SPM) launched cash auctions to privatize
companies still under majority state ownership and residual shares. In an attempt to generate much needed
budget revenue, and considering that the population's incomes were rising sufficiently to command higher
prices, the Government decided to impose minimum prices which were 50 percent above book value and as
much as 20 times the best price obtainable at the voucher auctions. These prices proved to be a major
constraint on sales: only 3% of offered shares were sold, and just a handful of enterprises were privatized
over the last nine months.
Table 1: Status of Medium and Large-Scale Privatization (May 15, 1997)
No. of    Total Book       % of Total        % of Shares
Firms   Value of Equity    Book Value    Privatized in Each
(US$ million)     of Equity         Category
All Firms                1043            1,686       100%               12%
Privatized               522              161        10%               80%
Not Privatized           521            1,525       90%                3%
- Of which 10 largest5    10            1,236       73%                2%
49.   The Government now recognizes that this policy has practically stopped privatization and has
developed a new strategy which distinguishes between two groups of enterprises. The first group (Group A)
comprises the large enterprises which are less likely to have versatile assets as they are primarily engaged
in heavy industry (e.g., chemicals, metallurgy, mining). These enterprises - which also include those in the
energy sector- cannot operate without significant restructuring and new investment. Their size and
technology require privatization to strategic investors on a case-by-case basis, investment tenders, or some
other methods such as leasing. The second group (Group B) includes the smaller - and more numerous -
enterprises which are likely to have a larger proportion of assets which could be easily redeployed. For
these enterprises, rapid privatization through cash auctions is a priority. Group B consists of 413
enterprises while Group A comprises 103 enterprises.
4   This number exceeded the target (325 enterprises) established under the first Structural Adjustment Credit as
condition of disbursement of the second tranche.
These include the port of Poti, the Gas pipeline, and the electricity transmission line.



-11-
50.    For all enterprises of Group B, the Government has revised its pricing policy and decided to offer
these enterprises through cash auctions without minimum prices if initial attempts with minimum prices are
unsuccessful. In early August, 273 enterprises of this group - which had already been offered for sale -
were offered through a single cash auction with no minimum price imposed. Liquidation (or bankruptcy)
proceedings were initiated for unsold enterprises. The remainder of Group B (140 enterprises) will first be
offered with minimum prices; enterprises not sold will then be offered through successive auctions taling
place every two weeks with prices progressively reduced by 50 percent. It is expected that at least 109
enterprises of this second set of Group B enterprises will be sold (or liquidations initiated) by March 1998.
51.    As for enterprises of Group A (103 enterprises), a subgroup (about half of them) - which includes
primarily electricity distribution and generation companies - will be offered to strategic investors and their
privatization will require the establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework (see para. 66). For all
other enterprises the Government is determined to use various methods, including investment tenders, or
leases with buy-out option. By March 1998, the Government will have privatized enterprises accounting for
at least 25 percent of total book value6 of those enterprises not reserved for strategic investors. For
enterprises reserved for strategic investors, the contracting of privatization advisors will have been initiated
(see para. 67).
52.    Earlier privatization - which led to the transfer of at least 51 percent of shares to the private sector
- has left residual shares in the hands of the state. As table 1 shows, about 20 percent of shares of the 522
enterprises privatized to date remain unsold. The Government intends to sell these residual shares through
auctions or through the stock exchange via brokers/dealers. The stock exchange is expected to become
operational in 1998 with technical assistance provided by USAID.
53.    Through these different steps, it is expected that by mid-1998, over 900 out of the 1,043 medium-
size and large enterprises will have been privatized. If some of the proposed sales to strategic investors are
successful, this number could increase further.
(Ui) Fostering Enterprise Governance
54.   Improving enterprise governance is essential if privatization is to be beneficial. New owners -
whether in the majority or minority - cannot improve a firm unless they can exercise their ownership rights.
Defending the rights of outside shareholders, in particular, is important when existing managers are also
shareholders - which is the case in Georgia where privatization began through manager/employee buyouts.
The definition of shareholders' rights and managers' obligations is currently covered in the 1995 Law on
Entrepreneurship. This law, however, needs to be revised7, inter alia to: (i) permit free transfer of shares
without the veto power of managers; (ii) protect the rights of minority shareholders and other proprietors;
and (iii) refer to, but not embody, accounting directives to allow for a gradual adjustment to international
standards and improved information given to shareholders. The Government recognizes that these revisions
are necessary to improve governance and develop efficient securities markets. Amendments to the law will
be adopted by the end of 1997.
6   The book value has been calculated excluding the two largest enterprises, Chiatura and Rustavi Metallurgical,
which will be particularly difficult to privatize.
7   The amendments will be reviewed with the team of experts who helped to prepare the original draft.



-12-
55.    Creditors also play an important role in ensuring the efficient operation of an enterprise. Firms
require an orderly exit mechanism and the current Law on Bankruptcy (enacted in January 1997) defines
the rights of the various claimants. While generally adequate, the law assumes sound accounting.
However, the existing flawed accounting system and the definition of insolvency (liabilities greater than
assets) made it difficult for creditors to force enterprises into bankruptcy. In addition, references to the
bankruptcy of banks were inconsistent with the Commercial Banking Law. Thus, in June 1997, the law
was amended to remove inconsistencies with the Commercial Banking Law and allow creditors to trigger
the bankruptcy process if there is a default on a promised payment.
(iii) Developing Capital Markets
56,   Securities Regulation. Although still in its infancy, the securities market in Georgia is emerging.
With the transfer of ownership rights to the private sector, the forthcoming issuance of government bonds,
the emergence of private pension and insurance companies, there is an increasing need for a well-
functioning securities market. Trading and registration of shares and Government bonds, and investments
of private pension and insurance companies, among other activities, will require a plethora of ancillary
activities - better accounts promptly disclosed, trustworthy depositories and custodial functions, speedy and
reliable payments and settlements. These activities need to be regulated. To serve this function the
Government has set up a Securities and Stock Exchange Inspectorate within the Ministry of Finance and
decided to establish, in a second stage, an independent Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The
SEC will be established through a law submitted to Parliament by February 1998. This law will be a
comprehensive securities law and will govern both the institutional and regulatory aspects of securities (i.e.,
establishment and delineation of authority of the SEC; regulations on the licensing of market participants,
issuance, registration and trading of securities; and operation of a stock exchange). The SEC will be
adequately staffed and funded from the Government's budget until trading volumes increase sufficiently for
a small trading fee to cover the Commission's finances.
57.    Share Registration. To ensure enforcement of shareholder rights and well functioning capital
markets, the establishment of share registries is of paramount importance. The Government has decided to
require all joint stock companies to maintain a registry with a private, licensed registrar. (Technical
assistance for this activity is being funded under the World Bank SATAC.) By February 1998, the SEC
(or its predecessor, the inspectorate) will issue regulations covering licensing and operations of independent
and in-company registrars, and will license at least two independent registrars. However, before share
registries can become fully operational, the Government must clearly identify the shareholders in joint stock
companies which have been partially or fully privatized. Because share trading has taken place after
privatization, registries currently maintained by enterprises may not correspond to those held by the
Ministry for State Property Management (SPM). To address this problem and to ensure that the lists of
shareholders to be transferred to independent registrars are accurate, a Presidential decree has established
in August 1997, an inter-ministerial commission to verify lists of shareholders for all joint stock companies.
The Government is committed to proceed quickly in establishing these lists as these will be the sole legal
lists of shareholders which will be subsequently updated and maintained by the share registrars.
58.    Accounting Reform. Georgian enterprises continue to follow Soviet accounting practices. The
Law on Entrepreneurship embodies directives on accounting which are modified Soviet-era accounting and
do not reflect enterprises' true financial situation. Rather than attempt to specify detailed standards within
the law itself, the Law on Entrepreneurship will be amended to allow the SEC to establish accounting
standards which broadly reflect international practice (see para. 54). This approach will give the
Government the flexibility it needs to allow standards appropriate for Georgian conditions to evolve over



-13-
time while avoiding periodic amendments of the law. At the same time, new accounting directives,
consistent with international standards, will be prepared by March 1998. (with technical assistance
provided by USAID.)
(iv) Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
59.    Over the last few years, the worsening financial position of energy enterprises and dilapidation of
physical assets has caused a sharp decline in energy supply. Total gross consumption of electricity fell
from 17.8 TWh in 1990 to 6.9 TWh in 1996. End-user demand fell even more because of increased losses.
The ensuing continued rationing of electricity has created considerable hardship to the population and is
hampering economic recovery and prospects for sustained growth.
60.    Massive investments are needed to rehabilitate the generation plants and the transmission and
distribution networks. Given the extreme scarcity of public funds and limited public borrowing capability,
the recovery of the power industry cannot be achieved and sustained without major involvement of the
private sector, both domestic and foreign. In addition to investments, the private sector would bring the
necessary managerial and commercial know-how, which are equally important for improving the efficiency
of the power industry and sustaining its development.
61.   The Government has recognized that major structural reforms are urgently needed to ensure the
recovery of the power industry, improve its productive and allocative efficiency, and attract the necessary
investments. In 1996, it initiated a series of reforms with support from the World Bank. First, Sakenergo,
the former integrated power utility, was broken into a number of independent joint stock companies, with
the objective to transform the industry from a vertically integrated public monopoly into a market-oriented
competitive system open to the private sector, and regulated by an independent regulatory commission. This
was accompanied by a Presidential decree which outlines the Government's privatization strategy for the
sector. Second, an Electricity law, which embodies the main elements of the reform, was submitted to
Parliament, and interim Commissioners for the Electricity Regulatory Commission appointed. Third,
payment collections significantly improved, in spite of increased tariffs. Fourth, payment arrears were
rescheduled as part of a power sector financial rehabilitation plan. In addition, a number of investments
projects aimed at rehabilitating physical infrastructure were initiated, with support of various international
multilateral and bilateral organizations (including IDA).
62.   Despite these achievements, much remains to be accomplished to strengthen the financial position
of the industry; fully establish the legal and regulatory framework, refine the structure of the electricity
market introduced by the Electricity Law; and effectively privatize the industry.
63.    Financial Strengthening. In 1996 the residential tariff was increased 8from 2.5 to 3.3 tetri per
kWh, and average annual collections of payments, from around 20% in 1995 to 56% in 1996. In spite of
this notable progress, electricity tariffs remain too low and payment discipline needs to improve
significantly. In addition, various categories of households benefit from discounts, so that the effective
average residential tariff is significantly lower than the nominal tariff. Thus the power industry continues to
provide implicit subsidies to its customers. To address this issue, at the end of July, 1997, the average
residential tariff was raised to 4.5 tetri per kWh, to equal industrial tariff, and discounts for households
s Electricity tariffs have been subject to periodic increases since September 1994 when the residential tariff was
increased 600 times, and the industrial tariff, 10 times.



-14-
and industry eliminated. At the same time, the Government increased wages in the budgetary sector, and
social benefits to compensate poor households and low-wage workers.
64.   Improving further collection of payments will not only strengthen the financial position of the
power industry, but also harden budget constraints in the economy, thus contributing to financial discipline
and overall economic restructuring. Collection rates for electricity payments, both at the wholesale and
retail sale levels, reached about 65 percent of supply (excluding the Abkhazia region and Tskhinvali), on
average, for the period January-June 1997. For the whole year of 1997 the average annual collection rate
is targeted to reach at least 70 percent and for 1998, 85 percent. The Government also intends to change
the management of distribution companies which have consistently failed to collect at least 40 percent of
their supply.
65.   Finally, implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan adopted in December 1996, will lead
to a repayment of arrears over the next several years. To enforce timely payments, the Government
initiated in July 1997, bankruptcy proceedings against industrial consumers who failed to honor their
obligations at the time of the first payment.
66.   Market Structure, Legal and Regulatory Framework. In June 1997, Parliament adopted an
Electricity Law which separates the policy, regulatory and ownership functions of the Government,
disengages the Government from business operations, establishes an independent electricity regulatory
commission, creates independent generation, transmission and distribution companies, opens the way to
competition in the production and distribution of electricity; and allows for private ownership of assets. At
the end of July, the Regulatory Commission was set up. By October, its Charter will be adopted, and its
1997 budget allocated. This will be followed by the appointment of permanent commissioners and the
issuance of temporary licenses to the sector enterprises. By the end of February 1998, the structure of the
electricity market will be further refined with: (i) the establishment of rules governing the relationships
between and among generators, dispatch, transmission and distribution entities, and electricity consumers;
(ii) the adoption of tariff methodology and tariff-setting procedures; and on this basis, of an
implementation program for revised tariffs; (iii) replacement of interim licenses by regular ones for sector
operating entities.
67.   Privatization of the Power Sector. To maximize investment prospects, transfer of technology and
know-how, the Government intends to privatize generation and distribution enterprises through sales of
majority shares to strategic investors in international tenders. Distribution companies would be sold first as
improvements in these companies through better payment collection would lead to a faster financial
consolidation of the power industry, and increase the value of generation companies. Currently the
distribution sector consists of 66 enterprises. Except for Telasi - the largest company which supplies Tbilisi
- and a few others, most of them are small and their viability questionable. To allow for economies of scale
and improve prospects for sales to strategic investors, the Government envisages to group them in suitable
privatization packages - after due consideration to economic and technical factors - and to give
opportunities for mergers to potential investors. To implement this strategy, the Government will, by the
end of February 1998, have grouped the distribution companies in suitable packages and appointed
privatization advisors. A similar strategy will be applied to the privatization of generation companies.
68.    Private Investment in the Oil Sector. Although Georgia's oil potential is not believed to be as
great as that of the Caspian states, it holds the promise of reducing significantly the country's energy deficit
as well as of attracting considerable foreign investment and generating substantial fiscal revenues. In this
sector, private activity is already picking up. There are currently two joint ventures operating in oil
production as well as several exploration agreements. However, private investment is still constrained by



-15-
the lack of adequate legislative framework on production-sharing arrangements. To give the necessary
impetus to investment, a law on gas and oil production-sharing has been drafted and will be enacted by
end-1997.
(v) Restructuring the Banking Sector
69.   Since 1995 the NBG has implemented, with the assistance of the World Bank and the IMF, a
comprehensive reform program aimed at fostering savings mobilization and efficient intermediation. The
NBG focused on establishing an adequate legal frarnework and strengthening its supervisory capacity. The
National Bank Law was enacted in June 1995, and the Commercial Banking Law in February 1996.
Prudential regulations were upgraded and the capacity of the Supervision Department for on-site and off-
site bank examination strengthened. Simultaneously, the NBG undertook to ensure that banks would
operate on a sound basis and accordingly, designed a restructuring strategy aimed to address, in particular,
the severe asset problems of the state banks.
70.   The first component of the restructuring strategy was a bank certification program. The NBG's
banking supervisors began examining each bank and certified only those meeting all of its prudential
financial criteria and proved itself to be well managed. The activities of the uncertified banks were
restricted and if no improvements were forthcoming, their licenses were revoked. By early 1997, 46 banks
were certified, including a few newly established banks. Non-certified banks have had their licenses
revoked and are being liquidated except for the large three FSBs.
71.   Privatization of the three former state banks (FSBs) was the second component of the restructuring
strategy. It aimed at creating incentives to improve operations in a cost-effective way and at reducing the
likelihood of a government bail-out in case of bank failure. To date the, state direct ownership has been
eliminated in two of the three banks (United Bank of Georgia, and Bank of Georgia). In Agrobank, the
state still holds about 30 percent of equity because buyers defaulted on payments and shares reverted to
the state.
72.   The third component of the strategy consisted in special agreements 9signed with the FSBs in April
1996 and revised periodically. These agreements were on a timetable with monthly or quarterly benchmarks
to monitor progress toward meeting prudential requirements and induce improvements. Until a bank was
certified, payment of dividends was restricted and its nominal stock of loans outstanding was limited to its
May 1996 level, thereby instituting a 100% marginal reserve requirement. The bank therefore had every
incentive to collect on loans, provision adequately, and seek additional private capital rather than seek
deposits or credit lines to make up the cash shortfalls. In addition, each of the three banks agreed on
specified penalties (which included the forced sale of branches) if the ratios agreed in the timetable were
violated.
73.   Imnplementation of this set of reforms has allowed the NBG to greatly strengthen its authority over
banks, not just under laws, but in fact. It has also laid the foundation for a healthier banking system. The
number of certified banks has been reduced to 46 (see para. 70). Although accounting used in banks is not
yet consistent with intemational accounting standards, loan loss provisions greatly improved over 1996.
Two of the three FSBs have substantially improved: they found additional capital, closed uneconomical
9   These agreements and their monitoring were part of the program supported by the first Structural Adjustment
Credit.



-16-
branches and sub-branches, and greatly increased their compliance with the NBG's prudential regulations.
These two banks may be certified in 1997 if current trends continue. The third bank (Agrobank), however,
showed no improvement (see para. 76). Overall, the restructuring strategy has resulted in a declining share
of the three FSBs in the country's total banking deposits. This share declined from about 70 percent in
early 1996 to about 35 percent in mid-1997. Non FSBs have doubled in size during the last year and a
half.
74.   Despite these achievements, banking intermediation remains very low with total banking assets
(250 mill. laris in April 1997) still representing only 4 percent of GDP. Banking assets are not growing at
the same pace as the economy and it may take time before the public gains confidence in banks, after
having lost its deposits in the pre-1995 bouts of inflation.
75.   The strategy for the coming years is to continue improving the soundness of the banking sector and
allow a possible entry of foreign banks - which could trigger public confidence. Considering the recent
improvements of two of the FSBs, the NBG replaced in July 1997, for these two banks, the special
agreements and timetables by limited restrictions, to be imposed until the banks can be certified.
Certification may occur in 1997.
76.   In the case of Agrobank - the smallest of the three FSBs - the lack of improvement led the NBG to
suspend the rights of shareholders and to institute in March 1997, a temporary administration who replaced
the management of the bank. The temporary administrators are not confident of the bank's prospects.
Deposits have been declining over the last year and, in case of significant withdrawals, Agrobank's
insufficient correspondent account balances at the NBG would preclude the payments. Many branches are
clearly not viable and loans collections, even if assiduously attempted, are unlikely to generate sufficient
cash. The temporary administrators have prepared a restructuring plan which involves closing of branches,
reduction of staff, and sales of assets. This plan was endorsed by the NBG in August 1998 and its
implementation started therafter. The Government expects that, by February 1998, Agrobank will either
be certified or its license revoked. Since certification will likely involve an infusion of equity from private
buyers, the Government intends to sell its remaining stake in the transaction.
C.    Alleviating Poverty
(i) Strengthening Social Assistance and Social Insurance
77.   Social Assistance. The sharp economic contraction experienced between 1991 and 1994 and the
curtailment of public resources have placed many Georgian families in economic jeopardy. To address the
serious problems faced by these families while taking into account the fiscal constraints, the Government
first eliminated a number of benefits, and then, in January 1997, replaced the child allowance program by
a back-up program of targeted assistance to vulnerable households. Three categories of households were
considered as vulnerable: pensioners living alone, pensioners with children under 18 years of age, and the
unemployed with children under 18 years of age. The amount of assistance per person declines with family
size. As of May 1997, 112,000 households (about 300,000 individuals, or 6 percent of the population)
were registered to claim the benefits.
78.   Overall, the program was generally successful in preventing access of the benefits to the non-poor
but may have denied access to some deserving poor households. Of particular concern are the working
poor, particularly those with children and large families. In addition, actual implementation of the program
has revealed that the procedures used for registration need to be simplified, and the offices engaged in the
work of registration strengthened.



-17-
79.   The Government is committed to further improve the targeting of the new program. Based on a
recent household data set, a Poverty Assessment for Georgia will soon be completed in collaboration with
the World Bank. On the basis of the findings of the Poverty Assessment, and after reviewing the
experience gained thus far, the Government intends to modify the targeted assistance program by mid-1998
so as to: (a) protect the neediest families (whether or not employed) and their children in particular; (b)
reduce the transaction costs to the poor by simplifying the administrative procedures for claiming the
benefits: (c) preserve the incentives to work; and (d) maintain the benefit levels and the overall spending at
a sustainable level over time.
80.    State Pensions. The state pension system in Georgia is still facing a number of problems.
Although pension benefits were increased 2.5 times in real terms between mid-1994 and early 1997,
pension benefits remain low, well below subsistence level: as of January 1997, pensions had only
recovered half of their 1991 level. The tax base is narrow, due to significant underreporting of income and
employment, and lack of enforcement of tax payments. The decline in contributors and under-reporting of
wages have been exacerbated by the move toward flat-rate benefits and the high social security contribution
rate. While the adoption of flat-rate benefits in September 1994 was unavoidable given the fiscal
constraints, in the medium and long term it serves as a powerful incentive to create employment in the
informal sector and to under-report wages of higher paid employees. Tax collection is therefore low and
insufficient to cover the pension payments. Administratively, the system is duplicative and cumbersome and
does not provide for adequate fiscal monitoring of the appropriateness of pension awards and the lawful
and most efficient use of resources.
81.   The Government is concerned that pension benefits be increased, payroll tax collections improve,
and that a pension reform program be initiated to correct perverse incentive effects and address
sustainability issues. It envisages to move gradually toward a multi-pillar pension system as public finance
strengthen and capital markets develop. The existing flat-rate system constitutes a first pillar on which the
new system can be progressively built. To that effect, the Government has, in August 1997, issued a
decree which: (i) authorizes the United Fund for Social Security (UFSS) to obtain regular reporting from
the Post office, banks, social welfare offices, and improves the capacity of the Fund to exercise financial
control and monitoring on other elements of the system; and (ii) establishes a working group of
representatives of various ministries and agencies to prepare an organizational review and reform strategy,
in collaboration with the World Bank. As part of this review, and within the framework of the overall tax
policy and tax administration program, the mechanisms to be used to improve collections and broaden the
tax base, as well as the appropriate ways of financing the pension system will be examined'0.
82.    By end-1997 interim measures to improve collections and broaden the tax base will be adopted and
implemented as part of the 1998 budgetary exercise. And by mid-1998, the Government will adopt and
start implementing an overall administrative reorganization of the pension award and payment system. In
addition, it will adopt a pension reform plan to be implemented thereafter. The plan will aim at
strengthening the financial position of the Fund and at restoring a link between contributions and benefits.
10  The issues to review include the reduction of the contribution rate to the public pensions system (still at 27
percent); the sources of financing for the first pillar (payroll tax or general revenues); the appropriate agency
in charge of tax collection ; and the participation (on a voluntary or compulsary basis) of self-employed and
farmers to the pension system.



-18-
It will include the preparatory steps needed to introduce at a later stage a second pillar to the pension
system.
83.   Non-State Pensions. To complement the public pension system the Government intends to
encourage and regulate the creation of voluntary private pension plans. To that effect, a draft law has
already been prepared and submitted to Parliament. This law will be discussed by Parliament in the Fall
session. By end-1997, the law will be enacted and by February 1998, implementing regulations will be
issued.
(*i) Deepening Reforms of the Health Sector
84.   Faced with rapidly deteriorating quality and coverage of health services and constrained by a
precarious budgetary situation, the Government embarked in 1995 on an ambitious health care reform
program with the assistance of the World Bank and other donors. The program aims to increase private
sector participation in the health sector and limit the state's role to key areas where there is a strong
rationale for public intervention, such as health promotion, immunization, establishment of a regulatory
framework, accreditation and licensing, research, and education. The public sector continues to ensure free
access to basic services by the most vulnerable groups.
85.   Implementation of the reform is now in its second year and Government's commitment remains
high. During the first year, health budget institutions were transformed into autonomous units, a basic
package of benefits entirely financed by the state was defined, fees were introduced for all other services,
and standards for licensing health facilities were prepared. In 1997, significant accomplishments include:
1) merging the State Health Fund into the State Medical Insurance Company (SMIC), approved by
Parliament in May 1997; 2) signing contracts between the SMIC and health care providers based on a new
payment system designed to control cost and limit the possibility of the SMIC accumulating arrears in
1997; 3) adoption by Parliament in April 1997 of a health insurance law covering compulsory and
voluntary insurance; 4) privatizing nearly 400 health institutions; 5) initiating accreditation and licensing of
health personnel, facilities, and teaching institutions; and 6) a significant increase in the health budget in
real terms in 1997.
86.   In spite of these significant achievements in the health sector, limited public financing, requires the
Government to improve the efficiency of its public spending while at the same time guaranteeing an
adequate social safety net for the poorest. In addition, excess capacity, and overemphasis of curative
services relative to preventive care perpetuates the system's inefficiencies.
87.   The Government recognizes that health care should remain a priority for public spending and
consequently has more than doubled the state health budget in 1997 in real terms, from 19.1 million laris in
1996 to 50 million laris in 1997. Despite the tightness of the fiscal program, the Government is committed
not to incur arrears on health sector spending in 1997 as this would severely jeopardize the progress made
in defining an explicit benefit package to be publicly financed and contracting with providers for those
services. In line with its stated goal of increasing public expenditures on health, the 1998 state budget to be
submitted to Parliament will include an allocation for health of at least 7.3 percent of total government
expenditures (see para. 45).
88.    Currently, financing of most of the services in the basic package is the responsibility of the State
Medical Insurance Company, however, a significant portion of the basic package (almost 30%) remains the
responsibility of municipalities. This not only limits the provision of an integrated package of serviqes, but
also reduces the Government's control on the efficiency and quality of these services. In 1996,



-19-
municipalities spent less than half of the amount on health that they were allocated. In order to increase the
efficiency of public spending and improve regional inequities, the Government has established regional
branches of the State Medical Insurance Company and will pursue its decentralization policy.
89.   In addition, to further increase the efficiency of public spending, the Government is committed to
strengthening primary health care and restructuring the hospital sector. The Government plans to adopt by
end-1997, a primary health care strategy emphasizing disease prevention and introduction of family
medicine. Concurrently, the Government will develop and adopt by end-1997 a hospital masterplan which
will determine which hospitals should be privatized, which should be liquidated, and which should remain
in the public sector as managerially independent identities. Privatization, closing, and reprofiling would
proceed once the plan was approved.
90.   Recognizing the need to develop an insurance system so that people will protect themselves against
the risk of high medical costs, the Government has introduced a comprehensive health insurance law
creating a compulsory insurance scheme with limited public financing and providing a legal framework for
the introduction of private, voluntary insurance. The regulatory framework for public health insurance was
adopted in August 1997, including the administrative and organization structure of the State Medical
Insurance Company. And the regulatory framework for private insurance will be adopted by November
1997.
91.   To improve the health status of the population, the Government plans to adopt a series of healthy
public policies including: i) limits on the advertising of tobacco, in order to reduce consumption of tobacco
which is the major contributor to the disease burden in Georgia; and ii) promotion of iodization of salt to
reduce high rates of goiter and other iodine deficiency diseases in Georgia.
(iii) Reforming the Education Sector
92.   At independence Georgia inherited a highly developed education system which provided free
services at all levels of education. Georgia had the highest proportion of university graduates within the
FSU. However, the economic contraction and the sharp decline in public resources translated into a rapid
deterioration in the quality of education and a drop in enrollments. In 1993, public spending in education
in real terms was less than 10 percent of its 1990 level. During the same period, enrollments in the public
education system fell by about 20 percent.
93.   Aware that these developments could undermine Georgia's prospects, the Government adopted a
reform strategy in November 1995, which aims at restoring levels of public spending that would ensure the
provision of, and access to, basic education services to the population. At the same time, it aims at
fostering an increasing participation of the private sector in the provision and financing of education
services.
94.   Implementation of this strategy has already translated into an increasing share of public
expenditures directed to education. Although still modest compared to international standards, public
spending on education is expected to reach 1.7 percent of GDP in 1997, up from 0.9 percent in 1993, and
the Government intends to pursue this policy over the next years (see para. 45). This increased resource
allocation has been accompanied by a series of measures aimed at improving quality. Salaries of teachers
have been increased more than 6 times in real terms since mid-1 994 to slow down the departure of the best
teachers from the education system and restore incentives. New curricula and textbooks are being
designed and new standards for student performance established. An updated information system is set up
at the central level to strengthen management. The Government also intends to re-certify the entire teaching



-20-
staff based on their level of competencies. To that effect, the Govemment issued in June 1997, a
regulation to start the implementation of the certification program. Following completion of the program,
all teaching staff will be reclassified and a new salary structure rewarding performance will be established.
95.   The participation of the private sector in the financing of education has already increased
significantly. About 300 private institutions have been created. In addition, the Government is reallocating
public resources away from kindergarten, upper secondary and higher education toward general education.
Food is no longer provided for free in kindergarten and fees have been introduced at the higher education
level and in the 10th grade in 1996-97. The Government has now issued a decree to introduce fees in the
11th grade in the school year 1997-98. In the following year, tuition will be introduced in the 12th grade.
In parallel, an Education Law was adopted by Parliament in June 1997 and provides the legal framework
underpinning the reforms under implementation.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Program Implementation and Credit Conditions
96.   The proposed SAC Il would support the implementation of the Government's program described
above. It would be a SDR 44.2 million operation (equivalent to US$60 million), divided into two tranches.
The detailed reform program, including timetables for the implementation of specific measures, is
described in the attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2). It complements the program supported
by the second year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) approved by the Executive Board of
the IMF on March 21, 1997.
97.   The following outlines the measures that were taken prior to Board presentation and are conditions
for the release of the first tranche, as well as the conditions for the release of the second tranche.
7he following measures were taken prior to Board presentation:
Tax Policy and Tax Administration
*  Parliament initiated discussions of the new Customs Code (first reading completed).
*  The number of goods subject to minimum import prices was reduced and minimum prices for
remaining products revised to reflect more accurate price estimates.
*  Specific taxation (rather than ad-valorem) is used for imports of cigarettes. For cigarettes of class HI
and IV, the specific tax was set at the level equivalent to that calculated with the current ad valorem
rates and average international prices (0.19 lari per pack of 20). For cigarettes of class I & II, the rate
was set at 0.10 Ilari per pack, effective September 1, 1997.
Privatization, Enterprise Governance, and Capital Markets
* 273 medium and large enterprises (in addition to the 522 enterprises already privatized by March
1997) were privatized (or liquidations initiated) .



-21-
*  The Bankruptcy Law was amended in June 1997 to remove inconsistencies with other laws and
clarify/correct definition and coverage.
*  A Presidential decree issued in August 1997, established an interministerial commission to compile and
verify lists of shareholders for all joint stock companies. These will be the legal lists which,
subsequently, will be updated and maintained by the share registrars.
Power Sector Reform
* The residential electricity tariff was raised to the level of the industrial tariff and exemptions or
discounts for households and industry were eliminated.
*  Collection rates for electricity payments reached 65 percent of supply, on average, for the period
January-June 1997.
*  An Electricity Law, acceptable to IDA, was adopted by Parliament in final reading in June 1997 and
the Electricity Regulatory Commission set up according to the law.
*  For distribution companies that consistently failed to collect at least 40 percent of their billings, the
Inter-Ministerial Energy Commission requested a change of management to the municipalities.
*  The Financial Rehabilitation Plan was implemented and bankruptcy proceedings initiated against
industrial consumers who failed to honor their obligations at the time of the first payment.
Banking Sector
*  The NBG replaced, for two of the three former state banks, the special agreements and timetables by
limited restrictions, acceptable to the Bank. These restrictions will continue to apply until each bank is
certified.
-  The timetable agreed between the NBG and Agrobank was modified and made consistent with
Agrobank's temporary administrators' plan, in agreement with IDA. The schedule of implementation
of the restructuring plan was adopted.
Pension System
* A Presidential decree was issued to: (i) enable the United Fund to exercise financial control and
monitoring of the whole pension award and payment system; and (ii) establish an inter-agency working
group to prepare an organizational review and reform strategy.
Health
* Regulations for the public health insurance system, necessary to implement the recently adopted health
insurance law, were issued.
* Expenditure arrears have been reduced in the health sector.
Education
* A decree was issued to extend the tuition scheme from grade 10 to grade 11 at the upper secondary
level.



-22-
* A regulation was issued to allow initiation of the certification program for teachers and other education
staff.
The proposed specific conditions for second tranche release are:
*  Enact the Customs Code and Customs Tariff Law, acceptable to IDA; implement satisfactorily the tax
and customs administration program; eliminate the system of minimum reference prices for imports;
and set specific taxes on tobacco and alcohol at a level equivalent to the ad valorem rates in effect at
that time.
*  Comply satisfactorily with collection targets for electricity payments, as agreed with IDA (see para.
64).
*  Establish rules governing relationships between electricity market participants; adopt tariff
methodology and tariff setting procedures, acceptable to IDA, and on this basis, an implementation
schedule for revised tariffs; issue licenses to the electricity enterprises; adopt a strategy, acceptable to
IDA, for grouping and privatization of power sector companies; and appoint privatization advisors.
*  Submit to Parliament a Securities Law, acceptable to IDA. Issue regulations for licensing and
operations of in-company and of independent share registrars.
*  Amend the law on Entrepreneurs, acceptable to IDA, to: (i) enable efficient share trading: (ii) improve
corporate governance; (iii) protect minority shareholder rights: (iv) allow changes in accounting
standards to be adopted through regulations.
*  Privatize (or initiate liquidation of) the remaining 109 enterprises of group B. And privatize at least 25
percent of book value of equity of medium- and large-scale enterprises of group A (with exception for
energy sector enterprises, ports, and a few additional enterprises, as agreed with IDA).
*  Certify Agrobank or revoke its license. If certified, privatize the remaining state shareholding in
Agrobank.
*  Increase the share of total public expenditures allocated to health and education in the 1998 budget.
*  Adopt and initiate implementation of a hospital masterplan determining which hospitals should be
privatized, which should be closed, and which should remain in the public sector.
*  Enact a private pension law, acceptable to IDA, and issue implementing regulations.
*  Satisfactory Implementation of the Government's policy program as described in the Letter of
Development Policy.



-23-
B. The Proposed Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
98.   The CAS to be presented to the Board in October 1997, shortly after the proposed credit, proposes
an assistance strategy aimed at ensuring the sustainability of the stabilization recently achieved, at
strengthening the current economic recovery while protecting the environment, and at reducing poverty.
99.   The CAS proposes a high-case program which rests on continued pursuit of prudent monetary
policies, further fiscal adjustment and strong implementation of structural reforns. This program amounts
to about US$295 million and assumes that toward the end of the second year, conditions will be met to
introduce gradually, modest amounts of IBRD funds leading to a soft blend of about 70 percent IDA and
30 percent IBRD. The FY98-00 lending program includes one adjustment operation every year with
related technical assistance credits: it also includes every year investment projects in social sectors and
infrastructure-related, as well as two projects directly aimed at private sector development. A medium-
case scenario is also envisaged. It would arise mostly from worse outcomes in terms of government
performance, exports and GDP growth. Progress in terms of structural reforms would remain broadly
similar. In such case, the lending program would amount to about US$212 million. As the worse
economic outcomes would affect negatively creditworthiness indicators, the program would not include
IBRD lending. The recent policy performance and the pace of economic recovery justify operating
currently under the high/base case scenario.
100.  The proposed second SAC fits into the country assistance strategy and in particular, the high/case
scenario by continuing to assist the Government to sustain stabilization. By providing balance of payments
and budgetary support, the project supports the Government in its efforts to increase revenues and improve
efficiency in expenditure management and allocation. At the same time, SACII supports policies that
promote private sector development and growth through a set of enabling factors, including transfer of
ownership to the private sector, restructuring of the banking sector, development of capital markets.
Finally the project assists the Government in strengthening the social safety net and improving the quality
and access to basic social services. Overall, SACII would build on accomplishments of previous
adjustment operations (the rehabilitation credit and the first Structural Adjustment Credit) to achieve
further progress in establishing the policy framework needed for the success and sustainability of the
reform process.
101.  The impact of SAC II will be reinforced by ongoing Bank investment operations, as well as by
several operations under preparation. Accelerating privatization, maintaining an open trade policy,
restructuring the banking sector, developing capital markets, and securing property rights are all important
to the success of Agriculture I (on-going) & Agriculture HI (FY00) projects, of the Transport (FY98)
and of the Private Sector Development (FY99) projects. The Judicial Reform (FY99) project will
complement these efforts. Improved financial discipline and establishment of an appropriate regulatory
framework in the power sector are a prerequisite to the success of the Power Sector projects (FY97 &
FYOO). Putting in place an appropriate policy framework for comprehensive reform of the health and
education sectors are key for implementing the HealthII (FY99) and Education (FY00) projects.
Strengthening public finance at the central level will also complement the reforms at the local levels
supported by the Municipal Development and Decentralization project (FY97).
C. Project Implementation
102.  Credit amount and borrower. The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) of
SDR 44.2 million (equivalent of US$[601 million) would be made to Georgia represented by the Ministry
of Finance. Disbursements under the proposed SAC II will be to an account of the Ministry of Finance



-24-
(MOF) at the NBG specially set up for this purpose. The NBG will withdraw the foreign exchange as and
when needed to meet the market demand from both the public and private sectors and will reimburse the
MOF with the equivalent local currency at the official exchange rate of the day. The official exchange rate
to be applied will be determined by the inter-bank foreign currency auction market. The Government will
thereby receive non-inflationary budget support.
103.  The proposed SAC will be released in two tranches: the first on effectiveness and the second on
fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions outlined above, if general progress on implementation
of the LDP (including attainment of its macroeconomic stability objectives) is also satisfactory. The first
tranche will be for SDR 29.5 million (equivalent to US$40 million) and the second for the remaining
amount (equivalent to US$20 million). The larger amount allocated to the first tranche is justified by the
need to support in 1997, a public expenditure program which is tight and to a large extent, focused on
social benefits and services which are critical to the population's well-being and the social sustainability of
the program. The credit would be on standard IDA terms, including a 35 year maturity and a 10 year grace
period. A technical assistance credit in the amount of SDR 3.7 million (equivalent of US$5 million),
prepared in parallel to SAC II, would support implementation of the measures contained in the LDP.
104.  The Aide to the President for Economic Reforns will oversee, coordinate, and monitor
implementation of the policy reform program. He will be assisted by the ministries concerned, including
those of Finance, Economy, Energy, State Property Management, Labor and Social protection, health,
Education, and the NBG.
105.  Disbursements. The Borrower will open an account in the NBG. Upon notification by the
Association of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the credit will be deposited by the Association
in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the credit are
used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or
services in the standard negative list), the Association will require the Borrower to either (a) return that
amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the anount directly to the Association, in
which case the Association will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit.
106.  Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date. Although routine audit of the Deposit Account will not
be required, the Association reserves the right to require it. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
within six months of the release of the second tranche. It is therefore proposed that the closing date of the
credit be December 31, 1998.
107. Environmental Safety. The project will have no direct impact on the environment. For the
purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it has therefore been placed in Category C which does not require
an environmental assessment.
108.  Poverty Category. The proposed credit is poverty-focused since it will support improvements in
the targeting of social benefits to the poorest groups. In addition, the credit supports measures to improve
the quality of basic health and education services, and to ensure equitable access to those services,
especially by the poor.
D. Benefits and Risks
109.  Benefits. The main benefits of the credit would be to achieve further progress toward sustained
stabilization and growth. The balance of payments and budgetary support would finance imports critical to
economic activity and ease fiscal adjustment as public finance are gradually strengthened. The proposed



-25-
credit would also strengthen the current economic recovery by deepening reforms in the energy and
financial sectors, fostering further transfer of ownership rights to the private sector and the emergence of
capital markets. Finally the credit would help prevent a deterioration of the stock of human capital, ensure
access to basic services, and improve social protection to the poor and the elderly.
110.  Risks. The risk of significant policy reversals is small, as the recent economic developments - in
particular the rapid tumaround in inflation and growth - have strengthened the consensus for market-
oriented reforms. There is a risk, however, that interest groups favoring tax loopholes and return to
projectionist policies exert increasing pressure as the economic situation improves. This could derail some
reform initiatives. This risk will be countered by supporting a rapid move on reforms, as well as progress
on accession to WTO.
111.  The main risks are that expected outcomes of given policies do not materialize - jeopardizing the
realization of Georgia's growth potential. In this regard, the biggest risk is a deterioration of the fiscal
situation, due to the inability to increase tax revenues at the expected speed. This could result in basic
expenditure needs not been met, in particular for wages and pensions, and could lead to the emergence of a
social discontent that has so far been contained by policies aimed at reversing past negative trends.
Alternatively, it could result in renewed inflationary finance. Other potential risks would be an export
growth rate slower than expected which would lead to a lower growth path, imnposing additional social
costs to the population. A similar impact could result from insufficient balance of payments support from
the international community. To reduce these risks, the Bank will on the one hand, continue to provide
support to strengthen public finance, and on the other hand, will assist Georgia in mobilizing external
resources through the Consultative Group process and other donor coordination efforts.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
112.  The Bank's assistance program in Georgia has combined policy-based lending, with investment
operations, technical assistance, and Economic and Sector Work (ESW). Policy lending has provided
quick disbursing balance of payments funds in support of macroeconomic stabilization, price and trade
liberalization, and the initial phase of structural reform, notably privatization, financial sector reform,
restructuring of the government sector, and social safety net Quick disbursing credits have included the
US$75 million Rehabilitation Credit (approved in March 1995), and the follow-up US$60 million
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), approved in April 1996. The Bank's policy-based lending has been
supported by parallel provision of significant technical assistance, primarily through the US$10 million
Institution Building Credit (approved in July 1994), and through the US$4.8 million Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit, approved with the SAC in April 1996.
113.  Investment lending began in 1994 with the US$18 million Municipal Infrastructure Credit which
addresses the severe deterioration of municipal infrastructure in Tbilisi and other cities. Since then,
investment projects have been approved to support policy reforms and rehabilitation of critical elements of
the transport system (US$18 million), health sector (US$14 million) and power sector (US$52 million).
An Agriculture Development project in the amount of US$15 million was approved in March 1997 to
support the development of private sector farming and agro-processing. A US$21 million Municipal
Development and Decentralization project to assist the decentralization process, promote an improvement
of financial and administrative management, and support local investments was approved in July 1997. All
operations have been IDA credits and total commitments amounted to US$283.5 million, as of August, 30,
1997.



-26-
114.  Overall portfolio performance has been consistently good with all development objective and
implementation progress ratings at least satisfactory. Contributing factors have been the strong
Government's ownership of the program, the emphasis on capacity building, and relatively simple and
small first interventions. Disbursement performance has been broadly in line with appraisal estimates. The
Bank's relationship with the Government of Georgia has been excellent and is supported by an open and
constructive dialogue at all levels. Broad consultation of potential project beneficiaries and government
officials has led to a strong consensus about the composition of the World Bank program.
115. In addition to lending, the Bank has also assisted the Government's policy formulation process
through ESW, including: a Country Economic Memorandum and a Macroeconomic Update, a Transport
Sector Review, an Agriculture and Food Sector Review, a Public Expenditure Review, an informal Energy
Sector Review, and a Municipal Policy Note. A Poverty Assessment and a Judicial Assessment are
planned for FY98. Institutional Development Fund (IDF) and Global Environment Facility (GEF) grants
to prepare a National Environment Action Plan and a Biodiversity Strategy are under implementation.
116.  Georgia joined IFC in June 1995. Over the last year, IFC has worked closely with Georgian
partners and external sponsors to identify potential private sector projects. The first IFC direct investment
in a Glass and Mineral Water Company was approved by the Board in May 1997. Other possible
investment projects in the oil and gas sectors, in agrobusiness, and in the exploitation of natural resources
are currently under review. In addition, IFC has offered to assist in the development of capital markets by
supporting the introduction of leasing, seeking to encourage the entry of Western Banks, and mobilizing
investors for a potential regional venture capital fund.
V. COLLABORATION WITH OTBER DONORS
117.  Cooperation with the IMF has been very active since early 1994 and extensive consultation has
taken place in the preparation of the Rehabilitation credit and the first SAC, as well as for the proposed
SAC IL. A three-year ESAF was approved in February, 1996, and a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was
prepared jointly by the Bank and the IMF in this context. A second annual arrangement under the ESAF
has been approved by the IMF Board of Directors on March 21, 1997 and the second PFP was distributed
to the Executive Board on February 28, 1997.
118.  To mobilize and coordinate external assistance, the Bank has organized Consultative Group (CG)
meetings for Georgia. A first full CG meeting was convened in November, 1994 to mobilize balance of
payments financing to complement the IDA Rehabilitation Credit and the STF from the IMF. A second
CG meeting was held in May, 1996 to mobilize quick-disbursing funds and investment financing, and yet
another CG meeting is envisioned late 1997 or early 1998. The Government's capacity for donor
coordination is growing. The opening of the Bank Resident Mission in August 1996 has strengthened the
Bank's role in in-country aid coordination.
119.  Relations with bilateral and multilateral donors are excellent. The United States, Gernany, Japan,
Switzerland and EBRD are supporting jointly power sector reforns and a coordinated investment program.
The Bank, EBRD, the EU and the Government of Germany have worked closely on the banking sector.
The Bank is cooperating with USAID and UNICEF in its poverty alleviation and social sector strategies.



-27-
VI. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
120.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of IDA and I
reconmmend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Attahments
Washington, D.C.
August 11, 1997






Annex I
Page I of 3
Georgia: Main Economic Indicators
1994       1995       1996        1997       1998        1999       2000       2001        2002        2003       2004        2005
Real Growth Rate
GDP                                    -11.4%       2.4%       10.5%      10.0%       8.0%        8.0%       7.0%/o      7.0%       6.0%        6.0%       5.0%        5.0%
Private Consumption                                -10.4%      2.6%        6.2%       5.0%        2.8%       3.4%       3.7%        3.1%        3.0%       2.5%        2.4%
Inflation (average)                   15606.5%    162.7%       39.3%      12.0%       10.0%       6.2%       6.0%        6.0%       6.0%        6.0%       6.0%        6.0%
Inflation (end of period)              7144.0%     57.4%       13.9%      12.0%       8.0%        6.0%       6.0%        6.0%       6.0%        6.0%       6.0%        5.5%
Exports (GNFS)                                     -11.3%      20.2%      14.2%       11.3%       9.4%       8.9%        8.4%       8.1%        7.8%       7.6%        6.7%
Imports (GNFS)                                     -15.5%      9.1%       11.7%       9.9%        2.3%       6.1%        5.9%       5.5%        5.4%       5.0%        5.0%
1994       1995        1996       1997       1998        1999       2000        2001       2002        2003       2004        2005
As % GDP
Exports                                 38.0%      16.2%       11.8%      11.3%       11.1%      11.1%       11.3%      11.3%       11.5%      11.6%       11.8%      11.9%
Imports                                 71.7%      27.4%       18.4%      17.1%       16.4%      15.1%       14.6%      14.1%       13.6%      13.4%       13.1%      12.8%
Resource Balance                       -33.7%      -11.2%      -6.5%      -5.8%       -5.3%      -4.0%      -3.3%       -2.7%       -2.2%      -1.8%       -1.3%      -0.9%
Current Account (Incld Grants)         -22.3%      -7.6%       -4.6%      -2.7%       -4.9%      -3.8%      -3.4%       -3.0%      -2.5%       -2.2%      -1.8%       -1.5%
Current Account (Excld Grants)         -36.7%      -14.1%      -7.6%      -6.7%       -6.1%      -4.6%      -4.0%       -3.4%       -2.9%      -2.5%      -2.0%       -1.6%
Domestic Savings                        -32.1%      -7.2%      -1.5%       1.7%       4.3%        7.3%       9.5%       11.5%       13.5%      15.2%       16.5%      17.9%
Investment                               1.6%       4.0%       5.0%        7.5%       9.6%       11.3%       12.9%      14.2%       15.7%      17.0%       17.8%      18.9%
o/w: Public                            1.0%       1.1%        1.2%       1.3%        1.3%       1.8%       2.3%        2.8%        3.5%       3.8%       4.1%        4.2%
Government Revenue                      7.7%        7.1%       9.4%        10.3%      12.1%      14.5%       15.5%      16.3%       17.2%      17.6%       17.9%      18.3%
o/w: Tax Revenue                       3.7%       4.6%        7.2%       9.0%       10.7%       13.0%      13.9%       14.8%      15.8%       16.1%      16.4%       16.8%
Government Expenditure                  24.2%       12.3%      13.7%      13.3%       14.4%      16.7%       17.2%      18.1%       18.7%      19.0%       19.4%      19.6%
Fiscal Deficit (Incld Grants)          -16.5%       -5.3%      -4.3%       -3.1%      -2.2%      -2.2%       -1.8%      -1.8%       -1.5%      -1.4%       -1.4%      -1.3%
Fiscal Deficit (Excld Grants)           -20.0%      -7.2%      -5.5%       -3.6%      -2.8%      -2.6%       -2.1%      -2.0%       -1.6%      -1.5%       -1.5%      -1.3%



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
Georgia: Balance of Payments (millions of US doUsars)
1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000     2001     2002      2003     2004     2005
Merchandise Exports (FOB)             380.7    347.0    400.4    442.3    494.9    5S0.5    610.3    671.0    735.4    803.1    874.8    946.9
Nonfactor Services                     92.2    121.6    140.4    169.6    200.7    227.6    255.4    286.5    320.8    360.0    404.3    445.8
Exports of GNFS                        472.9    468.6    540.8    612.0    695.6    778.1    865.7    957.5   1056.3   1163.0   1279.1   1392.7
Merchandise Imports (FOB)              743.9    686.2    732.6    817.4    910.0    932.9    989.9   1051,5   1111.6   1186.2   1252.9   1322.1
NonfactorServices                      149.4    104.6    108.0    108.0    120.9    123.9    130.8    138.3    147.3    156.9    169.1    181.4
ImportsofGNFS                          893.3    790.8    840.6    925.4    1030.9   1056.9   1120.7   1189,9   1258.9   1343.1   1422.0   1503.6
olw: Energy                          277.5    184.9    183.6    206.8    223.7    236.2    250.1    264.9    278.8    293.6    306.7    320.3
Resource Balance                       -420.4   -322.2   -299.8   -313.4   -335.3   -278.7   -255.0   -232.4   -202.6   -180.1   -142.9   -110.8
Net Factor Income                      -36.8    -85.8    -50.4    -48.8    -46.4    -44.7    -50.9    -59.1    -65.6    -72.1    -77.4    -81.5
Factor Payments                       36.8     87.5     67.2     59.6      55.3     58.9     65.0      72.1     79.2     S6.5     92.6      97.6
o1w: Interest                       32.8     82.5      63.4     50.7     45.7     46.7      50.9     56.5     61.8     67.4      71.5     74.3
olw: Profit Remittances              4.0      5.0      3.8      9.0       9.6     12.2      14.1     15.6     17.4      19.2     21.1     23.3
Factor Receipts                        0.0      1.7      16.8     10.8      8.9      14.3     14.1     13.0      13.7     14A4     15.2      16.1
Current Official Grants                170.0    189.2    140.5    217.9    74.0       57.4     45.9     41.3      37.2     33.5     25.1      15.6
Current Account Balance (Incld Grants)    -277.8   -218.9   -209.7   -144.3   -307.7   -266.0   -260.0   -250.2   -231.0   -218.7   -195.2   -176.7
Current Account Balance (Excld Grants)   -447.8   -408.1   -350.2   -362.2   -381.7   -323.4   -305.9   -291.5   -268.2   -252.2   -220.3   .192.3
Foreign Investment                     8.0       6.0     20.0      65.0    105.0    93.0      85.0    100.0    115.0    130.0    145.0    160.0
Net Long-TermLoans                     -31.0   -169.3    15.9    109.9    154.7    213.9    223.7    182.7    163.7    153.6    128.3    90.0
Disbursements                         86.0    104.8    114.0    165.4    238.4    296.4    339.4    314.3    307.1    224.6    218.2    215.4
olw: GAP                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      50.2    137.5    189.8    193.1    179.4    89.2        73.2     67.3
Amnorization 1/                       117.0   274.1    98.1       55.5      83.7     82.5    115.7    131.6    143.5    71.0       90.0    125.4
Change in Arrears                      0.0      119.0   -352.0   -160.0    0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Rescheduling                           0.0      225.0    390.0    62.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Other Capital Flows                   292.3    78.3      54.8      -0.3     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0      -2.0     -1.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Change in Reserves (-=increase)        -42.5   -115.2    0.0       -13.3    -30.0    -16.0    -18.0    -13.0    -13.0    -15.0    -16.0    -18.0
IMF Credit                             40.5      75.0     81.0     81.0      80.0    -22.9    -28.7    -17.5    -33.7    -49.9    -62.1    -55.3
Memo:
GDP (mil US $)                       1245.8   2886.3   4580.8   5424.9   6275.9   6988.7   7691.7   8467.0   9222.9  10055.7  10849.5  11716.9
Average Exchange Rate (Lari/$)         1.1      1.3     1.25      1.30      1.3      1.4     1.42      1.46     1.51     1.55      1.60     1.65
Real Exchange Rate 21                  ..     100.0      68       64       61.2     60.9      61       61        61       60       60        60
Reserves in months of Imports         0.7      2.7       2.6      2.5      2.7       2.9      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
1/ Amortization due before rescheduling until 1998.
2/ Decrease =Appreciation



Annex I
Georgia: Debt Indicators                                                                        Page 3 of 3
1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000     2001      2002     2003     2005
Total DOD (US$M)                               985.0   1212.1   1365.0   1448.2   1682.9   1873.9   2068.9   2234.1   2364.1   2467.8   2568.7
Debt Service due after rescheduling (US$M) 1/   1.9      34.9     41.7     44.2    129.0    151.4    195.0    205.3    239.0    189.1    256.5
Total Debt/GDP                                 79.1%    42.0%    29.8%    26.7%    26.8%    26.8%    26.9%    26.4%    25.6%    24.5%    21.9%
Debt Service after rescheduling/ GDP 1/        0.2%      1.2%     0.9%     0.8%     2.1%      2.2%     2.5%     2.4%      2.6%     1.9%     2.2%
Debt Service afterrescheduling/Total Exports 1/  0.4%   7.4%      7.5%     7.1%     18.3%    19.1%    22.2%    21.2%    22.3%    16.1%    18.2%
DOD/Export                                    208.3%   257.7%   244.8%   232.5%   238.9%   236.5%   235.2%   230.2%   221.0%   209.6%   182.3%
IBRD Debt (US$M)                                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      3.9      21.1     43.5      71.1     97.1     127.0    176.6
IBRD Debt Service Due (US$M)                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.1      0.9       2.3      4.0       5.9      8.7      18.1
IBRD Debt/GDP                                  0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.1%      0.3%     0.6%     0.8%      1.1%     1.3%     1.5%
IBRD Debt/Total DOD                            0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.2%      1.1%     2.1%     3.2%      4.1%     5.1%     6.9%
IBRD Debt Service / GDP                        0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.1%     0.1%     0.2%
IBRD Debt Service / Total Exports              0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.1%     0.3%     0.4%      0.6%     0.7%      1.3%
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service           0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.1%      0.6%     1.2%     2.0%      2.5%     4.6%     7.1%
IDA Debt (US$M)                                 0.9      84.1    165.1    245.3    340.3    395.3    440.7    466.6    496.5    525.7    578.7
IDA Debt Service Due (US$M)                     0.0      0.2       0.6      1.0      1.5       1.8      2.1      2.3       2.4      2.6      5.5
IDA DebttGDP                                   0.1%     2.9%      3.6%     4.5%     5.4%      5.7%     5.7%     5.5%      5.4%     5.2%     4.9%
IDA Debt/Total DOD                             0.1%      6.9%     12.1%    16.9%    20.2%    21.1%    21.3%    20.9%    21.0%    21.3%    22.5%
IDA Debt Service/ GDP                          0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%
IDA Debt Service /Total Exports                0.0%      0.0%     0.1%     0.2%     0.2%      0.2%     0.2%     0.2%      0.2%     0.2%     0.4%
IDA Debt Service /Total Debt Service           0.1%      0.6%     1.5%     2.3%      1.1%     1.2%     1.1%      1.1%     1.0%     1.4%     2.1%
Preferred Creditors Debt (US$M)                 41.4    206.5    376.5    566.7    774.1    846.8    900.6    930.2    943.9    943.1    908.3
Preferred Creditors Debt Service Due (US$M)     0.9      2.8       6.3      8.5      12.4     37.2     46.3      38.4     57.7     77.2      92.4
Preferred Creditors Debt/GDP                   3.3%      7.2%     8.2%     10.4%    12.3%    12.1%    11.7%    11.0%    10.2%      9.4%     7.8%
Preferred Creditors Debt/Total DOD             4.2%     17.0%    27.6%    39.1%    46.0%    45.2%    43.5%    41.6%    39.9%    38.2%    35.4%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service/ GDP          0.1%      0.1%     0.1%     0.2%     0.2%      0.5%     0.6%     0.5%      0.6%     0.8%     0.8%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service / Total Exports  0.2%   0.6%     1.1%     1.4%      1.8%     4.7%     5.3%     4.0%      5.4%     6.6%     6.6%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service / Total Debt Service  47.7%  8.1%  15.2%    19.2%  9.6%     24.6%    23.7%    18.7%    24.1%    40.8%    36.0%
1/ Debt service figures correspond to debt service due after all the rescheduling arrangements are taken into account, and all other arrears
and non-EU debt service due in 95 and 96 are rescheduled at 10 year maturity, 5 year grace and 4 percent interest.
Debt service ratios before rescheduling would be 75.8 percent of total exports in 1995 and 29.0 percent in 1996. These correspond to 12.4 percent and 3.5 percent of GDP respectively.
Preferred Creditors include World Bank, IMF, and EBRD.
All the debt is public.






4
b6d66G)30;T l  30t03OR660
PRESIDENT OF GEORGIA
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
Washingtoll, 20433
August 8, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
The attached Letter of Development Policy outlines the program  of
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform of the Government of
Gyeorgia. We request the World Bank to support this program with a Second
Structural Adjustment Credit of US$.60,million.
The program of me:asures in dhe LeLWer is iuLcuded Lu a4iicvc thb rapid
resumption of economic growth within a sustainable macroeconomic
framework. If adjustments and corrective measures are required during the
course of the implementation of the program we will, where appropriate,
review those measures with the World Bank.
Yours sincerely,
.  Eduard Shevardnadze






Annex 2
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    Significant progress has been achieved under the stabilization and structural reform program
launched in mid- 1994. Inflation has continued to decline, the exchange rate has remained broadly stable,
the gross international reserve position of the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) has improved, and in
1995, growth resumed after four years of continuous decline. Implementation of structural reforms has
been sustained with most significant progress in price and trade liberalization, small-scale privatization,
bank restructuring, and development of a legal framework for private sector development.
2.    Despite these achievements and a rapid pace of economic recovery, the economic situation
remains fragile and the Government is committed to pursue and deepen the reform process. Its main
objectives are to consolidate the stabilization gains achieved through 1996 and to strengthen the current
economic recovery. To achieve these objectives, the Government has identified for the year ahead, a set
of key policies aimed at: (i) strengthening public finance while maintaining a prudent monetary policy;
(ii) developing the private sector; and (iii) alleviating poverty.
A. Strengthening Public Finance while Maintaining a Prudent Monetary Policy
(i) Maintaining a Prudent Monetary Policy
3.    The Government intends to reduce the inflation rate further to 12 percent in 1997 and to 10
percent in 1998, and to maintain gross international reserves sufficient to cover 2.5 months of imports.
The NBG will pursue its efforts toward increasing the range of monetary instruments through continued
active participation in interbank credit auctions and a first issue of treasury bills during the second half of
1997. To lower the cost of credit, it will also consider a further cut in reserve requirement from 15 to 12
percent. As for the exchange rate policy, the NBG will continue to intervene in the foreign exchange
market, to the extent allowed by the reserves target, in order to resist a depreciation of the lari.
(ii) Improving Revenue Performance
4.    The Government is aware that, despite recent achievements, further measures are needed to
ensure sustained stabilization. In 1996, the deficit was reduced to 4.3 percent of GDP, down from 16.5
percent in 1994, and revenues covered 63 percent of total current expenditures, up from 20 percent in
1994. Despite this remarkable progress, efforts are still needed to improve revenue performance. In 1997,
the Government intends to further reduce the deficit to 3.1 percent of GDP and to reach a revenue-to-
current expenditure ratio of over 80 percent. To reach these objectives, the Government is introducing a
number of policy changes and will continue to strengthen tax and customs administration.
5.    After broadening the tax base through removal of most tax exemptions in 1996, the Government
has, in January 1997, unified the corporate tax rate at 20 percent, and decreased excise tax rates and
social security contributions to reduce incentives to tax evasion. In addition, while maintaining its top
import tariff at 12 percent, it introduced a 5 percent customs duty on a few selected capital goods, raw
materials and medical products. To bring tax policies in line with standard practice in market
economies, Parliament adopted in June 1997, a new Tax Code and initiated discussions of a new
Customs Code. The Customs code and a Customs Tariff Law will be enacted by the end of 1997. In the



2 -
latter, the Government is committed to maintain its current, low and mostly uniform import tariff.
Georgia is also committed to join rapidly the World Trade Organization (WTO). During the accession
negotiations, the Government will aim to join all major agreements (including those concerning services,
intellectual property, investment measures, and government procurement). Georgia will make
commitments in WTO as a transition economy and will request transition periods before assuming some
obligations. Georgia will offer to bind its import tariff in WTO either at 25 percent for agricultural and
agro-processed goods and at 15 percent for all other goods.
6.     To address the problem of under-invoicing of imports, the Government introduced a system of
minimum reference prices for 20 product groups at the end of 1996. As products were highly
heterogeneous and international quoted prices unavailable or irrelevant for most of these goods, the
system ended up not meeting its objective of fighting tax evasion. The system also opened the way for
pressures from interest groups to raise these reference prices. The Government is now determined to
gradually eliminate this system while strengthening the capacity of the customs administration to handle
under-invoicing. At the end of July, 1997, the number of goods subject to these reference prices has been
reduced to 16 and minimum prices for beer and vodka have been reduced to reflect more accurate
market price estimates. And by the end of February 1998, the system will be eliminated.
7.     For two groups of products (tobacco and alcohol) which are subject to endemic under-invoicing
and tax evasion, the Government envisages to introduce specific taxation as this would simplify the
collection of duties and strengthen the on-going program to combat fraud. The specific tax would be
equivalent to that calculated applying the ad valorem rates to average international prices. In the
particular case of cigarettes, a specific tax is already in place, but at a level not fully reflecting the ad
valorem rates. The Government is committed to adjust gradually the level of the tax. In August, a first
adjustment has been introduced'. By the end of February 1998, the level of these specific taxes will be
equivalent to the ad valorem taxes (import duty, VAT, excise).
8.    In addition to these specific policy measures, the Government will continue, with assistance from
the IMF and the World Bank, to strengthen tax administration. The large taxpayer unit will be expanded
to cover the largest 210-250 taxpayers: 30,000 new taxpayers will be identified through a comprehensive
survey; tax arrears will be reduced to 10 percent of actual tax revenue with no arrears older than 9
months of the assessment date; the freezing or rescheduling of overdue tax obligations will be strictly
limited and bankruptcy proceedings initiated on tax payers with substantial tax arrears; the restructuring
and computerization of tax offices will continue; and salary complements for tax administration staff will
be based on collections.
9.    In the area of customs administration, reforms - introduced with technical assistance provided
under World Bank credits - will include: revised procedures for imports (declaration processing), transit
(national and international), and warehousing to be introduced by November 1997; development by
November 1997, and implementation thereafter of a strategy to improve customs enforcement and
revenue collection; and the computerization of customs declaration processing at the airport and at the
clearance terminal for the Tbilisi region. All the measures and programs will be fully implemented by
end-February 1998.
As a result of this increase, effective September 1, the specific tax will be at least equal to 0.10 lari for
cigarettes of class I & II, and to 0.19 lari for class III & IV.



- 3 -
(iii) Improving Efficiency of Public Spending
10.   In the short and medium term, the Government's expenditure program will remain tight. In 1997,
total expenditures are expected to be only slightly higher than in 1996 (14.2 percent instead of 13.7 in
1996). This implies continuing downsizing the budgetary sector and restructuring public spending to
improve efficiency.
11.   Government Pay and Employment. The combination of overemployment and low pay in the
budgetary sector remains an issue in Georgia. Despite substantial efforts (real wages increased 6 times
since mid-1994), wages in the budgetary sector are still significantly lower than in the private sector.
However, fiscal constraints prevent increasing wages without cutting employment. The Government
thus intends to pursue its labor retrenchment policy. In 1997, about 15,000 budgetary positions will be
eliminated. At the same time, nominal wages will be increased by over 35 percent. Overall, employment
in the budgetary sector will have declined by about 45 percent since the start of the reform program in
1994.
12.   Social Spending. The Government is also determined to continue reallocating public resources
toward areas where public intervention is critical. One of these areas is the social safety net. The
economic crisis has increased the need for social protection while at the same time drastically reducing
public resources. The Government is thus attempting to channel increasing resources to the social safety
net as public finance gradually strengthen. In 1997, 23 percent of total government expenditures will be
allocated to social transfers (up from 18 percent in 1995). At the same time, the Government intends to
continue improving the targeting of benefits and the administrative efficiency of these programs in an
effort to reach the poor more effectively.
13.   Another critical public function for the Government is to ensure that the sharp reduction in
public spending does not lead to a deterioration of the country's stock of human capital, jeopardizing
Georgia's growth prospects. To respond to that need, the Government is gradually increasing the share
of public expenditures allocated to health and education. In 1997 public expenditures on health and
education are expected to reach 18.6 percent of total public expenditures or 2.6 percent of GDP, up
from 1.2 percent of GDP in 1993. In 1998, the Government intends to continue this policy and increase
further the share of public expenditures allocated to social sectors. In addition, the Government is
committed not to incur arrears in social sector spending in 1997.
14.   The Government is aware that this policy will not lead - and should not lead - to restoring past
levels of public spending. The role of the state should remain limited to the provision of services which
have the highest social returns. It should also be to ensure that the poor have access to basic services. To
that end, the Government is implementing since 1995 reforms of the health and education sectors which
aim at increasing the participation of the private sector and at improving the efficiency of public
resources within each sector.
B. Developing the Private Sector
(i) Accelerating Privatization
15.   During 1995 and 1996, the Government made significant progress on privatization. Small-scale
privatization advanced quickly and is now virtually complete with a total of 9,648 enterprises privatized.
As for medium-size and large enterprises, privatization started in mid-1995. By October 1996, just over
500 enterprises out of a total of 1,043 were privatized through management employee buy-outs and



voucher auctions. Although numerous, these enterprises were generally small, with relatively low asset
values.
16.   Since October 1996, however, the method and pace of privatization has changed. Following the
voucher auctions, cash auctions were launched. In an attempt to generate much needed budget revenue,
and considering that the population's incomes were rising sufficiently to command higher prices, the
Government set minimum prices which proved to be a constraint on sales: only 3% of offered shares
were sold, and just a handful of enterprises were privatized over the last nine months.
17.   The Government, recognizing that privatization needed to be accelerated, now distinguishes
between two groups of enterprises to be privatized. The first group (Group A) of 103 larger enterprises
are subdivided into two subgroups Al and A2. The 53 enterprises in Group Al (book value $224m) are
primarily involved in electricity generation and distribution and their privatization is described later in
para. 33. Subgroup A2 consists of 50 enterprises mainly in heavy industry with a book value of $418m
and in this subgroup, the Government will privatize enterprises which account for at least 25% of this
group's book value (measured excluding Chiatura and Rustavi Metallurgical) by March 1998. To
facilitate this, the Government will, by September 1, 1997, remove restrictions on privatization of
industrial, trade, construction, mining and chemical and other enterprises in that group, and their
privatization will involve a variety of methods including investment tenders or leases with buy-out
options.
18.   The second group (Group B) comprises 413 smaller enterprises which are likely to have a larger
proportion of redeployable assets, and rapid privatization through cash auctions is a priority. The
Government has already offered 273 enterprises (Group B 1, with book value $99m) in one lot with no
minimum prices attached in early August 1997. Liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings will immediately
commence for any enterprise in this group which is unsold. The Government will also sell at least 109
enterprises with a book value of at least $60m by March 1998 from the remaining 140 enterprises (Group
B2, with a book value of $66m). Each of these enterprises will be offered with a minimum price; but this
minimum price will be reduced by at least 50% in the third attempt if the majority remains unsold. The
Government will, if necessary, reduce further or eliminate minimum prices and, if a majority still
remains unsold, liquidation and/or bankruptcy will commence.
19.   Although a majority stake in some 522 enterprises were privatized earlier, the Government still
owns a residual share (on average 20%) in many of them. The Government intends to sell these residual
shares.
(ii) Fostering Enterprise Governance
20.   Improving enterprise governance is essential if privatization is to be beneficial. New owners -
whether in the majority or minority - cannot improve a firm unless they can exercise their ownership
rights. The definition of shareholders' rights and managers' obligations is currently covered in the 1995
Law on Entrepreneurship. This law, however, needs to be revised, inter alia, to: (i) permit the free
transfer of shares without the veto power of managers; (ii) protect the rights of minority shareholders and
other proprietors; and (iii) refer to, but not embody, accounting directives to allow for a gradual
adjustment to international standards and improved information given to shareholders. The Government
recognizes that these revisions are necessary to improve governance and develop efficient securities
markets. Amendments to the law will be adopted by the end of 1997.



21.    Creditors also play an important role in ensuring the efficient operation of an enterprise. Firms
require an orderly exit mechanism and the current Law on Bankruptcy (enacted in January 1997) defines
the rights of the various claimants. While generally adequate, the law assumes sound accounting.
However, the existing flawed accounting system and the definition of insolvency (liabilities greater than
assets) made it difficult for creditors to force enterprises into bankruptcy. In addition, references to the
bankruptcy of banks were inconsistent with the Commercial Banking Law. Thus, in June 1997, the law
was amended to remove inconsistencies with the Commercial Banking Law and allow creditors to trigger
the process if there is a default on a promised payment.
(iii) Developing Capital Markets
22.   Securities Regulation. Although still in its infancy, the securities market in Georgia is
emerging. With the transfer of ownership rights to the private sector, the forthcoming issuance of
government bonds, the emergence of private pension and insurance companies, there is an increasing
need for a well-functioning securities market. Trading and registration of shares and Government bonds,
and investments of private pension and insurance companies, among other activities, will require a
plethora of ancillary activities - better accounts promptly disclosed, trustworthy depositories and
custodial functions, speedy and reliable payments and settlements. These activities need to be regulated.
To serve this function the Government has set up a Securities and Stock Exchange Inspectorate within
the Ministry of Finance and decided to establish, in a second stage, an independent Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC). By February 1998 a draft law on the SEC will be submitted to
Parliament. This law - a comprehensive law on securities - will govern both the institutional and
regulatory aspects of securities (i.e., establishment and delineation of authority of the SEC, regulations
on the licensing of market participants; issuance, registration and trading of securities; and operations of
a stock exchange). The SEC will be adequately staffed and funded from the Government's budget until
trading volumes increase sufficiently for a small trading fee to cover the Commission's finances.
23.    Share Registration. To ensure enforcement of shareholder rights and well functioning capital
markets, the establishment of share registries is of paramount importance. The Government has decided
to require all joint stock companies to maintain a registry with a private, licensed registrar. By March
1998, the inspectorate in the Ministry of Finance (or the SEC ) will issue regulations covering licensing
and operations of independent and in-company registrars, and will license at least two independent
registrars. However, before share registries can become fully operational, the Government must clearly
identify the shareholders in joint stock companies which have been partially or fully privatized. Because
share trading has taken place after privatization, registries currently maintained by enterprises may not
correspond to those held by the Ministry of State Property Management (SPM). To address this problem
and to ensure that the lists of shareholders to be transferred to independent registrars are accurate, a
Presidential decree -issued in August 1997 - established an inter-ministerial commission to verify the
lists of shareholders for all joint stock companies. These will be the sole legal lists of shareholders
which will be subsequently updated and maintained by the share registrars. The Government intends to
complete this task as rapidly as possible, and will carefully monitor progress jointly with the Bank.
24.   Accounting Reform. Georgian enterprises continue to follow Soviet accounting practices. The
Law on Entrepreneurship embodies directives on accounting which are modified Soviet-era accounting
and do not reflect enterprises' true financial situation. Rather than attempt to specify detailed standards
within the law itself, the Law on Entrepreneurship will be amended to allow the SEC to establish
accounting standards which broadly reflect international practice (see para. 20). This approach will give
the Government the flexibility it needs to allow standards appropriate for Georgian conditions to evolve



-6-
over time while avoiding periodic amendments of the law. At the same time, new accounting directives,
consistent with international standards, will be prepared by March 1998 (with technical assistance
provided by USAID.)
(iv) Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
25.    Over the last few years, the worsening financial position of energy enterprises and dilapidation
of physical assets has caused a sharp decline in energy supply. Total gross consumption of electricity fell
from 17.8 TWh in 1990 to 6.9 TWh in 1996. End-user demand fell even more because of increased
losses. The ensuing continued rationing of electricity has created considerable hardship to the population
and is hampering economic recovery and prospects for sustained growth.
26.    Massive investmnents are needed to rehabilitate the generation plants and the transmission and
distribution networks. Given the extreme scarcity of public funds and limited public borrowing
capability, the recovery of the power industry cannot be achieved and sustained without major
involvement of the private sector, both domestic and foreign. In addition to investments, the private
sector would bring the necessary managerial and commercial know-how, which are equally important for
improving the efficiency of the power industry and sustaining its development.
27.    The Government has recognized that major structural reforms are urgently needed to ensure the
recovery of the power industry, improve its productive and allocative efficiency, and attract the
necessary investments. In 1996, it initiated a series of reforms with support from the World Bank. First,
Sakenergo was divided into a number of independent joint stock companies. The objective was to
transform the vertically integrated public monopoly into a market-oriented competitive system open to
the private sector, and regulated by an independent regulatory commission. This was accompanied by a
Presidential decree which outlines the Government's privatization strategy for the sector. Second,
payment collections significantly improved, in spite of increased tariffs. Third, payment arrears were
rescheduled as part of a power sector financial rehabilitation plan.
28.   Despite these achievements, much remains to be accomplished and the Government aims to
deepen the on-going reforms by strengthening the financial position of the industry; establishing fully the
legal and regulatory framework, refining the structure of the electricity market, and effectively
privatizing the industry.
29.    Financial Strengthening. The residential tariff was increased in 1996 from 2.5 to 3.3 tetri per
kWh, and average annual collections of payments, from around 20% in 1995 to 56% in 1996, and 65
percent in the first half of 1997. In spite of this notable progress, both electricity tariffs and payment
collections remain too low. In addition, various categories of households benefit from discounts, so that
the effective average residential tariff is significantly lower than the nominal tariff. Thus the power
industry continues to provide implicit subsidies to its customers. To address this issue, in August 1997,
the average residential tariff was raised to 4.5 tetri per kWh, to equal industrial tariff, and discounts for
households and industry were eliminated. At the same time, the Government increased wages in the
budgetary sector, and social benefits to compensate poor households and low-wage workers.
30.   Improving further collection of payments will not only strengthen the financial position of the
power industry, but also harden budget constraints in the economy, thus contributing to financial
discipline and overall economic restructuring. The average annual collection rate for 1997 is targeted to
reach at least 70 percent (excluding the Abkhazia region, and Tskhinvali). And in 1998, the objective is



- 7 -
to reach a 85 percent average annual collection rate. For distribution companies which have consistently
failed to collect at least 40 percent of their supply, the Inter-Ministerial Commission requested at the end
of July 1997, a change of management to the municipalities.
31.   Finally, implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan adopted in December 1996, will
lead to a repayment of arrears over the next several years. After the first payment fell due in June 1997,
the Government initiated bankruptcy proceedings against industrial consumers failing to honor their
obligations to foster timely payments.
32.   Market Structure, Legal and Regulatory Framework. In June 1997, Parliament adopted an
Electricity Law which separates the policy, regulatory and ownership functions of the Government,
disengages the Government from business operations, establishes an independent electricity regulatory
commission, creates independent generation, transmission and distribution companies, opens the way to-
competition in the production and distribution of electricity; and allows for private ownership of assets.
By October, the Regulatory Commission will have its Charter adopted, and its 1997 budget allocated.
This will be followed by the appointment of permanent commissioners and the issuance of temporary
licenses to the sector enterprises. By the end of February 1998, the structure of the electricity market will
be further refined with: (i) the establishment of rules governing the relationships between and among
generators, dispatch, transmission and distribution entities; (ii) the adoption of a new tariff methodology
and tariff-setting procedures, and the determination of a program of implementing the new tariff, with a
view to attaining full cost recovery by end- 1998 in accordance with the Government's Statement of
Power Sector Development Policy; and (iii) replacement of interim licenses by permanent ones for
sector operating entities.
33.   Privatization of the Power Sector. To maximize investment prospects, transfer of technology
and know-how, the Government intends to privatize generation and distribution enterprises through
sales of majority shares to strategic investors in a competitive process open to local and foreign
investors. Distribution companies would be sold first as improvements in these companies through
better payment collection would lead to a faster financial consolidation of the power industry, and
increase the value of generation companies. Currently the distribution sector consists of 66 enterprises.
Except for Telasi - the largest company which supplies Tbilisi - and possibly few others, most of them
are small and their viability questionable. To allow for economies of scale and improve prospects for
sales to strategic investors, the Government envisages to group them in suitable privatization packages -
after due consideration to economic and technical factors - and to give opportunities for mergers to
potential investors. By February 1998, the Government will - in agreement with the Bank - have
grouped the distribution companies in suitable packages, defined the privatization strategy for generation
companies, and, as necessary, appointed privatization consultants.
34.    Oil Sector. Although Georgia's oil potential is not believed to be a great as that of Caspian
states, it holds the promise of reducing significantly the country's energy deficit as well as attracting
considerable foreign investment and generating fiscal revenues. In this sector, private activity is already
picking up. There are currently two joint ventures as well as several exploration agreements. However,
investment is still constrained by the lack of legislative framework on production sharing. To give the
necessary impetus to private investment, the Government has already prepared a draft law on oil and gas
production sharing. This law will be enacted by end- 1997.



-8 -
Restructuring the Banking Sector
35.   The Government and the National Bank of Georgia have been working to ensure that savings are
efficiently intermediated by privately owned, sound, competing banks. The five state-owned banks were
merged into three and privatized. Numerous unsound banks have been closed, 46 privately owned banks
have been certified, accounting is being changed to conform to international standards and NBG's
supervision of the banks has been greatly improved.
36.   The NBG will continue to closely monitor the performance of the three former state banks until
each bank is certified. Two of the three have taken commendable measures: they raised additional
equity, closed unviable branches, reduced excessive staff, improved loan collections and are on the way
to being certified. For these two banks, the NBG has replaced in July 1997 the timetable in place since
May 1996 by more limited restrictions which will remain binding until the banks can be certified.
Agrobank showed no improvement and the NBG replaced its management with temporary
administrators.
37.   The Government and the NBG reiterate their earlier commitment not to insure deposits or invest
in commercial banks. Since Government accounts at Agrobank are at risk, they support the improvement
attempts of the temporary administrators who plan to raise cash quickly by selling assets (including loans
and branches). In August 1997 the timetable agreed between the NBG and Agrobank has been modified
and the temporary administrators' plan endorsed by the NBG. Implementation of this plan started
thereafter. While the temporary administrators will attempt to put Agrobank on a sound financial
footing, the Government and the NBG agree that such attempts should not continue indefinitely, and
undertake to either certify Agrobank or revoke its license before the disbursement of the SACII second
tranche. Certification of Agrobank will likely involve an infusion of equity from private owners and the
Government undertakes to sell its ownership (now about 30%) to those willing to invest in the bank.
38.   The NBG intends to auction Treasury Bills shortly. As such indirect monetary control
instruments are introduced, the reserve requirements on commercial banks will be gradually reduced,
thereby also ameliorating the open foreign exchange exposure of the banks. Other restrictions would
also be gradually eased to enable sound banks to thrive.
C.    Alleviating Poverty
(i) Strengthening Social Assistance and Social Insurance
39.   Social Assistance. The sharp economic contraction experienced between 1991 and 1994 and the
curtailment of public resources have placed many Georgian families in economic jeopardy. To address
the serious problems faced by these families while taking into account the fiscal constraints, the
Government first eliminated a number of benefits, and then, in January 1997, replaced the existing non-
targeted program by a back-up program of targeted assistance to vulnerable households. Three
categories of households were considered as vulnerable: pensioners living alone, pensioners with
children under 18 years of age, and the unemployed with children under 18 years of age. The amount of
assistance per person declines with family size. As of May 1997, 112,000 households (about 300,000
individuals) were registered to claim the benefits.
40.   Overall, the program was generally successful in preventing access of the benefits to the non-
poor. However the Government is concerned that not all the deserving poor households are able to



-9 -
benefit from the program. Of particular concern is the working poor, and children and large families
among them. The Government also considers that further improvements in targeting would be needed.
In addition, actual implementation of the program has revealed that the procedures used for registration
need to be simplified, and the offices engaged in the work of registration strengthened.
41.   The Government is committed to further improve the targeting of the new program. Based on a
recent household data set, a Poverty Assessment for Georgia will soon be completed in collaboration
with the World Bank. On the basis of the findings of the Poverty Assessment, and after reviewing the
experience gained thus far, the Government intends to modify by mid-1998 the targeted assistance
program so as to: (a) protect the neediest families (whether or not employed) and the children in
particular; (b) reduce the transaction costs to the poor by simplifying the administrative procedures for
claiming the benefits: (c) preserve the incentives to work; and (d) keep the benefit levels and the overall
spending at a sustainable level over time.
42.   State Pensions. The state pension system in Georgia is still facing a number of problems.
Although pension benefits were increased 2.5 times in real terms between mid-1994 and early 1997,
pension benefits remain low, well below subsistence level. The tax base is narrow, due to significant
underreporting of income and employment, and lack of enforcement of tax payments. The decline in
contributors and under-reporting of wages have been exacerbated by the move toward flat-rate benefits
and the high social security contribution rate. While the adoption of flat-rate benefits in September 1994
was unavoidable given the fiscal constraints, in the medium and long term, it serves as a powerful
incentive to create employment in the informal sector and to under-report wages in the case of higher
paid employees. Tax collection is therefore low and insufficient to cover the pension payments.
Administratively, the system is duplicative and cumbersome and does not provide for adequate fiscal
monitoring of the appropriateness of pension awards and the lawful and most efficient use of resources.
43.   The Government intends to increase pension benefits, improve payroll tax collections, and
initiate a pension reform program to correct perverse incentive effects and address sustainability issues.
It envisages to move gradually toward a multi-pillar pension system as public finance strengthen and
capital markets develop. To that effect, in August 1997, the Government issued a decree which: (i)
authorizes the United Fund to obtain regular reporting from the Post office, banks, social welfare
offices, and improves the capacity of the Fund to exercise financial control and monitoring on other
elements of the system; (ii) establishes a working group of representatives of various ministries and
agencies to prepare an organizational review and reform strategy, in collaboration with the World Bank.
As part of this review, and within the framework of the overall tax policy and administration program,
the mechanisms to be used to improve collections, the reduction of the contribution rate, and the
appropriate sources of financing will be examined. The decree will also require the working group to
broaden the tax base by inviting on a voluntary basis self-employed, employees of small businesses and
farmers to participate in the pension system through contributions.
44.   By end- 1997 measures recommended by the working group to broaden the tax base of the
pension fund will be adopted and implemented as part of the 1998 budgetary exercise. And by mid-1998,
the Government will adopt and start implementing an administrative plan for reorganization of the
pension award and payment system. In addition, it will adopt a pension reform plan to be implemented
thereafter. The plan will aim at strengthening the financial position of the Fund. It will include the
necessary steps needed to introduce individual accounts and restore a link between contributions and
benefits.



- 10-
45.   Non-State Pensions. To complement the public pension system the Government intends to
encourage and regulate the creation of voluntary private pension plans. To that effect, a draft law has
already been prepared and submitted to Parliament. This law will be discussed by Parliament in the Fall
session. By end-1997, the law will be enacted and by February 1998, implementing regulations will be
issued.
(ii) Deepening Reforms of the Health Sector
46.   Faced with rapidly deteriorating quality and coverage of health services and constrained by a
precarious budgetary situation, the Government embarked in 1995 on an ambitious health care reform
program with the assistance of the World Bank and other donors. The program aims to increase private
sector participation in the health sector and limit the state's role to key areas where there is a strong
rationale for public intervention, such as health promotion, immunization, establishment of a regulatory
framework, accreditation and licensing, research, and education. The public sector would also continue
to ensure access to basic services to the most vulnerable groups.
47.   Implementation of the reform is now in its second year and Government commitment remains
high. Significant accomplishments over this year include: 1) merging the State Health Fund into the
State Medical Insurance Company (SMIC), which was approved by Parliament in May 1997; 2) signing
contracts between the SMIC and health care providers which are based on a new payment system
designed to control cost and limit the possibility of the SMIC accumulating arrears in 1997; 3) adoption
by Parliament in April 1997 of a health insurance law covering compulsory and voluntary insurance; 4)
privatizing nearly 400 health institutions; 5) initiating accreditation and licensing of health personnel,
facilities, and teaching institutions; and 6) a significant increase in the health budget in real terms in
1997.
48.   In spite of these significant achievements in the health sector and in the economy overall, the
Government continues to face challenges with limited public financing, requiring it to improve the
efficiency of its public spending while at the same time guaranteeing an adequate social safety net for the
poorest. In health, limited and not fully reliable public financing, excess capacity, and overemphasis of
curative services relative to preventive care continue, perpetuating the system's inefficiencies.
49.   The Government recognizes that health care should remain a priority for public spending and
consequently has more than doubled the state health budget in 1997 in real terms, from 19.1 million laris
in 1996 to 50 million laris in 1997. Despite the tightness of the fiscal program, the Government is
committed to not incurring any arrears on health sector spending in 1997 as this would severely
jeopardize all the progress which has been made in defining an explicit benefit package to be publicly
financed and contracting with providers for those services. In line with its stated goal of increasing
public expenditures on health, the 1998 state budget to be submitted to Parliament will include an
allocation for health of at least 7.3 percent of total expenditures.
50.   Currently, financing of most of the services in the basic package is the responsibility of the State
Medical Insurance Company, however, a significant portion of the basic package (almost 30%) remains
the responsibility of municipalities. This not only limits the provision of an integrated package of
services, but also reduces the control of the Government on the efficiency and quality of these services.
In 1996, municipalities spent less than half of the amount on health that they were allocated. In order to
increase the efficiency of public spending and improve regional inequities, the Government has
established regional branches of the State Medical Insurance Company and will pursue its
decentralization policy.



51.   In order to increase the efficiency of public spending, the Government is committed to
strengthening primary health care and restructuring the hospital sector. The Government plans to adopt
by end- 1997, a primary health care strategy which will emphasize disease prevention and introduction of
family medicine. Concurrently, the Government will develop and adopt by end- 1997 a hospital
masterplan which will determine which hospitals should be privatized, which should be liquidated, and
which should remain in the public sector as managerially independent identities. Privatization, closing,
and reprofiling would proceed one the plan was approved.
52.   Recognizing the need to develop an insurance system so that people will protect themselves
against the risk of high medical costs, the Government has introduced a comprehensive health insurance
law creating a compulsory insurance scheme with limited public financing and providing a legal
framework for the introduction of private, voluntary insurance. The regulatory framework for public
health insurance, including the administrative and organization structure of the State Medical Insurance
Company, was adopted in August 1997. For private health insurance the regulatory framework will be
adopted by November 1997.
53.   To improve the health status of the population, the Government plans to adopt a series of healthy
public policies including: i) limits on the advertising of tobacco, in order to reduce consumption of
tobacco which is the major contributor to the disease burden in Georgia; and ii) promotion of iodization
of salt to reduce high rates of goiter and other iodine deficiency diseases in Georgia.
('ii) Reforming the Education Sector
54.   At independence Georgia inherited a highly developed education system which provided free
services at all levels of education. Georgia was the country with the highest proportion of university
graduates within the FSU. However, the economic contraction and the sharp decline in public resources
translated into a rapid deterioration in the quality of education and a drop in enrollments in the state
educational system. In 1993, public spending in education in real terms was less than 10 percent of its
1990 level. During the same period, enrollments in the state system fell by about 20 percent.
55.   Aware that these developments could undermine Georgia's economic prospects, the Government
adopted in September 1995 a reform strategy which it started implementing thereafter. This strategy
aims at restoring levels of public spending that would ensure the provision of, and access to, basic
education services to the population. At the same time, it aims at fostering an increasing participation of
the private sector in the provision and financing of education services.
56.   Implementation of this strategy has already translated into an increasing share of public
expenditures directed to education. Although still modest compared to international standards, public
spending on education is expected to reach 1.7 percent of GDP in 1997, up from 0.9 percent in 1993, and
the Government intends to pursue this policy over the next years. This increased resource allocation has
been accompanied by a series of measures aimed at improving quality. Salaries of teachers have been
increased more than 6 times in real terms since mid- 1994 to slow down the departure of the best teachers
from the education system and restore incentives. New curricula and textbooks are being designed and
new standards for student performance established. An updated information system is set up at the
central level to strengthen management. The Government also intends to re-certify the entire teaching
staff based on their level of competencies. To that effect, the Government issued, at the end of June, a
regulation to start the implementation of the certification program. Following completion of the program,



- 12-
all teaching staff will be reclassified and a new salary structure rewarding performance will be
established.
57.   The participation of the private sector in the financing of education has already increased
significantly. Over 300 private institutions have been created. In addition, the Government is
reallocating public resources away from kindergarten, upper secondary and higher education toward
general education. Food is no longer provided for free in kindergarten and fees have been introduced at
the higher education level and in the 10th grade in 1996-97. The Government now intends to introduce
fees in the 11th grade in the school year 1997-98. To that effect, an education law was adopted in June
1997 which introduces tuition-based education from grades 10 to 12.



Annex 3
1 of 7
GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                  - : | -  -G  --|:CUR-RENT:ST                                    TAE                              S                         B         9
-OARURESENTATION ;702UAINA
A. Strengthening Public Finance While Maintaining a Prudent Monetary Policy
Maintaining a Prudent Monetarv Policy.
To reduce inflation tol2 percent in 1996    End-period inflation was reduced to 14 percent in                                  Maintain quarterly targets on net domestic assets of the
and maintain gross intemational reserves   1996 (down from 57 percent in 1995). Inflation for                                  NBG, net domestic credit to the General Government, and
to cover 2.5 months of imports.       first six months of 1997 is 3 percent.                                                    net intemational reserves, consistent with ESAF program.
To gradually increase the range of    Activity in the interbank credit auction increased in                                    Issue treasury bills during second half of 1997.
monetary instruments.                 1996 (higher frequency of auctions, expanded range
of maturities, and volume of transactions 16 times                                       Consider furrther reduction in reserve requirement.
higher in 1996 than in 1995).
Reserve requirement ratio lowered from 20 to 18
percent in January 1996, and to 15 percent in
September 1996.
Tmnrovinp Revenue Performance
To ensure sustainability of stabilization.    Tax revenues increased steadily since 1995 but remain  Parliamentary discussions of Customs  Enact Customs Code and Customs Tariff Law by end-
too low. In 1996 tax revenues reached 7.2 percent of   Code initiated (first reading).   1997.*
To reach a revenue-to-current         GDP (up from 3.7 percent in 1994) while total
expenditure ratio of over 80 percent in    expenditures amounted to 13.7 percent of GDP. Total  Number of imported goods subject to
1997 and maintain budget deficit at 3.1   revenues only covered 63 percent of current  minimum reference prices reduced and    Eliminate system of minimum reference prices.*
percent of GDP in 1997.               expenditures.                                    reference prices revised to reflect more
accurate price estimates.
Most tax exemptions removed in 1996.             Specific taxes (instead of ad valorem) used   Set specific taxes on cigarettes and alcohol at level
for imports of cigarettes with agreed  equivalent to ad valorem taxes. *
schedule of increases and first adjustment
effective September 1, 1997.
To increase tax revenues to 9.0 percent of  Excise tax rates decreased, corporate tax rate unified                             Strengthen customs administration*: revise procedures for
GDP in 1997                           at 20 percent, social security contribution rate                                         imports, transit, warehousing; develop and implement
decreased from 35 to 33 percent, 5 percent import                                        strategy for improved enforcement; computerize customs
duty introduced on a few selected capital goods, raw                                     declaration processing at airport and clearance terminal in
materials and medical products, effective January 1,                                     Tbilisi region; improve incentive system.
1997.
Continue strengthening tax administration:* expand large
1997 Budget approved, in line with IMF/ESAF                                             taxpayer unit; identify new tax payers; reduce tax arrears;
program.                                                                                 initiate bankruptcy proceedings on taxpayers with large
arrears; pursue computerization of declaration forms and
New tax code adopted in June 1997.                                                       tax inspectorate offices.
*Second tranche condition



Annex 3
2of7
GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
BOA.I  ORUETATO
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  .ti0                                                                                             ..OS...|. t1 
Program strengthening tax administration under
implementation.
Improving Efficiency of Public Spending   The public expenditure program remains tight: in
1997, public expenditures will remain at 13.3 percent
of GDP.
To improve capacity to perform essential
public functions and restore motivation  Public administration still characterized by  Nominal wages in budgetary sector     Eliminate about 15,000 budgetary positions and consider
of staff.                             overemployment and low pay despite earlier cuts in    increased on average by 15 percent in  further increases in real wages in 1998 budget.
employment and substantial increases in real wages.    January 1997 and 20 percent in August
Real wages increased almost 6 times since mid-1994    1997.
and employment was cut by almost 40 percent.
Nevertheless, wages are still at about half their 1991
level and substantially lower than in the private
sector.
To reallocate public resources toward
areas where public intervention is    Share of public expenditures allocated to the social  Share of public expenditures allocated to    Consider further increases in pensions and social benefits
critical: social safety net and social  safety net has increased steadily since mid-1994 with   the social safety net increased to 23  in 1998 budget.
sectors.                              pensions and social benefits increasing 2.5 times in  percent in the 1997 budget. Pensions and
real terms. In parallel, reforms are introduced to  benefits increased in the same
improve administrative efficiency and targeting (see    percentage as wages.
below).
To prevent deterioration of stock of
human capital.                        Public expenditures on health and education fell to 1.2  Share of public expenditures allocated to   Incur no arrears on health and education spending in 1997
percent of GDP in 1993. Since then, public resources   health and education increased to 18.6  and increase further the share of public expenditures
are gradually reallocated toward health and education.  percent in 1997 budget. Public spending  allocated to health and education in the 1998 budget.*
Simultaneously, within each sector, reforms are under   on health and education expected to reach
implementation to direct available resources toward    2.6 percent of GDP.             Pursue reforms in health and education sectors aimed at
essential services and increase participation of private                               improving efficiency within sectors (see below).
sector. (see below).
*Second tranche condition



Annex 3
3 of 7
GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
|: ' ' 'OBJECTIVES'   :  {       :'':':'' '' ,CURRENT STATUS                MAU S 'TAKEN  R             OR T :::MEASURESTOBE TAKEKNBY MID-998:
-BOARD PRESENTATION.....
B. Developing the Private Sector
Accelerating Privatization.          Small-scale privatization.
Privatization of small-scale enterprises advanced
To foster structural transformation of the   quickly in 1995 and 1996, and is now virtually
economy and improve enterprise       complete: 9,648 enterprises already privatized.
efficiency.
Medium and large-scale privatization.          Pricing policy revised: after attempts with   Privatize 109 enterprises through cash auctions by March
(1,043 enterprises)                            minimum prices are unsuccessful,      1998 (or liquidations initiated).*
Privatization started in mid-1995 with management    minimum prices will be gradually reduced
employee buyouts and voucher auctions. Until mid-    by 50 percent in successive auctions.  Privatize at least 25 percent of book value of another
1996, progress was rapid with over 500 enterprises                                    group of enterprises in heavy industry through various
privatized.                                    273 enterprises offered for sale through a    methods, including investment tenders or leases with
single cash auction with no minimum   buyout option.*
Since october 1996, cash auctions replaced voucher    price on August 1, 1997. Liquidation (or
auctions. Pace of privatization slowed down    bankruptcy) proceedings initiated for  Reserve for strategic investors 50-60 enterprises, mostly in
drastically as high minimum prices proved to be a  unsold enterprises.                the energy sector (see below).
major deterrent to sales. Only a few enterprises
privatized since October. By May 1997, total number                                   Sell residual shares through auctions or stock exchange.
of enterprises privatized: 522.
Fostering Enterprise Governance.
To ensure efficient operation of     The 1995 Law on Entrepreneurship does not provide                                     Amend Law on Entrepreneurship to improve corporate
enterprises and increase gains from  adequate definition of shareholders'rights and                                        govemance, protect minority shareholders' rights and
privatization.                       managers'obligations and includes accounting                                          allow accounting directives to be consistent with
directives not adjusted to intemational standards.                                   intemational standards and defined through decrees. *
To provide an orderly exit mechanism.
Enterprises are unlikely to file for bankruptcy with  Bankruptcy Law amended in June 1997 to
definition of insolvency included in current Law on    remove inconsistencies with Commercial
Bankruptcy. Provisions of law on bankruptcy of  Banking Law and allow creditors to
banks are also inconsistent with Law on Commercial   trigger bankruptcy process if there is a
Banks.                                         default on a promised payment.
Developing Capital Markets
To reduce uncertainty of financial   Securities market only emerging.               Presidential Decree issued in August 1997   Issue regulations* covering licensing and operations of
transactions, offer new savings                                                     to establish inter-ministerial commission    independent and in-company registrars. License at least
instruments, provide financial resources   A Securities and Stock Exchange Inspectorate has  to verify lists of shareholders for all joint   two independent registrars. Establish lists of shareholders.
to enterprises, and improve enterprise  been set up within the Ministry of Finance.  stock companies.
govemance.
*Second tranche condition



Annex 3
4 of 7
GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
0O1JECTIVE                             CURN  TTSMASRSTKNPIRTO  ::MEAUEST      AKEN DY MID,199R
Regulations for trading and registration of shares and                                Submit to Parliament a comprehensive law on securities,*
bonds, investments of insurance companies and                                         covering establishment of an independent Securities and
private pension funds still lacking.                                                  Exchange Commission; issuance, registration and trading
of securities; and operations of a stock exchange.
Prepare new accounting directives consistent with
international standards.
Deepening Reforms in the Energv Sector.  Sharp decline in energy supply since 1990. Continued
rationing of electricity to the population.
To remove barriers to private sector
development and sustained growth.    Since 1996, series of reforms introduced:       Decree issued in July 1997 to raise
(a) Sakenergo broken into independent joint-stock  residential tariff to 4.5 tetri per Kwh,  Increase average annual collection rate to 70 percent in
To increase energy supply and improve    companies; (b) Presidential decree issued to outline  effective August 1, 1997 (equal to  1997 and to 85 percent in 1998.*
the living conditions of the population.    privatization strategy; (c) draft Electricity Law  industial tariff and 0 & M costs) and
submitted to Parliament and interim Commissioners    eliminate discounts for households and
for Regulatory Commission appointed; (d) payment    enterprises. Wages and social benefits  Adopt by October 1997 charter of independent Regulatory
collections improved significantly: from 20 percent on  increased to compensate poor households   Commission and allocate budget
average in 1995 to 56 percent in 1996; (e) payment  and low-wage workers (see above).
arrears rescheduled as part of a power sector
rehabilitation plan; (0 residential tariff increased from   Average collection rates for January-June    Appoint by end-1997 permanent commissioners for
2.5 to 3.3 tetri per Kwh in 1996.              1997 reached 65 percent of total supply.    Regulatory Commission and issue temporary licenses to
sector enterprises.
Despite notable achievements, further progress needed  Change of management of distribution
to strengthen the financial position of the sector; fully   companies requested for companies which   Establish rules goveming relationships between electricity
establish the legal and regulatory framework; refine  did not achieve at least 40 percent  market participants; adopt tariff methodology and tariff-
the structure of the electricity market; and privatize  collection rate.              setting procedures and, on this basis,implementation
the sector.                                                                           program for revised tariffs; and replace interim licenses by
Bankruptcy proceedings initiated against   regular ones.*
industrial consumers who failed to make
timely payments according to plan on
rescheduling of arrears.
Electricity law adopted by Parliament in  Group distribution companies in suitable packages for
June 1997 and Regulatory Commission set  privatization; prepare privatization strategy for generation
up.                                   companies; and appoint financial advisors. t
*Second tranche condition



Annex 3
5 of7
GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
.-          S                          CURRNT XTTUS                            ASURES.:.  T-AKE  P:RIOR TO.         MEAUR......... E.PS TO ,E TA N    : Y  M...
Oil production activity is developing rapidly. But                                    Enact law on oil and gas production sharing.
lack of legislative framework on production sharing
constrains private investment.
Restructuring the Banking Sector.    National Bank Law adopted in June 1995 and      Special agreements signed with United  Maintain restrictions until banks are certified.
Commercial Banking Law in February 1996.       Bank of Georgia, and Bank of Georgia
To foster savings mobilization and                                                   replaced by limited restrictions to be
efficient intermnediation            Supervision Department strengthened and prudential   imposed until banks are certified.  Certify Agrobank or revoke its license. *If certified, sell
regulations upgraded.                                                                 remaining Government's shares.
Restructuring plan for Agrobank finalized
Bank certification program successfully implemented:  and endorsed by NBG with first measures   Do not insure banking deposits.
46 banks certified by early 1997; licenses revoked for  implemented.
non-certified banks (except for the three former state
banks).
Former state banks (FSBs) privatized. Only in
Agrobank, Government still holds about 30 percent of
equity.
Special agreements signed with FSBs in April 1996,
imposing restrictions and including timetable with
periodic benchmarks to monitor progress toward
compliance with prudential requirements. Since then,
two of the three banks have improved and the third
has been put under temporary administration in March
1997.
C. Alleviating Poverty
Strenethening Social Assistance and  The sharp economic contraction and curtailment of
Social Insurance                     public resources have caused a substantial increase in
poverty.
To improve the protection of the most  The Govenmment consolidated the various programs in                                 Based on analysis of household data and findings of
vulnerable households with scarce    existence and maintained two programs:                                                Poverty Assessment, modify targeting criteria of social
resources.                           unemployment benefits and child allowances. In                                        assistance program and simplify administrative
January 1997, the child allowance program was                                         procedures.
replaced with a program targeted to vulnerable
households (112,000 ). Benefits were increased 2.5                                    Enact Social Insurance Law.
times in real terms since mid-1994.
Although social benefits are better targeted than
*Second tranche condition



Annex 3
6 of 7
GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
;      T.T STATUS                                                            ME URER                TRIOR TOA                   ES T      .. TK       Y M)-I..........9..
before, further improvement is needed.
Administration of the program too complex.
National household survey data now available to
improve information about poverty profile.
To address sustainability issues, restore    Sustainability of the public pension system already  Presidential Decree issued in July 1997 to   Adopt and start implementing an administrative plan for
links between contributions and benefits,  improved with: (i) elimination of pension  authorize the United Fund for Social   reorganization of pension award and payment system.
and provide adequate income to the   supplements; (ii) pensions denied to working     Security to exercise financial control and
elderly.                              pensioners; (iii) increase in retirement age (from 60 to   monitoring; and establish a working group   Adopt measures to broaden the tax base of the pension
65 for men, and from 55 to 60 for women); (iv)  to prepare an organizational review and  system.
reduction in social security contribution to reduce  reform strategy.
incentives to tax evasion; and (v) responsibility for                                  Prepare a reform strategy aimed at introducing a multi-
paying sickness benefits partially shifted to                                          pillar system in medium-term.
employers.
Enact Law on Private Pensions and issue implementing
However, sustainability of public pension system still                                 regulations. *
affected by under-reporting of employment and
wages, lack of monitoring and financial control, and a
cumbersome administrative structure. System design
(simple flat-rate benefits) not adapted to long-term
needs.
Legislation for introduction of voluntary private
pension plans submitted to Parliament.
Deepening Reforms of the Health Sector.
To prevent deterioration of the health
status of the population, increase   Introduction in 1995 of a radical reform of the health   .                              Strengthen regional branches of the State Medical
efficiency of the health care system, and    care system aimed at limiting the state's financing role                        Insurance Company.
ensure access to essential health services   to key areas for public intervention.
by the poor.
Implementation in progress with, in 1995 and 1996,    The Govemment reduced expenditure  Adopt by end-1997 a hospital masterplan to determine
introduction of a basic benefit package, guaranteed  arrears to the health sector.     which hospitals should be privatized, liquidated, or remain
access to basic services to the most vulnerable,                                       state-owned. Proceed with privatization, closing and
creation of a State Medical Insurance Company,                                         reprofiling thereafter.*
removal of 130,00 employees of the health sector
from govemment payroll, and independent                                                Adopt public health policies, including limits on tobacco
management granted to hospitals and clinics.                    .__                    advertising, promotion of iodization of salt.
*Second tranche condition



Annex 3
7 of 7
GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
'''''O'''''ECTE'S:                      :- CURET' '''''US  'ASUS '|'|"''TAXE PRIOR TO    UEAS STO BETAKENBYMID-|9
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __............_ _               BOARD     MPRE S NTATIO
In 1997, achievements include: introduction of new  Decrees/Regulations issued in August  Adopt regulatory framework for private health insurance
provider payment system (to control cost),      1997 to define regulatory framework for    by November 1997.
privatization of nearly 400 health institutions,  public health insurance, consistent with
initiation of accreditation and licensing of health  Health Insurance law approved in April
personnel, facilities and health institutions, and  1997.
adoption of a health insurance law.
Reforming the Education Sector.
To prevent a deterioration of the stock of   After falling to 0.8 percent of GDP in 1993, public  Education Law adopted by Parliament in
human capital.                       spending in education gradually increased to reach 1.7  June 1997 defining basic principles of
percent of GDP in 1997.                        state education policy.
To ensure access to basic education
services for all the population and  Reform strategy adopted in 1995 - Measures to   Decree issued in July 1997 introducing
provide opportunities to children from  improve quality include: substantial increases in  tuition in grade 11 in school year 1997-98.
poor families to invest in human capital.  teachers salaries (more than 6 times in real terms since
mid-1994); design of new curricula and textbooks;
updated information system; preparation of a re-  Regulation issued in June 1997 to order  Following completion of certification program, reclassify
certification program for teachers,            implementation of certification program of  all teachers according to competencies and establish new
Reallocation of public spending toward basic   teachers during Summer/Fall of 1997.   salary structure rewarding performance.
education: food no longer provided for free in
kindergarten, fees introduced in grade 10 and in
higher education; free tuition possible for children of
poor families, based on performance.
*Second tannche condition






Annex 4
Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1. Time taken to prepare:                  8 months
2. Prepared by:                            Government of Georgia with the assistance of
IBRD/IDA staff
3. Preparation missions:                   February 25 - March 14, 1997
4. Pre-appraisal mission:                  May 17 - June 4, 1997
5. Negotiations:                           July 31 - August 1, 1997
6. Planned Board presentation:             September 9, 1997
7. Planned date of effectiveness:          September 22, 1997
8. Expected program completion             March 31, 1999
M:\Michelle\GeoSac2\Annex4.doc






MOP Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original Amount in Us$ Millions                              Between expected
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                                         and actual
Project ID     Credit No.   Year                 Borrower                        Purpose                IBRD           IDA         Cancellations   Undisbursed    Disbursements a/
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 2
GE-PE-8417      C26580          1995   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                MUNICIPAL INFRA. REH                  0.00         18.00               0.00            2.92                   3.35
GE-PE-8413      C26410          1995    GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             INSTITUTION BUILDING                  0.00        10.10                0.00             .63                   -1.17
GE-PE-S414      C28520           1996   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             HEALTH                                0.00         14.00               0.00           12.53                     .79
GE-PE-4438S    C2S4S0           1996   REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA                STRUCT. ADJUST. TA                    0.00         4.80                0.00            3.52                   3.64
GE-PE-39892    C28090           1996   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              TRANSPORT                             0.00         12.00               0.00            6.53                   2.14
GE-PE-35784    C29580            1997   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             POWER REHAB.                          0.00        52.30                0.00           52.56                   0.00
GE-PE-44830    C29440            1997   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             OIL INSTITUTION BLDG                  0.00          1.40               0.00            1.39                   0.00
GE-PE-8415      C29410          1997   GOVT. OF GEORGIA                   AGRICULTURE                           0.00         15.00               0.00           14.50                     .43
DEVELOP.
GE-PE-50910    C29760            1998   GEORGIA                           MUNICIPAL DEV.                        0.00        20.90                0.00           20.90                    0.00
Total                                                                                                           0.00       148.50                0.00          115.49
AcAive Loans         Closed Loans              Ttal
Total Disbursed (tBRD and IDA):                           32.27                 137.04                 169.31
of which has been repaid:                              0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                          148.50                 135.00                 283.50
Amount sold          :                                     0.00                   0.00                   0.00
Of which repaid     :                                    0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed                                        115.49                   0.00                  115.49
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based systemn will be used (HS = highly
Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Perfonnance Rating Methodology (SecM94-90 1), August 23, 1994.
c.  Following the FY94 ARPP, "[mplemeentation Progress" will be reported here.
G
Generated by the Opeirations Information System (OIS) on August Il, 1997






ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
Georgia at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middle-
Georgia      Asia  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (rinllons)                          5.4       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                              850      2,180    1.750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                 4.6      1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (X)                                         -0.2        0.3      1.4     GNP               A               Gomss
Labor force (X)                                        -0.1        0.5      1.8     per                              prmary
Moat recant estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita            I           enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populabon)                30        ..
Urban population (X oftotalpopulation)                   58        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73         68       67    1
Infant mortality (per ,OOO the births)                   18        26       41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrtion (X of children under 5)
Access to safe water (X of populbon)
Illiteracy (X of populaton age 15+)                       1         ..o..
Gross primary enrollment (X of school-age population)    82        97      104                 Georgia
Male                                                  82         97      105                Lower-mkdde-ncome group
Female                                                81         97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratio,'
GOP (bilions US$)                              ..       ..       2.9       4.6
Gross domesti investmentlGDP                    ..    34.3        4.0       5.0              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and servceGDP                  ..       ..       16.2     11.8
Gross domestic savinpGDP                        ..    31.1        -7.2     -1.5
Gross national savingstGDP                      ..       ..    -10.1       -9.1
Current account balancelGDP                      .        ..    -14.1      -7.6
Internet payments/GDP                           ..       ..        2.9      1.4     Savings                      Investment
Total debVGDP                                   ..        .      42.0      29.8
Total deot servke/exports e/                    ..       ..        7.4      7.5
Pr sent value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      23.7
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    217.7                             Indebtedness
1975-8   1986-96     1995      1996  199745
(average annual gwth)                                                                   -     Georgia
GDP                                   5.3   -19.0       2.4       10.5      6.9
GNP per capita                        4.5    -17.2      2.7       12.7      6.8               Lowermiddl-ncomegrup
Expootaofgoodsandservies              ..        ..   -11.3       20.2       9.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(X6 of G)                                    197C     19SC       199S             | Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agricuiture                                     ,,    25.5        35.3     33.5     150T
Industry                                        ..    39.6       26.7      25.1     100
Manufacturing                                 ..    30.2        20.1     18.9
Services                                        ..    34.9       38.0      41.3     so
Private consumption                             ..    55.8       100.0     92.8                                      es    9
General govemment consumption                   ..    13.0         7.2      8.8    -40
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..      27.4      18.4                     DI       ---GP
197W6-8   1986-98    1996     1996
(averag annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..        5.5      3.0     30
Industry                                        ..       ..        1.0      2.0     20
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..        1.0      2.0
Services                                        ..       ..       54.0     16.3     10
0
Private consumption                             ..       ..    -10.4        2.6             A1 92   93    95
General govemment consumption                   ..       ..       52.7     52.7    -1e       19
Gross domestic investment                       ..       ..      123.0     43.4    -20
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..    -15.5        9.1                   Expots  -0-Imports
Grons national product                         5.3    -17.1        2.4      6.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those speciflied.
* The diamonds show four key indicator in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
a I Debt service due after rescheduling.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1985       1996      1996
DomesSe pdces                                                                           Inflation
(% change)                                                                             20,000 T
Consumer prices                                                    162.7      39.3     15,000 +
ImplicitGDPdeflator                              0.7     -4.5      162.7      40.2    o10,000c            /
Government finance                                                                      5,000 -
(% of GDP)                                                                                 0      0
Current revenue (exd grants)                                         5.1       8.1 
Current budget balance (exd grants)                                 -6.1      -4.3                -     GDP def. -C--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit (exd grants)                                -7.2      -5.5
TRADE
1975     1985       1996      1996
(milhons US$)                                                                           Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                                  347      400    i7 -ox T
Black Metal                                                         38        75      5000 r
Tea                                              .        ..        1 1       26      oooo.
Manufactures                                                       265      233      4,000 - .
Total imports (cf)                                                   66       733      3o000- -
Food                                                               163       186      2,000-
Fuel and energy                                                    185       184     1,000 -
Capital goods                                                      121       127                          F . -           rW 9s
Export price index (1987=100)                                                                 00  91  o2  93  94  e5   9
Import price index (1987=100)                                         o. Exports    o Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1995      1996
(inilons US$)                                                                        I Current account balance to GDP ratio %)
Exports of goods and services                                       469       541       0
Imports of goods and services                                        791      841       s  90   91  592   9                  9 
Resource balance                                                    -322     -300
Net income                                                           -86       -50     .15-
Net current transfers                                                  O        O    1-203
Current account balance,                                                             I
before offidal capital transfers                                  -408      -350     -35
Financing items (not)                                                448      269      -40 t          L
Changes in net reserves                                              -40       81      -401
Memo:.
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)               ..       ..        158      158
Conversion rate (AocaUUIS$)                                        857.5  1,263.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1986       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                         Compositlon of total debt, 1996 (mIll. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                               1,212     1,365
IBRD                                                      .          0        0                                B
IDA                                                                84       165                               165
Total debtservice a]                                                  35       42
IBRDO                                                                         O 0               /           / \    C
IDA                                                                  0        1                                     1965
Compositon of net resource flows                                                                                       D
Official grants                                                    189      141                                     15
Ofkicial creditors                                                 173      186
Private creditors                                                   0        0                 E
Foreign direct investment                                            6       20              E9885
Portfolio equity                                                     0        1
Woud Bank program
Commitments                                                         75       91       A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                       83       81       B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                                o0        0       C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                                            83       81    1
Interest payments                                                    0        1
Not transfers                                             .         83       80
a / Debt service due after rescheduling.
Development Economics                                                                                                       8/6/97
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



