Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2983 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 15, 1997  
CREDIT NUMBER 2983 GE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 1997, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated August 7, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and  
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made."; (b)
The 
last sentence of Section 
3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions; 
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit."; and 
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional term has the following 
meaning, namely that "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty four million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 44,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
Page  3
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 29,500,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
Program;
(ii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken; 
and
(iii)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is consistent 
with the 
objectives of the Program. If, after said exchange of 
views, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that 
the progress achieved and actions 
taken are not satisfactory and, 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2008 and ending July 1, 2032.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2017 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  4
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Page  5
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
170 Barnov St.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212348 MOFIN SV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
1.
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728                  728.43              Tobacco processing
machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
Page  7
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has: (i) enacted the Customs Code and Customs Tariff Law acceptable 
to the Association; (ii) implemented the measures of institutional strengthening of 
the Borrower’s customs administration and the Borrower’s tax administration, both in a 
manner acceptable to the Association; (iii) eliminated the  system of minimum 
reference prices for imported goods; and (iv) set specific taxes on the sale of 
tobacco and alcohol products to a level equivalent to the ad valorem tax rates in 
effect.
2.
Improvements in the tariff collection rates of the power generation and power 
distribution companies have been made in accordance with the program agreed upon with 
the Association.
3.
(a) 
The following measures satisfactory to the Association have been 
implemented by the Borrower’s Regulatory Commission for the power sector: (i) issuance 
of regulations governing the relationships between generation, dispatch, transmission, 
and distribution companies and end users; (ii) adoption of a new tariff methodology 
and tariff-setting procedures and determination of the implementation program for the 
revised tariffs in accordance with the new methodology; and (iii) replacement of 
interim licenses by permanent licenses for power sector enterprises.
(b)
Adoption by the Borrower of a strategy satisfactory to the Association, 
for restructuring and privatization of power sector companies which shall include the 
list of enterprises to be privatized with the assistance of privatization consultants, 
and appointment of such privatization consultants to assist in implementing said 
strategy.
4.
The Borrower has (i) enacted an amendment of the Law on Entrepreneurs to delete 
Annex 1 of such law, to authorize appropriate agencies of the Borrower to issue 
regulations on accounting standards and to provide for the establishment of 
independent share registries; (ii) carried out a detailed review of the Law on 
Entrepreneurs with a view to recommending measures to enable improvements of corporate 
governance and protection of minority shareholders’ rights and, if found necessary in 
agreement with the Association, has enacted amendments to the Law on Entrepreneurs to 
address such issues; and (iii) issued regulations for the licensing and regulating the 
operations of independent share registries.
5.
The Borrower has submitted to the Parliament a Law on Securities,  acceptable to 
the Association. 
6.
The Borrower has privatized enterprises or initiated liquidation of 109 
enterprises from a list of enterprises agreed with the Association; and privatized 
enterprises which account for at least 25 percent of the aggregate share capital of 
another list of enterprises agreed with the Association.
7.
The Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that (i) 
Page  8
Agrobank was certified by the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) and the Borrower has 
privatized its remaining shareholding in Agrobank, or (ii) in the case of 
non-certification, Agrobank’s license was revoked.
8.
The Borrower has increased the allocations for the health and education sectors 
in the budget for the 1998 calendar year as a part of the overall budget by at least  
7.3% and 13.0 % respectively.
9.
The Borrower has approved a master plan acceptable to the Association for 
reorganization and privatization of hospitals, and has furnished to the Association 
satisfactory evidence that it initiated its implementation.
10.
The Borrower has enacted a Law on Private Pensions satisfactory to the 
Association and issued enabling regulations therefore.
