RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                      Report No. P rE 2
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
FOR A
SECONDSPOWER PROJECT
July 17, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMIENT
REPORT AND RECO!MENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
FOR A SECOND PJKER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $3.9 million to the
Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        This would be the Bank's second loan in Sierra Leone and to SLEC.
The first loan, made in 1964, was for the construction of the King Tom
power station in Freetown, the installation of two generating units, and
the expansion of the distribution system in Freetown. This project has
been completed and is operating satisfactorily.
3.        In February 1967, SLEC requested the Bank's assistance in financing
a part of their development program for the years 1968-71. An appraisal
mission visited Sierra Leone in September 1967 and recommended that the
proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan. Negotiations were
concluded in Washington in March 1968. The Sierra Leone delegation was
headed by His Excellency Adesanya K. Hyde, the Sierra Leone Ambassador to
the United States, and included among others Mkr. A.P. Bruno-Gaston, General
Manager of the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation, and Mr. S,B. Daramy,
Financial Secretary. After the conclusion of the negotiations, a change
in government took place in Sierra Leone and the presentation of this loan
to the Executive Directors had to be delayed pending the new Government's
approval of the draft loan documents.
4.        The following is a summary statement of the first Bank loan to
SLEC, as of March 31, 1968:
Amount
Loan No.  Year  Borrower                   Purpose            (US$ million)
388 SL    1964  Sierra Leone              Pbwer Development        3,8
Electricity Corporation
Total                                              3.8
of which has been repaid                          .1
Total now outstanding                              3,7
Amount sold                            .3
of which has been repaid             .1           .2
Total now held by Bank                             7
of which undisbursed



-2-
5.        A UNDP-financed transport survey, for which the Bank is Executing
Agency, is underway and it is likely that a lending proposal in respect of
one or two of the roads now being engineered will be received in late 1968.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LQAN
6.        Borrower:             Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation.
Guarantor:            Sierra Leone.
Amount:               $3.9 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:              Installation of a third 6.6 MW diesel
electric generator in King Tom power
station; expansion of the distribution
systems in Kenema and Koidu; and the
provision of consultant services.
Amortization:         20 years, including 3-1/2 years grace
period, in semi-annual payments beginning
February 15, 1972 and ending August 15, 1988.
Interest Rate:        6-1/4% per annum.
Commitment Charge:    3/4 of 1%.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of Electricity Expansion
in Freetown and Provinces" (TO-626a) on the proposed project is attached.
8.        Electric power generating capacity totalling 23.7 MJ, with
approximately 25,000 kva of distribution transformer capacity, is concen-
trated mainly in Freetown, the capital. The installed capacity in the
provinces is about 7,000 KU. Most of the provincial power systems operate
as isolated facilities, employing old generating sets of small size and
supplying minimal distribution facilities. The increase in power sales
in the country during the last four years has been about 12% annually.
9.        Generation and distribution of power in Sierra Leone, except for
some privately owned installations which supply mining operations, is in
the public sector. In May 1964, the responsibility for power passed from
the Electricity Division of the Ministry of Works to SLEC, an autonomous
corporation set up by act of Parliament. The Corporation is managed by a
Board, appointed by the Minister of Works, which represents both Government
and business interests. The chief executive is the General Manager, who is
an ex-officio member of the Board. The Corporation has been run efficiently
under his direction.



- 3 -
10.        The proposed project is part of the overall development program
of the Corporation for the fiscal years April 1, 1968 to March 31, 1971,
costing $7.5 million. The Corporation proposes to finance 48% of the pro-
gram from its cash generation and 52% from the Bank loan. The Bank's
project, estimated to cost about $4.8 million, would consist of the
installation of one 6.6 MI diesel electric generator at thw,Ring Tom power
station and the expansion of the distribution system in Freetown; the
installation of three 1000 KW diesel electric generators and the expansion
of the distribution system in the town of Kenema; and the installation of
two 1000 KW diesel electric generators and the expansion of the distribution
system in the town of Koidu. The project is required to meet the industrial
and commercial load growth, estimated to increase at an annual rate of 14%
during the five-year period 1968-72 in Freetown, and the expected sales
increase in the provincial systems. The King Tom generator should be in
service in 1970, and the Freetown distribution system expansion and
provincial systems should be completed in 1971. The proposed Bank loan
of $3.9 million would represent 81% of the cost and would cover its foreign
exchange element. The high percentage of foreign exchange cost is due
mainly to the fact that all equipment and many materials must be imported.
11.        Procurement would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding. So far, no orders for equipment have been placed.
12.        To minimize the Corporation's financial burden during its early
years, Government agreed in 196L that interest on the 4-1/2% irredeemable
loan stock, issued by the Corporation to compensate the Government for the
assets taken over, would be wAived for five years to August 1, 1969. The
Government also agreed to make an annual subsidy of up to Le 70,000
($84,000 equivalent) to cover operating losses incurred by the Corporation
in the provincial areas. Since the Corporation was set up in 196b, its
earnings have been better than originally foreseen, with a rate of return
averaging about 12% in 1966 and 1967, and it has thus achieved a sound
financial position. The Corporation now feels able to dispense with some
of the Government's assistance and plans, with the approval of the Bank,
to commence interest payments on the 4-1/2% loan stock accruing from
February 1968. It also plans to waive its claim upon the Government for
the subsidy payments covering the three years to the end of March 1969.
However, a provision for the Government to provide funds for offsetting
operating losses in the provincial areas would be included in the proposed
Guarantee Agreement with the Bank.
13.        After the foregoing adjustments, estimated balance sheets for
the period 1968 through 1971 show a continued satisfactory position with
rates of return averaging about 9%. Debt service and interest on the proposed
loan would be fully covered. The debt service coverage by internally
generated funds would range between 4. times in 1967 and 3.0 times in
1972, and interest coverage by net operating income between 3.8 times in
1968 and 2.6 times in 1972. The Borrower would agree to take all steps
required to earn a return of at least 8% on its average net fixed assets
in operation. The net fixed assets would be revalued from time to time in
accordance with methods acceptable to the Bank and with the assistance of
the consultants.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Sierra Leone
Electricity Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between Sierra Leone
and the Bank, a letter from the Bank of Sierra Leone by which it will
accept the Negative Pledge covenant provided for in the draft guarantee
Agreement, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section V(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
15.        The draft legal documents contain provisions generally used for
Bank loans for power projects. In addition, the draft Loan Agreement
provides that: (i) the Borrower shall not appoint a General Manager unless
the qualifications and experience of the candidate are acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) the Borrower shall pay interest on certain stocks issued to the
Guarantor only if such payment does not materially and adversely effect
the financial position of the Borrower; (iii) the Borrower shall earn a
rate of return on its average net fixed assets in operation as described
in Paragraph 13 of this report.
16.        The Guarantor undertakes to provide funds for offsetting losses
incurred by the Borrower in the operation of electricity facilities outside
Freetown and Bo, and for meeting the cost of any construction or expansion
of any new electricity facilities outside Freetown, other than those
provided for under this Project.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.        An Economic Memorandum on Sierra Leone (AF-66a) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on November 27, 1967 (R67-172). It concluded
that Sierra Leone is creditworthy for additional borrowing on Bank terms.
It also emphasized that the Central Government's weak fiscal performance
was in the past a major impediment to a more vigorous development effort.
However, over the past year an appreciable improvement in budgetary
discipline took place. A stabilization program was devised and as a result
inflationary pressure was reduced and a further drawdown of reserves
avoided. Important decisions were taken to reorganize the Produce Marketing
Board, the country's most important public corporation, and to phase out
the railway, the deficit of which is a heavy burden on the budget. These
combined measures improved prospects for more savings to match external
assistance for development. For projects now in preparation, Sierra Leone
can absorb more aid than it has received in the past. An economic mission
which has just returned from Sierra Leone reports that the new Government,
which assumed power in April 1968, intends to continue to pursue economic
policies aimed at sound public financial performance.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
18.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
19.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation
in an amount equivalent to US $3, 900,000 to be guaranteed
by Sierra Leone.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Sierra Leone Electricity
Corporation to be guaranteed by Sierra Leone, in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand United States
dollars (US $3,900,000), to mature on and prior to August 15, 1988, to
bear interest at the rate of six and one-fourth per cent (6-1/4%) per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be sub-
stantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of Loan Agreement (Second Power Project) between the Bank and Sierra
Leone Electricity Corporation, and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Second
Power Project) between Sierra Leone and the Bank, which have been presented
to this meeting.
Attachment                           Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D. C.
July 17, 1968



