OFFICIAL             LOAN NUMBER 2388 KO
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Jeonju Regional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        /tLOL 602,-          , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2388 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          A,/61v c  Wa2_   , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Coi-di tions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOC" means    the  Ministry  of  Construction  of  the
Borrower;
(b) "IRCO" means the Iri Regional Construction Office
within MOC;
(c) "KDB" means the Korea Development Bank, a statutory
body established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(d)  "KLDC" means the Korea Land Development Corporation, a
statutory body established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(e) "KNTC" means the Korea National Tourism Corporation, a
statutory body established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(f) "NHF" means the National Housing Fund established
pursuant to   the Housing   Construction Promotion Law    of  the
Borrower and operated and managed by MOC;


﻿- 2 -
(g) "NPPB" means the National Physical Planning Bureau of
MOC;
(h) "Project City" means any one of the cities referred to
in Parts A, B, C, D and E (1) (a) of the Project and "Project
Cities" means all of such cities;
(i) "Okgu County" means the county with juii.sdiction over
the Seonyu Island group referred to in Part E (3) (  the Project;
(j) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Project Cities,
pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to such agreements;
(k) "py" means pyong, a Korean area measurement unit equal
to about 3.3 square meters.
(1) "Won" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(m) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty million
dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provision of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in the United States dollars a


﻿- 3 -
special account in the Korea First Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred forty nine thousand six hundred and
twenty-six dollars ($149,626).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to ti-ne.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means:  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. IRCO, KLDC and KNTC are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken with respect to their respec-
tive parts of the Project under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) carry out or cause to be
carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and public utility practices; (b) provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose; and (c) cause all its
departments, agencies and administrative subdivisions, and all
agencies of its administrative subdivisions, involved in the


﻿-5-
carrying out or the financing of the Project or any part thereof,
to cooperate effectively with one another in the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend up to an aggre-
gate amount of $11,700,000 equivalent, or such other amount as
the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan to the Project Cities under subsidiary loan
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the Pro-
ject Cities, under terms and conditions which shall have been ap-
proved by the Bank, including those set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, and providing for the repayment to the Borrower
by the Project Cities of all amounts equivalent to the proceeds
of the Loan withdrawn: (i) by IRCO on account of expenditures
incurred (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be incurred) on
behalf of Jeonju City under Part C of the Project; (ii) by KLDC
on account of expenditures incurred (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be incurred) on behalf of Iri City and Jeonju City
under Parts A and B of the Project; and (iii) by KNTC on account
of expenditures incurred (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
incurred) on behalf of Namweon City for the tourist site under
Part E (1) (a) of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause to be transferred,
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and promptly upon
completion of construction, the facilities referred to herein:
(a) to Iri City and Jeonju City, respectively, the
facilities constructed by KLDC or IRCO, as the case may be, on
their behalf under Parts A, B, C, D and F (3) of the Project;
(b) to Namweon City, the facilities constructed by KNTC or
IRCO on its behalf under Part E (1) (a) of the Project; and
(c) to Okgu County, the facilities constructed by IRCO on
its behalf under Part E (3) of the Project.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall provide, and cause its relevant departments or agencies,
including KLDC, KNTC, KDB and the Project Cities, to provide, as
and when required and under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, all such funds as shall be required in addition to the
proceeds of the Loan to ensure the timely and efficient carrying
out of the Project.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower shall cause the following agreements to be entered into
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank:
(i) between KLDC and Iri City, outlining, inter alia,
the terms and conditions on which KLDC and Iri
City are to provide funds for, and to share in the
revenues from sales of plots under, Parts A and B
(a) of the Project;
(ii) between KLDC and Jeonju City, outlining, inter
alia, the terms and conditions on which KLDC and
Jeonju City are to provide funds for, and to share
in the revenues from sales of plots under, Part B
(b) of the Project; and
(iii) between KNTC and Namweon City, outlining, inter
alia, the terms and conditions on which KNTC and
Namweon City are to provide funds for, and to
share in the revenues from sales of plots under,
Part E (1) (a) of the Project.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in (a)
supervision of construction under the Project, and (b) carrying
out Part G of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to
be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident


﻿-7-
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Without limiting the generality of paragraph (b) of
this Section, the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank quarterly reports on the carrying out of the Pro-
ject. Such reports shall be submitted in such form and in such
detail and within such a period as the Bank shall reasonably
request, and shall indicate, among other things, progress made
and problems encountered during the quarter under review, steps
taken or proposed to be taken to remedy these problems and
proposed program of activities and expected progress during the
following semester.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 8 -
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly aft2r such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, at least six months prior
to completion of construction under the Project, cause:
(a) Iri City, with the assistance of KLDC, to prepare and
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments: (i) a marketing
plan for the sale of residential plots under Part A of the
Project, outlining, inter alia, proposed sales prices including
cross-subsidies for low-income plots, regulation governing sales
and a time schedule for sales; and (ii) an investment plan,
outlining, inter alia, plans for the further investment of funds
generated by the sale of said plots, and expected viability of
and returns from such investments.
(b) each of Jeonju City and Iri City, with the assistance
of KLDC, to prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments: (i) a marketing plan for the sale of industrial plots
under Part B of the Project, outlining, inter alia, proposed
sales prices, regulations governing sales and a time schedule for
sales; and (ii) an investment plan, outlining, inter alia, plans
for the further investment of funds generated by the sale of said
plots, and expected viability of and returns from such invest-
ments.


﻿-9-
(c) Namweon City, with the assistance of KNTC, to prepare
and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments: (i) a
marketing plan for the sale of commercial plots under Part E (1)
(a) of the Project, outlining, inter alia, proposed sales prices;
and (ii) an investment plan, outlining, inter alia, plans for the
further investment of funds generated by the sale of said plots,
and expected viability of and returns from such investments.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) by October 31, 1984,
agree with the Bank on terms of reference for the study under
Part G of the Project; (b) by April 30, 1986, furnish to the Bank
for its review and comments, the findings and recommendations
arising out of said study; and (c) thereafter exchange views with
the Bank regarding such findings and recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at nc cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 10 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower,
including IRCO, KLDC and KNTC, responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause IRCO, KLDC and KNTC to coor-
dinate the maintenance of the accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section through NPPB in cooperation with Jeon Bug
Province and, to this end, to agree on, and establish, an appro-
priate accounting and internal reporting system.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon


﻿- 11 -
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate records, accounts and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. Th- Borrower shall cause each of IRCO, KLDC
and KNTC:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all tImes to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) take all steps necessary to enable and cause the
Project Cities and Okgu County at all times to operate and main-
tain or cause to be operated and maintained the facilities trans-
ferred to them pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement, to
make or cause to be made repairs thereto and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility
practices, and to provide or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for these purposes; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) cause the facilities constructed under Parts E (1) (b),
E (2), F (1) and F (2) of the Project at all times to be operated
and maintained and repaired and renewed, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices and provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for these purposes.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause NHF to provide
mortgage loans on standard NHF terms for purchase of low-income
plots and construction of houses thereon in the housing estate to
be established under Part A of the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the pavement of
National Road No. 27 to be completed in time for the commission-
ing of the bridge to be constructed at Woonam under Part F (1) of
the Project.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to enable and cause
Jeonju City to establish and maintain for its Water Works Bureau
tariffs and other charges at such levels as shall be necessary to
provide revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return
on the value of said Water Works Bureau's net fixed assets in
operation as follows:
(i) in fiscal years 1987 to 1991, not less than 6%;
and
(ii) in fiscal year 1992 and thereafter, not less than
8%.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing operating income for the year in question
by the average value of net fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of each
year.
(ii) The term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross book value of such assets,
less the amount of accumulated depreciation.
(iii) The   term  "operating  income"  shall   mean  the
difference between:


﻿- 13 -
(A) all operating revenues accruing from opera-
tions, and
(B) all operating and administrative expenses,
including taxes, and adequate maintenance and
depreciation, but excluding interest and
other charges on debt.
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to enable and cause
Jeonju City to ensure that its Water Works Bureau will not: (i)
undertake any other expansion works prior to completion of con-
struction under the Project; and (ii) incur any debt if, after
the undertaking of such work or the incurrence of such debt, its
internal cash generation for the fiscal year next preceding such
undertaking or incurrence would be less than 1.5 times the esti-
mated maximum debt service requirement on all its debt (including
the debt to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any indebtedness maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on
which it was originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment, on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreeement
providing for such guarantee has been entered in-
to, but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt shall be outstanding;
(iii) the term "internal cash generation" means revenues
from all sources related to operations, adjusted
to take account of tariffs in effect at the time
of incurrence of the debt even though they were
not in effect during the twelve-month p#eriod to
which such revenues relate, less all expenses
related to operations, including adequate mainte-
nance and administration and all taxes and pay-
ments in lieu of taxes, but before provision for
depreciation of assets and interest and other
charges on debt;


﻿- 14 -
(iv) the term "debt service requirement" means the ag-
gregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing laoful rate of ex-
change at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt or, in the absense of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange sat-
isfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause Jeonju City to ensure
that its Water Works Bureau shall: (a) maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition;
(b) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(c) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that:


﻿- 15 -
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been duly
executed on behalf of the Borrower and each of the Project
Cities, respectively;
(b) the agreements between KLDC and Iri City, KLDC and
Jeonju City and KNTC and Namweon City, respectively, referred
to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement shall have been duly
executed; and
(c) the   Special   Account  shall  have& been    opened  in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a) each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly
authorized or ratified by all parties thereto, and is legally
binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms; and
(b) each of the agreements between KLDC and -.ri City, KLDC
and Jeonju City and KNTC and Namweon City, respect[vely, referred
to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been duiv authorized
or ratified by all parties thereto, and is legally b,nding upon
such parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                              1984, is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 16 -
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Republic Gf Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                    Telex:
MOF                                K23243
Seoul, Korea
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /l    kC6V5
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                              J~~k~~
f?C itr>j Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works              44,000,000         50%
(2) Consultants'              2,400,000         100%
services for
supervision
(3) Technical assistance      2,000,000         100%
for studies
(4) Overseas training           200,000         100%
(5) Deposit in                2,000,000         Amount due under
Special Account                            Section 2.02 (b)
to prefinance                              of this Agreement
items under
Categories (1),
(2), (3) and
(4) above
(6) Fee                         149,626         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated               9,250,374
TOTAL              60,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist in promoting
economic development and creating employment opportunities in the
Jeonju Region particularly through the improvement of infrastruc-
ture and living conditions in major urban centers and the pro-
motion of economic development in the poorer mountain areas and
islands. The Project consists of:
Part Ai   Housing Estate
(1) Preparation of a housing site in Iri City covering an
estate of about 60,000 py consisting of low-income,
middle-income and commercial plots and complete with
public facilities including water, sewerage, power,
telephones and streets.
(2) Provision of loan facilities for purchase of, and
construction on, low-income plots.
Part B:   Industrial Estates
Preparation of industrial sites complete with public facili-
ties including water, sewerage, power, telephones and streets in
(a) Iri City covering an estate of about 140,000 py consisting of
plots ranging in area from 400 py to 10,000 py each, and (b)
Jeonju City covering an estate of about 200,000 py consisting of
plots ranging in area from 400 py to 10,000 py each.
Part C:   Water Supply
Upgrading of the water supply system of Jeonju City through
the construction of the service reservoir of7,000 cu.m    apacity
and about 21 km of distribution pipelines.
Part D:   Drainage Improvement and Flood Control
Construction of a retention basin and a network of inter-
ceptor and drainage channels and provision of additional lift
pumps to control flood waters from the Mangyeong River flowing
south of Iri City.


﻿-20 -
Part E:   Tourism Development
(1) Development of    the Mt. Jiri National Park     tourist
resort area through: (a) preparation of a tourist site
and construction of an access road in Namweon City to
accommodate construction of about 700 rooms for lodging
including basic infrastructure such as water, sewerage,
power, streets, parking and landscaping and supporting
tourist facilities; and (b) construction of mountain
tourist roads from Yugmojeong to Deogdong (about 19 km)
and from Banseon to Cheonunsa (about 25 km).
(2) Development of the Mt. Naejang National Park tourist
resort area through construction of a tourist access
road between Naejangsa and Baegyangsa (consisting of
upgrading of about 10 km of existing road and
construction of about 6 km of new road).
(3) Development of the Seonyu Island tourist resort area
through construction of two foot bridges linking Seonyu
Island with the neighboring two islands in the Seonyu
Island group and extension of the existing landing
jetties on the three islands.
Part F:   Transportation Development
(1) Construction of a bridge, approximately 350 m long and
10 m wide, to connect sections of National Road No. 27
at Woonam, including about 3 km of approach roads.
(2) Upgrading of about 32 km of National Road No. 19
between Namwoon and Gurye in Jeon Nam Province.
(3) Construction of a road of about 11 km long and 10 m
wide to provide a link between the proposed industrial
estate in Iri City and National Road No. 26.
Part G:   Technical Assistance
Carrying out of a preparation study and training for future
regional and urban development projects.
T  P  i
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1988.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1987
through   April 1, 1999                      2,500,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                         0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
but not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but                             0.87
not more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
maturity


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review  of prequalification. The Borrower     shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 24 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been      received  and  evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions for
Relending of Loan Proceeds
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, part of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be relent to the Project Cities pursuant to
Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement, inter alia, on the following
terms and conditions:
1.   The Project Cities shall pay interest at the rate set
forth in Section 2.07 of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The Project Cities shall pay a handling charge of 0.05%
of the principal amounts relent.
3.   The Project Cities shall repay the principal amounts
relent over a period not exceeding 15 years, including
a grace period not exceeding 3 years.
4.   The Project Cities shall bear the foreign exchange
risk.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth In the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4)
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in the
United States dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to
Category (5) and to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to the first sentence
of paragraph 3 to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the
initial deposit. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each
such deposit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.


﻿- 27 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit by the Bank into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Bank: (a) when the Bank shall have determined at any time
that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement; or (b) when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Categories
(1), (2),(3) and (4) for the Project, minus the amount of any
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial
deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) for the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Bor-
rower and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, be
made only after and to the extent the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be utili-
zed in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,


﻿- 28 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 2  L     day ofJ114". 198
FOR SECRETARY


