Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15400-WBGZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 7, 1996
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Operations Department
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1. 1996)
Currency Units in use =  New Israeli Shequalim (NIS) and Jordanian Dinar (JD)
US$ 1.00  =   NIS 3.141
US$ 1.00       JD 0.709
JD 1.00   =   NIS 4.430
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 ha = 10,000 m2
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT              =   Average Daily Traffic
CA              =   Civil Administration
CG               =   Consultative Group
EAP                  Emergency Assistance Program
EAPC            =   Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council
EHRP             =   Education and Health Rehabilitation Project
EPD              =   Environmental Planning Directorate
ERP                  Emergency Rehabilitation Project
ERR             =   Economic Rate of Return
GDP              =   Gross Domestic Product
GNP              =   Gross National Product
IBRD            =   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              =   International Competitive Bidding
IMSC            =   Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee
kWh             =   Kilowatt Hour
LG              =   Local Government
LGDP            =   L.ocal Government Development Program
MIDP            =   Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MLG              =   Ministry of Local Government
MOC              =   Ministry of Culture
MOF              =   Ministry of Finance
MOJ              =   Ministry of Justice
MOPIC           =   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MOT              =   Ministry of Transport
MOW             =   Ministry of Works
MTA             =   Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
NCB              =   National Competitive Bidding
NGO              =   Non-Governmental Organization
O&M              =   Operations and Maintenance
PCC             =   Project Coordination Committee (MLG)
PDA             =   Palestinian Department of Archaeology
PECDAR          =   Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PIP             =   Public Investment Program
PLO              =   Palestine Liberation Organization
PWA             =   Palestinian Water Authority
SA              =   Special Account
SM              =   Selected Municipality
SOEs            =   Statements of Expenditure
TATF             =   Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TC               =   Technical Committee
TFG              =   Trust Fund for Gaza
TFGWB            =   Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
UNICEF          =   United Nations Childreni's Fund
UNDP            =   United Nations Development Programme
UNRWA           =   United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WBG              =   West Bank and Gaza
WG               =   Working Group
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...........                     ..........................  i
1. BACKGROUND .1
Introduction.                                                                          1
Sector Issues.                                                                         3
IDA/Bank Group Strategy                               .5
Project Objectives and Strategy.                                                       6
II. PROGRAM SUMMARY AND DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION..                                          7
Local Government Development Program Components.                                      7
Project Components.                                                                    8
Sub-project Selection and Preparation Status.                                         9
Environmental Aspects.                                                                9
Program Objective Categories .10
III.  PROJECT COST, INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . 10
Project Costs and Financing ...................                   ............ 10
Institutional Arrangements and Responsibilities .........................  10
Procurement ...............................................   12
Disbursements .............................................. 12
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ................................  13
IV.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS  ........                       ............ 14
Economic Analysis ............................................   14
Benefits and Risks ............................................ 16
V.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................  16
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Infrastructure Sector Background, Issues and Strategy
Annex 2:  Local Government Sector Background, Issues and Strategy
Annex 3:  The Five Selected Municipalities, Background, Issues and Strategy
Annex 4:  Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 5:  Detailed Program and Project Description and Overall Output Targets
Annex 6:  Maintenance Sub-Program



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Annex 7:  Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program
Annex 8:  Local Government Technical Assistance, Training Strategy and Components
Annex 9:  Local Govermnent Sector Policy Reform and Development Matrix
Annex 10: Selected Municipalities' Policy Reform and Development Matrix
Annex 11: Project and Program Cost Tables and Sub-Projects for Years 1 and 2
Annex 12: Institutional Arrangements and Implementation Responsibility Matrix
Annex 13: Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 14: Development Impact and Output Monitoring Indicators
Annex 15: Procurement Arrangements
Annex 16: Disbursements
Annex 17: Environmental Aspects
Annex 18: Economic Analysis and Monitoring
Annex 19: Selected Documents and Data Available in The Project File
Map IBRD No. 27794
This report is based on the findings of a mission in West Bank and Gaza in November/December, 1996 and February 1996 and
was prepared by a team led by Mr. Kingsley Robotham (Task Manager, Senior Urban Planner, MNCWG), and consisted of
Messrs. Suhail Jme'an (MN2PI); Fitz Ford (TWURD); George Gattoni (TWURD); Stephen Lintner (ENVLW); Hishain Labadi
(MNCWG); Robert Beschel (EDIRP); Elmo Fernando (Consultant, Municipal Engineer); and Mmes. Hiba Tahboub (MNCWG);
Elisabeth Decitre (TWURD). The report was produced by Ms. Blanche Williams (MN2PI). Peer Reviewers were Messrs.
Tim Campbell (LATAD); David Sewell (EMTIE); and William Dillinger (LAIPS). The Managing Division Chief is Mr.
Alastair J. McKechnie (MN2PI) and the Program Manager is Mr. Odin Knudsen (MNCWG). The Regional Vice President is
Mr. Kemal Dervi, (MNA).



WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) for the Benefit of the
Palestinian Council.
Beneficiaries:            Municipalities and Villages in Gaza and the West Bank including 5 selected
pilot Municipalities; the Ministries of Local Government, Transport,
Works, Planning and Finance; and PECDAR.
Amount:                   US$40 million equivalent.
Terms:                    IDA credit terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years grace.
Financing Plan:
''.''''-'"''''.'.'" '" ;'" '"   ,...,,.,.,.,.,..,,.,.,.,,.,,,,.  ..  .,.  ...... ...................
Government       5   T                 5
IDA            21         19          40
Total          26  j    19            45
Project Objectives:       The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to help remove critical
infrastructural bottlenecks; improve essential services and facilities;
preserve existing infrastructural assets; create productive employment; and
(b) to strengthen the local government system, particularly to rationalize
roles and responsibilities and build finance and managerial capacity.
Project Description:      The proposed project would have two main parts. Part A, the
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement component, would help
support: the rehabilitation, reconstruction, extension and maintenance of
vital high priority village, municipal and regional road, water, wastewater
and sanitation networks, systems, structures, plant and facilities, including
neighborhood upgrading; and technical assistance and studies for sub-
project preparation and supervision. Part B, the Local Go.ernment Reform
and Capacity Building component, would help support institutional,
financial and managerial reforms and development in the Local
Government systewr. Supplementing the two main components would be a
Managerial Support and Incremental Operating Expenses component (Part
C) which would help finance the establishment of essential project
management and monitoring capacity, including operating costs and critical
materials and equipment needs.
Benefits and Risks:       The project would have a particularly positive impact on jobs, directly
creating about 3,500 man-years of employment; improve public health
services; protect and conserve sensitive and limited water resources, and
reduce the losses due to network inadequacies and inefficient utility



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
operations; make a start in improving roads, reducing traffic congestion,
travel time, and vehicle operating costs; preserve existing infrastructural
assets; rationalize and strengthen both central and local institutions;
mobilize local initiative and resources, reducing dependence on central
budgets and authorities; increase local autonomy and accountability;
improve resource allocation; open up opportunities for private sector
participation and development through consulting, contracting, and
manufacturing inputs; and help lay the foundation for sustainable
development.
The project faces considerable risks, many of which cannot be avoided.
These risks fall into two broad categories: (a) Political and Institutional
Risks: the success of the project requires stability in WBG, steady progress
in the bilateral  negotiations, and a maturation of internal political
processes. It will also require that incentive structures at central and local
levels are positive and mutually reinforcing. (b) Managerial and Technical
Risks: effective and timely implementation of the project requires the early
consideration by the Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council
(EAPC), the executive arm of said Council, of measures to strengthen the
SMs, MLG and the other implementation agencies, and the early
rationalization of PECDAR. It also requires the strengthening of the local
contracting and construction industry. Risks would be difficult to manage
but would be minimized through dialogue, careful crafting of incentive
structures, appropriately targeted technical assistance and close, on-ground
supervision in WBG.
Poverty Category:         The project is not a part of a core poverty programn but will support
Palestinian effort to alleviate poverty by creating a significant number of
lower skilled jobs at the municipal and village levels where poverty is most
widespread. Moreover, improvements to the water and sanitation services
will also have a positive impact on reduction of related diseases, which
most often affect the poor.
Economic Rate of Return: All investments exceed 14 percent ERR. Because of the open-ended nature
of the project, an overall weighted average ERR is not considered
appropriate.
Map:                       IBRD No. 27794
Project ID No.:            43339



WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.1    With the signing of the Declaration of Principles between Israei and the Palestinians in September
1993, Gaza became relatively autonomous. As a result of signing the Interim Agreement on September
28, 1995, similar autonomy has now been extended to parts of the West Bank. These agreements open
up new opportunities for Palestinian development, but they also pose rnew challenges. Among the more
important of the opportunities is the chance to begin systematically to address critical economic, social,
institutional and infrastructural problems, including, particularly, the problems of the local government
system. The challenge is to do so efficiently and equitably, and in a manner which best promotes long
term economic and social development objectives.
1.2    The Economy: The West Bank and Gaza (WBG) comprises some 6,000 sq. k-n and had a
population of 2 million in 1994. This population has been growing at the relatively high rate of about
4 percent per annum. Despite some recent positive signs the economy continues to experience severe
strain. The decline which began with the onset of the Intifada in 1987 still continues. This has had a
considerable negative impact on living standards, and in 1993 it was estimated that about 17 percent of
the population of the West Bank and 33 percent of that of Gaza lived in poverty. Tentative estimates for
1994 suggest that while Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 7.3 percent in real terms, Gross
National Product (GNP) grew less (3 percent in real terms) due mainly to the continued loss of
employment opportunities for Palestinian workers in Israel. Estimates for 1995 suggest real GDP growth
of 3.5 percent, but due to further loss in employment opportunities for Palestinian workers in Israel,i' and
allowing for population increase, real per capita GNP probably declined by some 7 percent. Also, the
already high 20 percent unemployment rate in 1994 is estimated to have risen to 25 percent. This
indicates that the positive job creation performance, particularly in residential construction, was
insufficient to overcome the impact of repeated Israeli border closures. The prospects for 1996 had
appeared somewhat more promising until the recent bombings in Israel. These have led to extended
border closings which have had a severely negative impact on economic and social life. Unemployment
is now at crisis levels, particularly in Gaza.
1.3   Infrastructure: Years of economic and political dislocation, neglect of local institutions and
under-investment in the public sector have contributed significantly to the present grossly inadequate level
of infrastructure and services. These levels are now far below those in countries with comparable per
capita GNP. For example, average urban water supply is only about 60 liters per capita per day
(compared to 115 in Tunisia and 137 in Jordan); in many areas water quality is low; system losses are
high; many villages are unserved; and few municipalities have adequate wastewater collection, treatment
or disposal systems. The road network density, while typical of countries at similar income levels, has
deteriorated to the point where, without immediate rehabilitation, past investments may be completely
lost. Some 50 percent of the roads in Gaza are unpaved, and it is estimated 40 percent of the road system
in the West Bank is below acceptable service levels. Electricity consumption (680 kWh per capita per
year) is low compared to Egypt and Jordan; networks and systems are generally in a poor condition;
services are unreliable; street lighting is almost non-existent; and some 138 villages have no services or
1/    About 63,000 job opportunities were lost between 1992 and 1994, and another 23,000 during 1994/95.



2                                                 Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
are dependent on isolated diesel-generated supplies. In general, infrastructure and services provision is
far lower, and networks and facilities are in a far greater state of disrepair in Gaza than in the West Bank.
These conditions cannot be significantly and sustainably improved unless urgent attention is paid to
rationalizing and strengthening of the local government (LG) system (see Annex 2 for further details).
1.4   Institutions: Following autonomy in the Gaza Strip, the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
and the Government of the State of Israel entered into the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and Jericho Area
on May 4, 1994, which, among other things, established the Palestinian Authority as its core policy
making body, and by the end of May 1994, a full complement of ministries was announced. Since then
a major effort has been made to consolidate these ministries and to develop administrative capacity. More
recently, separate national agencies have been established to manage the power and water sectors. Earlier
(in late 1993), the PLO had established the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and
Reconstruction (PECDAR) as the main transitional vehicle for economic policy making, programmning,
management and administration. With the development of ministries, PECDAR was expected to have
been restructured or absorbed into one or another of the new ministries. This has not happened.
Consequently, there is now a considerable lack of clarity regarding roles and responsibilities at the central
level. This has slowed institutional consolidation significantly and complicated policy. In October 1995,
the jurisdiction of the new Palestinian institutions was extended to the newly autonomous areas in the
West Bank. This jurisdiction is expected to widen as the peace process unfolds, with obvious implications
for central and local government capacity building. Notwithstanding these difficulties, significant progress
has been made in establishing central government institutions, but much remains to be done to develop
capacity equal to the enormous task of nation building.
1.5    Apart from LG institutions (discussed separately below), two other sets of institutions play vital
roles in the social and economic life of WBG: the UN agencies and the NGO's. Since 1967, the United
Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) has played a critical role in providing housing, health,
education, welfare and infrastructural services to refugee families; UNDP and UNICEF, respectively,
help deliver water and sanitation, and children's services. Some 900 to 1,000 mostly local NGOs,
responding to a political and institutional vacuum, provided a vast array of services, but particularly in
the health, housing and higher education sectors.
1.6    Local Government: Historically, LGs have been the cornerstone of Palestinian governance.
They have also been key providers of public goods and services in WBG. Municipalities in particular
have well-established service delivery and regulatory functions including electricity, water supply,
sanitation, solid waste management, local roads, libraries, parks and recreation, fire abatement, slaughter
houses, markets, land use planning, building and development approval, and business and professional
licensing. The LG system is composed of 31 municipalities, 103 village councils and some 400 villages.
The 31 municipalities accounted for more than 62 percent of the total population in 1994. Gaza differs
significantly from the West Bank in that it is considerably poorer (per capita GNP in 1994 of US$1,290
vs US$2,190 in the West Bank), is far more highly urbanized and far less fragmented geographically.
Its population density is about 10 times that of the West Bank, and three of its five municipalities (Gaza
City, Khan Younis and Rafah) account for nearly 75 percent of the total Gaza population of 0.8 million.
Furthermore, about 55 percent of Gaza's population reside in refugee camps, a far higher percentage than
in the West Bank. Of the 26 municipalities in the West Bank, the three largest (Nablus, Hebron and
Ramallah/Al Bireh) account for less than 20 percent of the total West Bank population of 1.2 million, and
the median municipality has a population of less than 13,000 persons. This geographical dispersion in
the West Bank presents special challenges for governance and the efficient di-livery of public services;
so does the concentration of population Gaza, albeit of a different order.



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project                                              3
1.7    Legally and institutionally, the LG system in WBG is rooted in the British Mandate. However,
Gaza's legal traditions and institutions differ somewhat from those of the West Bank. This is so because
in the aftermath of the 1948 War and the establishment of the state of Israel, Gaza came under Egyptian
administration while the West Bank became part of Jordan. Following the 1967 War between Israel and
its neighbors, both areas came under Israeli occupation, and fell under the jurisdiction of the Israeli Civil
Administration (CA). With the advent of autonomy, the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) became
responsible for managing the system. Since then MLG has been moving to unify the two systems, clarify
its role and consolidating itself.  To date its focus has been on preparing for national elections,
successfully held in January 1996. However, it has also begun to actively develop managerial systems
and has drafted a new LG law for consideration by the Palestinian Council. This draft law (the second
of two drafts) or some modified version is expected to be considered by the new Palestinian Council and
will form the basis for LG elections due in the latter half of 1996. Unlike the first draft which foresaw
a considerable degree of local autonomy, the second draft envisages a considerable degree of
centralization (see Annexes 2 and 3 for further details).
Sector Issues
1.8    The proposed project would focus on infrastructure rehabilitation in two sectors: roads, and
water, wastewater, and sanitation, and on some of the more critical problems in the LG sector.3' A
review of the key sector issues and proposed short (1-3 year) and medium-term (3-5 year) strategies is
presented in Annexes I and 2. A brief summary is presented below.
1.9   Infrastructure Issues. The most critical issues in the infrastructure sectors are the following:
(a) Roads: Inadequate network development; improving accessibility to villages; arresting the
deterioration and improving the quality of the existing network; relieving congestion on key
sections of the network; preserving existing assets through increased attention to maintenance;
improving surface water drainage, thus reducing the incidence of flooding and flood damage
(particularly in sections of Gaza); rationalizing the allocation of responsibilities at the central level
(between the Ministry of Transport (MOT), Ministry of Works (MOW) and PECDAR), and
between central and local levels, for system (municipal, village and regional) management and
planning (see para. 1. 10a); and strengthening the capacity at all levels to plan, finance, manage,
improve and maintain the network; and reducing delays and disruptions from repeated Israeli
border closures.
(b) Water, Wastewater and Sanitation: Improving water resource management--particularly
management of the highly sensitive Gaza aquifer; improving water supply delivery systems;
improving coverage and service quality and reliability to municipalities and villages; preserving
scarce resources by reducing the incidence of leakage in existing networks; improving
environmental and public health conditions through improving sewerage collection, treatment and
disposal system; improving wastewater resource management through increased recycling;
improving the overall efficiency of the utilities--currently fragmented among many individual
municipalities--through consolidation, commercialization and privatization; protecting Palestinian
water rights; and strengthening the policy making and regulatory capacity of the newly established
Palestine Water Authority (PWA); and
2/    The choice of sectors and rationale for the project is explained in the following section.



4                                                  Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
(c) Neighborhood Upgrading:3' Improving the quality of low income neighborhoods through
the systematic, coordinated and simultaneous improvement of infrastructure services and
community facilities, particularly in Gaza and the older sections of West Bank cities where the
majority of the poor live, and where basic infrastructure and services are extremely deficient.
The most critical general constraints are the availability and predictability of investment and maintenance
funding, and the limited capacity of the local consulting and contracting industry. On the funding side,
for example, in mid-1995 PECDAR identified some US$600 million of urgent and apparently worthwhile
infrastructure investments but less than one-half of that seems likely to be funded over the next four
years.
1.10   Local Government Issues. The most critical issues in the LG sector are the following:
(a) Legal and Institutional: Clarifyipg roles and responsibility for investment planning, aid
coordination and implementation at the central level--parti. larly the respective roles of MLG,
the Ministries of Planning and InternaLonal Cooperation (MOPIC), W3rks, and Transport, and
PECDAR; clarifying the roles and functions of LG, and degree of autonomy vis-a-vis central
government; and ensuring, where roles are already clearly assigned, that the capacities,
mechanisms and information necessary to make it possible to fulfill assigned responsibilities are
developed.
(b) Fiscal and Financial: Central/lInter-Governmental Level: Ensuring that provisions are made
for the financing needs of LGs in future public sector financial projections, both for recurrent
revenue and capital investment support; developing a coherent, predictable, efficient and national-
policy-sensitive system of inter-governmental finance and revenue sharing; strengthening central
government capacity to set national investment priorities and monitor performance at both central
and local levels; and bringing donor investment project financing at the LG level under the
umbrella of the public investment program and the purview of the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
MLG and MOPIC; and LG Level: Strengthening revenue bases to ensure resources are
commensurate with current and anticipated future responsibilities; reforming current cash-based
accounting systems to ensure that they make adequate provision for allocation of costs and the
maintenance of existing assets, and accurately reflect municipal financial position and
performance; strengthening cost accounting and service pricing systems; strengthening collection
performance to overcome problems partly attributable to the Intifada: consumer reluctance to pay
for poor service delivery, undiscipline, and weak financial management; reducing dependence on
net revenues from water and electricity utility operations to help fund other municipal routine
operations; and establishing a system of capital investment financing which reduces dependence
on ad hoc transfers from central government, net revenues from water and electricity operations,
and uncertain donor support; and,
(c) Managerial and Technical: Central/lInter-Governmental Level: Strengthening investment
planning, programming and monitoring systems, and reducing over-dependence on donors
financing in establishing national priorities and programs; and strengthening organizational,
personnel, staff development and training systems; and LG Level: Strengthening service delivery,
quality, reliability and efficiency; improving the maintenance of existing assets; strengthening
3/     Strictly speaking this is a cross-sectoral issue. However, it has become obvious from on-going projects
that if a significant impact is to be made in severely neglected areas, it is necessary to go beyond the
simple rehabilitation of individual sectors to the systematic and coordinated improvement of whole
neighborhoods.



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project                                                   5
investment planning and programming and monitoring systems, and reducing over-dependence
on donor priorities in establishing LG priorities and programs; strengthening organizational,
personnel, staff development and training systems.
Apart from the availability of funding and the time required to recruit and/or train suitable staff and put
systems in place, a critical general issue is the natural desire to consolidate power at the center, often at
the expense of the older, long established LGs. This already strong tendency is reinforced by the
centralizing models in neighboring Jordan and Egypt.
IDA/Bank Group Strategy
1.11   Since 1993, IDA has been in the forefront of a broadly based donor-supported effort to assist
WBG. To this end, and working in close consultation with Palestinian counterparts, in December 1993,
IDA developed the 3-year US$1.2 billion Emergency Assistance Program (EAP) which provided the basic
investment framework in WBG.4' Ten infrastructure sectors were identified under EAP for priority
support (education; health and welfare; power; telecommunications; water, wastewater and sanitation;
roads; transport; solid waste; housing; and agriculture), at an estimated cost of $600 million. In support
of EAP, IBRD transferred US$50 million from its own surplus into the trust fund for investments in
Gaza. To date, two projects have been developed and implemented from the proceeds of the Trust Fund
for Gaza (TFG). The first, the 3-year US$128 million Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP, FY94)-
-a forerunner of the currently proposed project--focussed on the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and
services in four sectors: roads; water and wastewater, education and power. The ERP was supported by
a US$30 million trust fund credit from TFG and became effective in September 1994. After a somewhat
difficult start due to local political and managerial problems (including prolonged border closures) and
some cofinancing shortfalls, it is now being satisfactorily implemented. The second project, the US$126
million Education and Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP, FY96), was supported by the remaining
US$20 million from TFG. EHRP became effective in September 1995, and is now in the early stages
of implementation. This project focusses on the rehabilitation of hospitals, health centers, clinics and
schools, and is part of a much broader program of sector support.
1.12   In recognition of the changes that have occurred in WBG since 1993 (partly spurred by EAP),
and having regard for the activities of donors and the various initiatives of the Palestinian Authority, the
predecessor of the Palestinian Council, in early 1995 the Bank Group began turning its attention to the
medium-term. Accordingly, a new infrastructure strategy was outlined. This reaffirmed the centrality
of rehabilitation of basic physical and social infrastructure, but pointed to the urgent need to begin to:
rationalize service delivery; establish the policy and institutional framework for investment sustainability
by promoting greater private sector participation in the financing of infrastructure and the delivery of
services; rationalize the public service;5' and reduce dependence on external funds to finance recurrent
costs.Y' Simultaneously, the Palestinian Authority, in consultation with the Bank Group began developing
a new Public Investment Program (PIP).Z' This Program envisages some US$1.32 billion in
investments, including some US$780 million in physical infrastructure during the 1995-98 period. After
4/     EAP was accompanied by a $30 million donor funded but Bank Group managed Technical Assistance
Trust Fund (TATF) which provided, and still provides support for TA and studies aimed at supporting
medium-term development objectives.
5/     Proposals for civil service reform are now being developed with support from TATF.
6/     To date these costs have been supported by the Bank Group managed Holst Fund, a component of
EAP.
7/     West Bank and Gaza: Outlook For Public Investment and Associated Funding Needs, July 25, 1995.



6                                                 Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
extensive consultations between the Bank Group and the Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council
(EAPC), a set of five supporting Core Projects were agreed as follows: Municipal Infrastructure and
Development (i.e., the currently proposed project, FY96); Water and Sanitation Services (FY96, focussed
on Gaza only); Palestinian Housing and Housing Finance (FY97); Border and Local Estates (FY97); and
Electricity Sector Investment and Management (FY97).
1.13   While preparation of the Core Projects is well advanced, the severity of the current economic
crisis (para. 1.2) requires an immediate response. This is necessary to relieve unemployment, minimize
social hardship, and avoid permanent damage to the peace process. In response to the crisis, an
emergency employment generation program has been developed which would create some 80,000-person
days of employment over the next 3 to 4 months. This program would be financed by augmenting the
Hoist Fund and increasing the commitment to ERP by US$20 million. It would also be supported by
accelerating EHRP and MIDP investments, and by providing for higher than usual retroactive financing
under MIDP.8'
Project Objectives and Strategy
1.14   The proposed Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP), then, is part of, and
consistent with Bank Group and EAPC investment strategy for WBG. It seeks to continue the thrusts of
ERP, but would break new ground by helping to initiate significant institutional reform and capacity
building in the LG sector.  Specific project objectives, therefore, are: (a) to help remove critical
infrastructural bottlenecks; improve essential services and facilities; preserve existing infrastructural
assets; create productive employment; and (b) to strengthen the local government system, particularly to
rationalize roles and responsibilities and build finance and managerial capacity. Particular stress would
be placed on developing an efficient, equitable and predictable system of inter-governmental revenue
sharing, strengthening LG investment and maintenance programming, preparing LGs for rationalization
of their utility operations and clarifying the role of PECDAR. In order to ensure significant impact,
husband scarce Bank Group resources and complement the work of the EAPC, other donors and other
Bank Group projects, MIDP would focus on two infrastructure sectors: Roads; and Water, Wastewater
and Sanitation. Stress would be placed on village improvements, maintenance issues and the upgrading
of low income neighborhoods.
1.15   Project and Program: Because the issues that need to be addressed are systemic and go well
beyond the confines and resources of the proposed project, a programmatic approach is proposed. Thus
the project would support, and be a core part of a much larger five-year Local Government
Development Program (LGDP) with congruent objectives and structure, and in which other donors and
UN agencies would be encouraged to participate. Both the project and the program would aim to provide
a framework for overall LG sector investment and maintenance programming as part of the overall PIP
under the jurisdiction of MOF and MOPIC. However, MOF and MOPIC do not currently have the
capacity to effectively manage the PIP. This capacity would have to be built up over the next 2-3 years
and the project would help support this. It is estimated that LGDP would encompass only about 30-40
percent of the PIP investments in the two sectors. Target program costs would thus be about US$150-170
million.29
The new strategy was sunmmarized in a note to the Board entitled "West Bank and Gaza - The World
Bank's Response to the Current Economic Crisis: An Interim Strategy", dated April 23, 1996.
9/    The project would aim to support core components of the program and to fund about one-quarter of
total program costs. Bank Group funding is not expected to exceed US$40 million. Recent experience
indicates that other program funding is unlikely to exceed three times this amount.



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project                                                 7
1.16   In order to test ideas and proposals prior to system-wide adoption and to husband scarce Bank
Group resources, reforms and capacity building would be focussed initially on five key cities; Jenin,
Nablus and Hebron in the West Bank, and Gaza City and Rafah in the Gaza Strip. These cities are
chosen because of their size and/or strategic importance in their regions.f'' However, it should be noted
that investments would not be limited to these five selected cities but would be distributed on the basis
of nationally determined priorities (see para. 2.4). The project and the program would build on ongoing
reform work in the SMs (particularly Hebron and Gaza City), the current efforts of Nablus to effectively
manage infrastructure and services, and the current efforts by MLG to draft a new LG law and strengthen
management and finance in the sector.L'1 Successful reforms would later be spread system-wide, as
resources permitted.
1.17   A key part of the LG development strategy would be the initiation and support of a 2-3 year
process of stakeholder consultation and consensus building. The outputs of this process would be, inter
alia, new (or reconfirmed) allocations of roles, responsibilities and resources, and the development of
appropriate incentive structures and systems at both central and local levels. The process would be
facilitated through the establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee and a set of technical
committees and working groups. These would be appropriately supported with technical assistance. It
would be illusory to expect that all of the many and complex issues can, or will be satisfactorily resolved
under the project and program. The objective here is to make a substantial treginning. Among the
specific outputs would be: a new LG law, improved investment programming systems; more efficient
and predictable inter-governmental revenue sharing system; improved accounting and financial
management systems at the local le;el; a system of routine and periodic maintenance based on clearly
established service indicators; better pricing of services; improved service delivery; and the basis for
developing regional utilities. To help guide the process and provide a basis for monitoring progress and
achievement a policy matrix and a set of development impact and output monitoring indicators have been
developed (see Annexes 10 and 14).
II. PROGRAM SUMMARY AND DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Local Govermnent Development Program Components (US$160 Million Total Program Cost)
2.1    Consistent with the objectives outlined above (paras. 1.14-1.17), the LGDP would have two main
parts (A and B) and one supporting part (C) as follows: Part A, the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
Improvement Component (US$148 million, or 93 percent of total program cost); Part B, the Local
Government Reform and Capacity Building Component (US$7 million, or 4 percent of total program
cost); Part C, the Managerial Support & Incremental Operating Expenses Component (US$5 million, or
3 percent of total program cost).
2.2    The program and the proposed project would be identically structured. However, the project
would be narrower in scope and focus (see para. 1.15) and would aim to provide particular support for
key policy objectives and those investment areas where donor support may be weak. In order to avoid
10/    The selection was done in consultation with MLG and includes a mix of weak and strong
municipalities. Jenin, Nablus, Hebron and Gaza are regional capitals, and Rafah is strategically located
on the Egyptian border near to the proposed international airport and a proposed industrial estate. The
other key cities, Ramallah and El Bireh, were omitted because of resource constraints, and because
they are part of the Jerusalem orbit and are already relatively well served.
II/    MLG is currently making efforts to standardize accounting systems in two cities, Nablus and Gaza,
with the assistance of international consultants funded by TATF.



8                                                 Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
repetitiousness only the project is detailed below. A brief comparison of program and project targets and
costs is presented in Annex 5.
Project Components (US$45 Million Total Project Cost)
2.3    The MIDP components are presented below and in greater detail in Annex 5.
Part A. Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement Component (US$35.6 million, or
79 percent of total project cost)
1. Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-Program (US$22.9 million, or 51 percent of total
project cost). Support for the rehabilitation and/or improvement of high-priority infrastructure
and services including: a) Roads: Village, Municipal, and Regional; b) Water Supply,
Wastewater and Sanitation--West Bank only: Village and Municipal; and c) Technical Assistance
for project preparation and supervision.
II. Maintenance Sub-Program (US$7.5 million, or 16 percent of total project cost). Support
for a 4-year program of routine and periodic maintenance by contract. It would include the
following components:  a) Roads: Village, Municipal, and  Regional; b) Water Supply,
Wastewater and Sanitation--West Bank only: Village and Municipal; and c) Technical Assistance
for project preparation and supervision. (Further details are presented in Annexes 5 and 6.)
Ill. Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program (US$5.2 million, or 12 percent of total project
cost). Support for much needed basic infrastructure and services to about 21,500 residents in
4 lower-income comnmunities in the Gaza Strip.L'' The improvements, depending on the needs
of each area, would include: a) Basic Infrastructure and Community Facilities; and b) Technical
Assistance for project preparation and supervision. (Further details are presented in Annexes
5 and 7.)
Part B. Local Government Reform and Capacity Building Component (US$7.1 million,
or 16 percent of total project cost).
I. LG Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program (US$4.0 million, or 9 percent
of total project cost). Support for a process of reform at central and inter-governmental levels.
It would include the establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Steering Comnmittee and three
Technical Committees: (Legal and Institutional; Fiscal and Financial; and Managerial), studies,
meetings and workshops. (Further details are presented in Annexes 2, 5, 8 and 9.)
II. SM Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program (US$3.1 million, or 7 percent
of total project cost). Support for a similar process of reform (as above) at the level of the SMs.
(Further details are presented in Annexes 3, 5, 8 and 10.)
12/   The project focusses on residential neighborhoods in Gaza but, in principle (funds permitting), could
include the older inner city commercial areas in the West Bank.



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project                                                 9
Part C. Managerial Support & Incremental Operating Expenses Component (US$2.3
million, or 5 percent of total project cost)
Support for project and program coordination, monitoring, reporting, accounting, auditing and
bulk procurement of essential goods. It would include: a) Consultants' Services; b) Training
and Studies; c) Incremental Operating Expenses; and d) Vehicles, Equipment, Materials,
Supplies and Spares. (Further details are presented in Annex 5.)
Sub-project Selection and Preparation Status
2.4     A set of core sub-projects have been identified and appraised, but some (about 20 percent) need
further study and other important potential sub-projects exist and need to be reviewed.)' In order to
respond to these and to opportunities and constraints that may arise during implementation, the project
has been designed to be both flexible and open-ended. Thus, during implementation and with the prior
approval of IDA, already identified sub-projects may be replaced with other feasible high-priority sub-
projects. To facilitate this flexibility while ensuring objectivity, transparency, and that only high priority
sub-projects qualify for support, a set of selection criteria have been agreed as follows: a) economic and
technical feasibility; b) readiness for implementation; c) environmental impact; d) consistency with
program and project objectives and short-term sector strategies as outlined in paras. 1.11 - 1. 17 and
Annex 1; e) community social and/or economic priority; f) economic and social impact; g) distributional
equity; and h) avoidance of unaffordable recurrent cost commitments. These criteria would be further
developed in the Fiscal and Financial and Managerial Technical Committees (para. 2.3, Part B (II)).
They would be operationalized by MLG in consultation with PECDAR and IDA, and would be fairly,
explicitly and transparently applied.f' The evaluation of sub-projects would be clearly documented in
quarterly reports to IDA.  The detailed schedule for sub-project implementation was agreed at
negotiations.
Enviromnental Aspects
2.5     The Project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" consistent with the
provisions of Operational Directive 4.01. All sub-projects would be subject to screening for potential
environmental impacts, resettlement issues and the protection of cultural heritage, consistent with local
regulatory requirements and those of IDA. They would also be supervised during implementation by
environmental specialists and representatives of the Environmental Planning Directorate (EPD) for the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation and the Palestinian Department of Archaeology (PDA)
of the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities. Formal clearances would be obtained from the EPD and
PDA for all sub-projects proposed for funding under the Project, consistent with current Palestinian
environmental and cultural heritage procedures.  No resettlement is anticipated and no known
archaeological or historical sites are anticipated to be affected by activities to be supported under the
proposed project. However, given the high density of archaeological and historical sites in the West Bank
and Gaza, provisions will be made in construction contracts for the use of "chance find" procedures
should archaeological or historical materials be discovered in the course of project implementation. In
order to support effective implementation of the proposed project, a series of three-day training courses
13/    A total of 185 projects valued at US$285 million were reviewed. The projects to be implemented in
year 1 are either ready, or will be ready, for tendering in June 1996. Year 2 projects will be ready for
tendering by January 1997. See Annex 11 for details. See also paras. 4.1 - 4.7 and Annex 18 for
discussion of Economic Assessment issues.
14/    All program participants would be encouraged to use these criteria.



10                                              Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
on the application of the Bank's procedures for environmental assessment, resettlement and cultural
heritage would be conducted in cooperation with EPD, PDA and the implementing agencies.
Program Objective Categories
2.6    The project would support the Palestinian effort to alleviate poverty, build institutional capacity,
improve and protect the environment, and create an enabling environment for sustainable private sector
development.  Specifically, in the short run, the Infrastructure, Rehabilitation and Improvement
component and, within this, the Maintenance and Urban Upgrading sub-programs particularly, will
generate a significant number of lower skilled jobs at the municipal and village levels where poverty is
most widespread. This component should also help preserve public assets, create opportunities for private
consultants, contractors and suppliers.
III. PROJECT COSTS, INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Costs and Financing
3.1    The total program (LGDP) cost is estimated at US$160 million. Program cofinancing is being
sought from donors but only about US$40 million has been tentatively pledged to date. The total project
(MIDP) cost is estimated at US$45 million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of US$19
million or about 42 percent of total costs. Base cost estimates are calculated using January 1996 prices.
The physical contingencies represent 10 percent of base costs. Price contingencies are derived from
expected foreign price increases of an average 3 percent per annum, in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines, over the four-year implementation period beginning on July 1, 1996. The EAPC (MOF,
MLG and the Municipalities) would contribute US$5 million (about 11 percent of total project cost),
particularly to maintenance programming. A WBG Trust Fund credit of US$40 million equivalent on
standard IDA terms would finance 89 percent of total costs. Retroactive financing of a maximum of 20
percent of the Credit has been provided for works and studies undertaken prior to project effectiveness
(para. 1.13). This provision has been made in order to support the emergency employment program.
The cost tables and financing plan for tie project and the program are presented in Annex 11.
Institutional Arrangements and Responws0bilities
3.2    The PLO would be the Borrower for the benefit of the Palestinian Council (acting through
EAPC) as mandated by the Interim Agreement of September 1995, and would enter into a Subsidiary
Agreement with EAPC with respec: to the implementation of the prc,ect. Execution of the Agreement
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness. The project would be
implemented over a four-year period beginning July 1996, and ending June 30, 2000. The Closing Date
would be December 31, 2000. The Implementation Responsibility Matrix, and Organization and Flow
Charts are presented in Annex 12. The Implementation Schedule is presented in Annex 13. Project
implementation arrangements are summarized below.
3.3   Policy and Program  Guidance and Coordination: Overall Policy, Program and Project
Guidance would be provided by an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee (IMSC), a subcommittee of the
EAPC comprising: the Ministers of Finance, Local Government, Planning, Justice (MOJ), Transport,
Works or their nominees; the Chairman of the PWA or his/her nominee; the Managing Director of
PECDAR or his/her nominee; and a representative from each of the SMs. A chairman would be selected
by the EAPC from among the group. The IMSC would be established by July 31, 1996 (i.e., about 2
months prior to the proposed LG elections) in order to provide inputs and guidance to MLG in the



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project                                                    11
drafting of the new Local Government Law on which the elections will be based. MLG would act as a
secretariat to IMSC. To provide guidelines for the process at the central level, a Matrix has been agreed
(see Annex 9), based on MLG's policy for the development of the sector. The latter is sununarized in
a Letter of Sector Policy which was discussed at negotiations (see Annex 4). Consistent with project
objectives (see para. 1.15) and in order to ensure that MOF can begin to play a central role in LG
investment programming, funding would flow through this ministry.'5'
3.4    Project Implementation:  Given the objectives of the project, MLG would be responsible for
sector policy formulation and management, with the exception of the regional roads component which
would be the responsibility of MOT/MOW. Since the above ministries have little implementation
capacity at present, they draw upon the capacity already built up in PECDAR under ERP. Part A of the
project would thus be implemented by PECDAR in consultation with MLG and MOT/MOW. However,
SMs would be responsible for their components, i.e., works located within their jurisdictions. Part B,
including the establishment and operations of technical committees, would be undertaken by MLG, again
with the components at the local level being undertaken by the SMs. Part C would be undertaken by
PECDAR on behalf of and in consultation with the sector ministries.'L` The following table provides a
summnary of the implementation arrangements for project components:
Part A:
*  Rehabilitation and Improvement   MLG (all except Regional Roads);  PECDAR in consultation with MLG,
Sub-program                  MOT/MOW (Regional Roads)      MOT/MOW (except SMs' components);
SMs responsible for their components
* Maintenance Sub-program       MLG (all except Regional Roads);   Municipalities in consultation with
MLG; SMs for their components;
MOT/MOW (Regional Roads)      MOT/MOW responsible for or assists
with others
* Upgrading Sub-program         MLG                            In SMs, SMs in consultation with MLG
Outside SMs, PECDAR in consultation
with MLG
Part B                          MLG                            MLG; SMs responsible for their own
components, but MLG assists
Part C                          MLG, MOT/MOW, and MOF          PECDAR in consultation with MLG,
MOT/MOW and MOF
15/    In order to streamline project implementation arrangements, MOF would not be directly involved in
managing project funds. However, as a critical party in LG investment programming and overall
system development, they would sign the initial disbursement request and PECDAR will sign
subsequent replenishment requests and submit them to IDA through the Ministry of Finance. They
would be kept informed by PECDAR of progress of investments and expenditure of funds and would
be provided with quarterly progress reports and financial statements (see paras 3.4 to 3.12). With this
information, MOF would be able to maintain a control account for the project and review consistency
with policy and program objectives.
16/    These arrangements would be detailed in Implementation Agreements.
17/    See also Annexes 8-10 for details on Part "B".



12                                             Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
3.5    Unlike ERP, in MIDP, PECDAR would not have a completely independent role, but, given its
expertise, would provide support to other project agencies.  This would be done on the basis of
Implementation Agreements which would specify the duties and obligations of the respective parties.
Two Implementation Agreements are proposed: one between EAPC and PECDAR, and the other between
EAPC and each of the five SMs. These Agreements would be reviewed on an annual basis and, if
mutually decided, suitably modified subject to IDA 's approval. Execution of Implementation Agreements
satisfactory to IDA would be conditions of effectiveness. In order to ensure that PECDAR can play its
role effectively, it will be reorganized, and it has been agreed that PECDAR would submit a suitable
reorganization program, including a time-bound action plan, to IDA by November 30, 1996. It has been
further agreed that PECDAR would enter into dialogue with IDA on the implementation of this program.
To coordinate its responsibilities under the project, the MLG would establish a special committee of its
directors. This Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would report directly to the Deputy Minister, and
would draw upon the services of existing MLG departments. The PCC would be provided with full-time
technical and administrative support by 3-4 well qualified LG management and finance professionals, and
by 3 full-time consultants. The latter would be financed under the project. Finally, to ensure flexibility
in the face of uncertain and rapidly changing circumstances, the structure of the project and the
implementation arrangements would be reviewed at formal, joint half-yearly review meetings between
IDA and IMSC. A formal mid-term review would also be jointly undertaken, with similar objectives.
During these meetings, steps necessary to ensure effective project implementation and ensure the
attainment of project objectives would be agreed, including, if necessary, steps to restructure and refocus
the project and the program. To help provide a framework for project monitoring and review, a set of
output and impact indicators were agreed at negotiations. These are presented in Annex 14.
Procurement
3.6   Procurement methods for works, goods and services to be financed under the proposed Credit
have been agreed and are summarized in Annex 15. PECDAR, in consultation with MLG and
MOT/MOW, would be responsible for procuring works and technical assistance under Part A, however,
SMs would be responsible for procurement of their components (para. 3.4). MLG would be responsible
for procurement under Part B, however, SMs again would be responsible for their own component.
Drawing on its experience, PECDAR would provide technical support to the other agencies on matters
relating to contracts, bidding, Bank guidelines, etc., as well as be responsible, in consultation with MLG
and MOT/MOW, for procurement under Part C. PECDAR also would be responsible for overall
monitoring of the procurement process. Because of the urgent nature of the project, part of the
procurement would be undertaken using simplified competitive bidding procedures in accordance with
IDA Guidelines. Similar procedures were used in ERP and proved to be satisfactory and efficient. All
equipment, materials, works and services to be financed under the project jointly, or solely, by IDA
would be procured in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995 and as revised
in January 1996) and Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank As Executing Agency (August 1981).
Disbursements
3.7   PECDAR would be responsible for managing disbursements. Given the urgent nature of the
proposed project, the implementation period would be 48 months. Disbursements are expected to begin
on July 1, 1996 and be completed by December 31, 2000, which will be the closing date. The proposed
WBG Trust Fund credit of US$40 million equivalent would be disbursed against the main categories
stated below as follows: i) 100 percent of total costs in years 1 and 2 and 75 percent in years 3 and 4
for Works: (US$25.6 million); ii) 100 percent of total costs for Vehicles, Equipment, Materials, Supplies
and Spares (US$1.3 million); iii) 100 percent of the total costs for Technical Assistance, Consultant



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project                                          13
Services, Studies and Training (US$8.8 million); iv) 100 percent of total costs in years 1 and 2 and 75
percent in years 3 and 4 for Incremental Operating Expenses (US$0.3 million); v) Unallocated (US$4.0
million).LA' The very high disbursement percentages are justified by the current financial constraints in
WBG. Details of disbursement categories and estimated quantity disbursements are presented in Annex
15.
3.8   Special Account. In order to facilitate quick disbursements, a Special Account (SA) would be
established by MOF who would also sign the initial disbursement request. However, PECDAR would
be designated by MOF to manage and operate the SA, and subsequent replenishment requests and
withdrawal applications would be signed by PECDAR and submitted to IDA through MOF.
3.9   The authorized allocations, representing about three to four months of project expenditures, would
be US$4.0 million. However, the initial deposit to the SA would be limited to US$2.0 million until
disbursements have reached about 20 percent of amount of the Credit. The SA would be maintained in
US Dollars in a reputable commercial bank, and be operated on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
On a monthly basis, or when one-half of the SA deposit has been utilized, replenishment requests will
be submitted to IDA with the necessary supporting documentation including monthly bank statement of
funds withdrawn from the SA. Disbursements would be fully documented, except for disbursements
against contracts for works and goods valued below US$250,000, US$100,000 for consulting contracts
with firms and US$50,000 for consulting contracts with individuals and for works carried out under force
account for which the supporting documentation would be retained for subsequent review by local IDA
supervisory staff or visiting IDA supervision missions.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.10   As noted above (para 3.3), the proceeds of the Credit would be passed on through MOF to
PECDAR who would be responsible for overall project monitoring, accounting, reporting and auditing
(para. 3.4 and Annex 12).
3.11   The following accounting and auditing arrangements are agreed: i) Project Accounts: that
consolidated accounts would be maintained by PECDAR on a basis satisfactory to IDA for all components
of the project; and ii) Audits: the project accounts, including the Special Account and all disbursements
against SOEs would be audited separately and on an annual basis by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA and submitted annually to IDA no later than six months after the end of each financial year. In
order to ensure maintenance of annual accounts on a satisfactory basis and timely completion of final
accounts, PECDAR would be staffed with suitably qualified accountants si,pported by appropriate
technical assistance.
3.12   The following arrangements for proivct monitoring and reporting are agreed: that PECDAR acting
in close consultation with MLG, MOF, Tv 91/MOW and the SMs. would provide, on a quarterly basis,
consolidated reports on project implemen. jtnn progress covering: (i, projections for project financing
and implementation; (ii) the status of project finances, procurement of consulting services, goods and
works; (iii) training; (iv) incremental operating expenses and vehicles and equipment components; (v)
statements of income and expenditure for the current and previous quarters; and (vi) monthly cash flow
projections for the next two quarters. Any major variances from budget would be explained and
corrective measures proposed. These reports would be submitted to IDA within one month of the end
of the relevant quarter, and would provide the basis for monitoring the progress of the project and for
discussions at the formal joint half-yearly reviews (and a formal mid-term review) by IDA and IMSC (see
18/   Costs are net of taxes and duties.



14                                                  Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
para. 3.5). The half-yearly reviews would be conducted no later than March 31 and September 30 every
year. In preparation for these reviews, PECDAR would submit annual and mid-year project progress
reports to IDA no later than four weeks before the date of the half-yearly joint reviews.
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Economic Analysis'9
4.1    The economic evaluation reviewed the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement component
of the project (Part A) representing 79 percent of total project cost (US$35.6 million). The three sub-
components of Part A have been analyzed separately:  (a) the Rehabilitation and Improvement
Sub-Program (US$29.9 million); (b) the Maintenance Sub-Program (US$7.5 million); and (c) the
Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program (US$5.2 million).
4.2    Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-Program. Given the substantial size of the originally
identified Palestinian investment program (numerous sub-projects estimated at US$600 million) and the
limited available time, data and financial resources, it was critical to establish a feasible system for
screening proposed projects to derive a refined list. The strategy adopted was to establish a hierarchy
of filters through which proposals would have to pass in order to be accepted and an efficient process by
which to carry out the review (See Annex 18 for a detailed discussion of the economic analysis
methodology and results). Thefirstfilter was the state of preparation of the projects; only projects that
would be ready for implementation within 18 months were considered. The secondfilter was to eliminate
projects already being considered by other donors. These filters reduced the size of the proposed
program to be evaluated by the Bank to US$260 million--still considerably beyond available resources.
The next filter was an acceptable economic rate of return (ERR). The minimum ERR was set at
14 percent; the cost of capital for WBG is estimated by the Country Economist at 10 percent, however,
given the large number of projects proposed, it was desirable to raise the hurdle to ensure that the highest
value cohort would be considered for further analyses. The investments under the Rehabilitation and
Improvement sub-component which represents 60 percent of total project cost thus have been selected to
ensure a minimum of 14 percent ERR.
4.3    The analysis involved the development and testing of three analytic approaches (for water,
wastewater and roads) that enabled rapid classification and testing of proposals. For water supply,
investments were divided into three categories: (a) creation or expansion of water network; (b) pumps
and reservoirs; and (c) rehabilitation/upgrading of network. The benefits assessed were: (i) provision
of piped water; (ii) increase in property value; (iii) increased provision of water; and (iv) reduction of
water losses through the network. Out of the 50 proposed projects, 39, costing a total of US$15.8
million met the threshold condition of 14 percent ERR. Sensitivity analyses indicate that increased project
costs of 10 percent would reduce the number of acceptable projects by 2, costing US$1.2 million.
Decreasing at the same time project benefits by 10 percent would eliminate 8 projects, totalling US$2.8
million. Wastewater investments in treatment plants, sewage networks and pumping stations provide
benefits in terms of health improvements, positive environmental impact and increases in property values.
Household willingness to pay for direct benefits and public revenues for spill-over benefits necessary to
ensure the threshold 14 percent ERR, estimated as up to a ceiling of US$36 per capita, per year, were
used to filter project proposals. Ten out of 32 proposed projects costing US$23.5 million met this
criterion. Sensitivity analysis revealed that a 20 percent increase in project costs and a 5 percent increase
19/    The analysis included far more projects than could be accomrnodated in the project. These projects
would be included in the program for support by donors.



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project                                                15
in O&M costs would eliminate two projects Road investments would improve surface conditions, road
safety and reduce time spent on transpuit bienefits were quantified in terms of vehicle user savings and
time savings. Projects were classified into categories according to the kind of road and the type of work
to be done. For each suh-project, it was estimated based on its cost, the average daily traffic and
standard conditions related to the project category, whether it met the 14 percent minimum ERR. Ninety-
eight of 110 projects costing US$108 million met the economic criterion. Sensitivity analysis revealed
that decreasing the average daily traffic by 10 percent and increasing project costs by the same proportion
would eliminate 2 projects. Reducing traffic growth from 4 to 0 peicent would eliminate 6 projects.
4.4    Other criteria used in assessing projects which passed the ERR test included: projects should
respond to community social priorities; they should be confirmed by local authorities as being of high
priority to them; and, institutional arrangements for operation and maintenance should be in place.
Special attention should be given to geographical distribution equity; technical feasibility and consistency
with related projects should be assured, environmental impact and health factors should be assessed as
positive. These projects selected under the Project also passed these tests. The methodology and
approaches used in this analysis is being refined and will be transferred to MLG and PECDAR for iteir
use during the project.
4.5    Maintenance Sub-Program. The maintenance program has not identified specific assets to be
maintained, therefore no rate of return could be estimated for this component. However, experience in
other Bank/IDA projects indicates that maintenance activities have high rates of return and a major impact
both on the quality of services provided and municipal finance through savings. An effective maintenance
program is currently functioning in Nazareth (an Arab town in the north of Israel). This town was taken
as an example to show some of the benefits to be expected from maintenance programs. The replacement
of meters there contribute savings of approximately US$26,000 per year, which represents 7 percent of
current revenues from water bills. Effectively maintaining the road network postpones investment and
saves US$12,000 on average per kilometer in present value terms, for the municipality.
4.6    Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program.!' The upgrading of 48 ha. in Gaza City and Rafah will
improve the provision of needed basic services for approximately 3,000 lower-income households.
Benefits have been quantified in terms of increases in property values as a result of the improved
conditions and services. These increases average 18 percent of the value of a typical apartment (from
US$20,700 to US$24,450). The resulting rate of return on upgrading is calculated at 20 percent.
Sensitivity analyses indicate that with 10 percent reduction in property values in target and comparable
areas, the ERR would be reduced to 14 percent; with 10 percent increase in capital investment costs, the
ERR would be 15 percent.
4.7    Validation of Analysis. While the analysis revealed that most sub-projects yielded acceptable
rates of return, the quality of some of the data on which the analysis is based leaves much to be desired.
It is thus proposed to incorporate validation surveys as an integral and ongoing part of the project
implementation and review process (see Annexes 14 and 18 for details). Data from these surveys will
provide vital inputs into future project selection.
20/    The analysis included far more projects than could be accommodated in the project. These projects
would be included in the program for support by donors.



16                                                  Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
Benefits and Risks
4.8    Benefits. The project would have a particularly positive impact on employment: an estimated
3,500 man-years of direct employment in construction would be created. Further, by helping to improve
the delivery of essential infrastructural services, the project would provide other significant and
widespread social and economic benefits. Specifically, it would help: improve public health and
education services; protect and conserve sensitive and limited water resources, and reduce the losses due
to network inadequacies and inefficient utility operations; make a start in improving roads, reducing
traffic congestion, travel time, and vehicle operating costs; and improve the general quality of life for
broad segments of the population as well as overall economic efficiencies. The project would also help
rationalize and strengthen both central and local institutions; mobilize local initiative and resources
reducing dependence on central budgets and authorities; improve resource allocation; open up
opportunities for private sector participation and development through consulting, contracting, and
manufacturing inputs; and help lay the foundation for sustainable development. The benefits would
accrue to virtually all citizens of WBG and particularly to low income families.
4.9    Risks. MIDP faces considerable risks, many of which cannot be avoided. These risks fall into
two broad categories: (a) Political and Institutional Risks: the success of the project requires stability
in WBG, steady progress in the bilateral negotiations, maturation of internal political processes. It also
requires the successful completion of local elections and the careful crafting of central and local
government incentive structures so that they are positively and mutually supportive. Instability and/or
Israeli/Palestinian negotiation delays could significantly slow activities which depend on their outcome
and increase project costs and the wrong incentive structure could make efficient LG reform impossible.
(b) Managerial and Technical Risks: Effective and timely implementation of the project requires the
early consideration by the EAPC of measures to strengthen the SMs, MLG and the other implementation
agencies, and the early rationalization of PECDAR. Effective and timely implementation also requires
strengthening the capacity of the local consulting and contracting industry. Political and institutional risks
would be significant and difficult to manage. On the other hand, success in providing tangible benefits
to the Palestinian population could be expected to reinforce the momentum for peace. Institutional Risks
would be minimized through dialogue, negotiation, extensive review of options, and careful attention to
the structuring of incentives at all levels. Managerial and technical risks would be minimized by
allocating as much responsibility as possible to municipalities and supporting these institutions with
competent local and foreign consultants, and by rationalizing and strengthening PECDAR. Risks would
also be minimized by establishing effective project screening and selection mechanisms in MLG, SMs
and PECDAR, and by employing competent local and foreign consultants to review and help weed out
badly, conceived or designed sub-projects. Furthermore, the project has been specifically designed to
permit flexibility during implementation including the restructuring of key components, if necessary.
Finally, risks would be minimized by establishing appropriate monitoring, reporting and control
mechanisms, intensive on-ground IDA review and support.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1    During project preparation, agreements were reached on the general scope, content and operating
modalities of the project, and the criteria for sub-project selection. The following were discussed and
agreed during appraisal: (i) the relative balance between overall program and project elements; (ii) the
specific sub-projects to be include i in the first two years of the project; (iii) the draft letter of sector
policy; (iv) the policy matrices and Actic.-, F;ans for LG development, including MLG and SM capacity
building; (v) the terms of reference for T'A studies and training programs to strengthen MLG and SMs;
(vi) the general project and program implerneatation arrangements; and (vii) the steps to rationalize PECDAR.



Municipal Infrastructure Development Project                                          17
5.2   The following agreements and understandings were reached at negotiations: (i) the Letter of
Sector Policy (para. 3.3 and Annex 4); (ii) the detailed implementation arrangements including: the
establishment of IMSC, Technical Committees, Working Groups and PCC; the role of PECDAR; and
the Implementation Agreements (paras. 3.2 - 3.5 and Annex 12); (iii) the monitoring indicators (para.
3.5 and Annex 14); (iv) the detailed schedule for the first year of the program and project (para. 2.4 and
Annex 12); (v) details of procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting requirements including
the establishment and operation of Special Account (paras. 3.6 - 3.12); (vi) the scope, content and
modalities of the formal half-yearly and mid-term joint project and program review (paras. 3.5 and 3.12);
and (vii) the actions to and detailed timetable for rationalizing PECDAR (para. 3.5).
5.3    The execution of Subsidiary and Implementation Agreements satisfactory to IDA would be
conditions of effectiveness (para. 3.5).






Annex 1
Page I of 8
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Infrastructure Sector Background, Issues and Strategy
1.    The MIDP focuses on rehabilitation and improvement in two infrastructure sectors: Roads, and
Water, Wastewater and Sanitation (the latter in the West Bank only). It also focuses on the trans-sectoral
problems of poor, under-serviced neighborhoods. A brief description of the sectors including issues and
proposed strategies is presented below. The accompanying matrices summarize key issues and strategies.
The key themes are a history of financial and managerial neglect, poor service delivery and weak
institutions.
Roads
(a) Regional Roads and Road Transport
2.    Background: The regional roads system of WBG consists of about 2000 km of roads in the West
Bank and 168 km in the Gaza strip. Except for short sections serving Israeli settlers, the network is
generally in poor condition. Since 1967, there has only been limited extension to the network, and the
ratio of road length to population is lower than any country in the region, except Egypt. Congestion is
therefore a considerable problem, and is particularly severe on the Gaza network and in the
JeninlNablus/Ramallah/AI Bireh/Jerusalem/Hebron corridor.  On the West Bank, the main network
serving the major population centers--largely constructed before 1967--is about 700 km in length. It
consists of two main north-south corridors'' and secondary east-west corridors. The rest of the secondary
network, about 500 km in total length, is also oriented north-south and east-west. In the Gaza Strip the
main road system consists of a 45 km north-south corridor connecting the four larger cities (Gaza,
Jaballia, Khan Younis, and Rafah), and to Israel in the north and Egypt in the south. It is severely
deteriorated but still passable for traffic. There is also an old coastal road that could potentially serve
through traffic, but it needs to be reconstructed.  The wisdom of using it for this purpose is
environmentally questionable however.
3.    Large sections of the regional roads system in the West Bank remain under the control of the
Israeli Civil Administration. On the limited segments now under the jurisdiction of the EAPC, there is
a problem of responsibility, with MOT/MOW and PECDAR all claiming some jurisdiction. Also, chronic
under-expenditure on maintenance has left key sections serving Palestinian communities in a poor
condition, with pavements in some places on the brink of disintegration. Annual expenditure on roads
during occupation is not known with any precision. It may have been as high as US$15 million per year,
but a significant portion of it was spent on roads leading to Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza
or for resurfacing of main roads in the vicinity of such settlements. Some was also spent on municipal
roads, leaving little for maintenance of the rest of the regional network. In 1995 a modest start was made
under ERP to reconstruct selected high priority sections of the network. Also, PECDAR have recently
undertaken studies of significant sections of the main network in the West Bank and the Gaza strip with
a view to rehabilitation.
1/    The eastern north-south corridor going through the Jordan Valley is mainly used by Israeli traffic.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 8
4.     Road transport is the only passenger mode currently available in WBG, and is completely
privatized. It consists of buses; shared taxis; and unlicensed private cars, mini-vans and pick-ups which
provide services mainly in remote areas and densely populated centers as licensed vehicles cannot
adequately meet the demand. Due to the underdevelopment of the formal financial sector, term financing
was not generally available to bus companies, placing a constraint on fleet renewal and proper
maintenance. Also, due to ease of entry and lax regulation, competition from unlicensed cars further
reduced the revenues and contributed to their current weak financial position.
5.     Freight is also exclusively carried by privately-owned trucking companies, and about 20,000
trucks of various sizes are in operation. Trucking enterprises face financial problems similar to those
facing bus companies. Most of the trucking fleet is old and costly to operate. The industry is not well
organized and lacks modern terminal facilities. The system is bedeviled by delays at border crossings
caused primarily by Israeli security concerns. These delays have become much worse over the last year
because of repeated and prolonged closures.  Also, time-consuming inspection and transhipment
procedures have been introduced at the Gaza border crossings, greatly adding to delay, the financial
burdens of transport enterprises and the cost of goods. These measures have had a crippling impact on
the Gaza economy. Recent efforts have been made by Israeli authorities to streamline procedures and
a new transhipment point has been built in Carney. Despite this, the impact on Gaza remains very
severe.
6.     Issues and Strategy: The key sector issues are: lack of clear Palestinian jurisdiction over large
segments of the regional road network; the state of and rate of deterioration of the existing road network;
congestion on key sections of the network, with associated air pollution, travel time losses and high
vehicle operating costs; poor accessibility to villages; lack of attention to system maintenance; lack of
clearly defined responsibility for the road system; lack of institutional capacity and capability to plan,
manage and maintain the road network; repeated closures by Israeli authorities; and costly and time-
consuming inspection and transhipment procedures.
7.     The short-term strategy is to: (a) clarify the roles and responsibilities of the ministries and
agencies active in the sector; (b) develop and begin implementation of a 4-year road stabilization program
to establish regular routine and periodic maintenance and to eliminate the road maintenance backlog;
(c) undertake studies to determine the appropriate structure for planning, managing and regulating
transport subsectors and, on the basis of these, establish the nucleus of a road administration; (d) develop
and launch training programs to enhance the capacity of local consultants to undertake highway planning
and design, and contractors to undertake road maintenance and rehabilitation; (e) undertake studies to
improve the passenger and freight transport system, including measures to increase mobility between the
West Bank and Gaza; and (f) improving the inspection and transhipment procedures at the Israel/Gaza
checkpoints.
8.     The medium/long-term strategy is to: (a) establish institutions to develop effective sector policy
and planning, and to manage and adequately fund preservation of the road system assets; (b) develop the
Gaza port to reduce dependence on the road system for transport of goods; and (c) implement projects
to improve inter-urban passenger and freight transport, including movements between the West Bank and
Gaza by surface and air transport.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 8
(b) Municipal and Village Roads
9.     Background:  No reliable data exist on the extent or condition of the urban road network as a
whole. However, the data available and limited visual inspections indicate that municipal road systems
have been severely neglected. Roads are in a generally poor state of repair and are often without
adequate basic drainage. With respect to villages, accessibility is a critical problem for many, particularly
on the West Bank; and the internal village road system has been especially neglected. The roads system
in the refugee camps also pose difficult problems because, surface conditions aside, reservations are often
inadequate and drainage highly problematic in some areas. Drainage and sewage problems are
particularly acute in Gaza, where many roads, including some of the major roads serving Gaza City
(Salah Edin and Zaitoon roads) are often impassable during the rainy season (December to March) due
to flooding by a combination of sewage and surface water--as much as one meter deep in some areas.
Furthermore, the inadequate or haphazard provision of other infrastructural services (water, electricity,
telephone, etc.) complicate matters and make rehabilitation and improvement an expensive and time-
consuming proposition.  Recognizing these problems, a few murnicipalities are beginning to take
corrective action. MOPIC ha& recently completed a structure plan for Gaza city, and plans are being
prepared for many others.
10.   Issues and strategy   The key issues are: inadequate network development; inadequate
accessibility, particularly to WLst Bank .ilages and in refugee camps; traffic congestion and resulting
long travel times; neglect of traffic management; high accident rates; poor drainage, and consequent
frequent flooding and flood damage; poor surface conditions, due partially to neglect of maintenance;
lack of investment programming and attention to cost recovery; anc weak municipal capacity and
capability to plan, finance, operate and maintain the system.
11.   The short-term strategy is to: (a) focus initially, but not exclusively, on improving conditions
in the largest and most densely populated municipalities; (b) provide villages with improved access to the
main and regional road systems and expand the current local road network, where justified; (c) develop
urban structure and strategic traffic and transport plans for the major municipalities, including realistic
and economically justified investment programming; (d) implement traffic management sclbemes to relieve
congestion, and to improve flows and safety at major traffic bottlenecks through improved signalization,
channelization, road-signage and marking; and (e) develop and implement a coordinated program to
rehabilitate, improve and systematically maintain existing main and secondary municipal roads and drains
in municipalities and villages, with special emphasis on maintenance by contract, job creation and
community participation.
12.   The medium/long-term strategy is to: (a) extend the improvement program to all municipalities
and to the larger villages; (b) widen the program to upgrade and extend the village access road network;
and (c) to promote LG reform and capacity building and to thereby improve service delivery levels,
investment programming and cost recovery (see Annex 2).
Water Supply, Wastewater and Sanitation
13.   Background: Almost all the urban population and perhaps 70% of the rural population is served
with piped drinking water, primarily from wells, supplemented in some cases by supplies from
MEKOROT, the Israeli Water Company. Service quality is poor; and while water quality generally
meets drinking water standards, the quantity available (about 60 I/cap/day) is inadequate to meet the basic
needs of the population. Water is expensive to pump from deep aquifers and to purchase from the Israeli
system. Efficiency is low (unaccounted for water exceeds 50% of supply) and cost recovery is poor
(30-40 % of bills unpaid)--both indicative of weak management and inadequate maintenance. Also, many



Annex I
Page 4 of 8
villages lack a piped water supply; few municipalities in the West Bank have adequate sources of water;
and over drawal of the Gaza aquifer threatens the resource and has contributed to severe water quality
problems. Furthermore, fragmentation is great: water and wastewater services are currently provided
by numerous separate local governments (municipalities and village councils) and by two regional utilities.
With respect to wastewater, less than half the urban area is sewered, and untreated or inadequately treated
wastewater presents serious health and environmental risks. A few municipalities have wastewater
collection systems but only about 60% of houses are connected. Moreover, the few treatment plants that
exist have generally failed to operate as designed. In most cases, sewage is discharged untreated into
wadis; irrigation re-use schemes remain unutilized; septic tanks & cesspools are infrequently desludged;
and septage disposal is haphazard.
14.    The extreme water resources limitations facing Palestinian authorities, among the most serious
in the world today, demand a much better level of water resources management. The shared nature of
the three aquifers underlying the West Bank necessitates agreement with the Israeli authorities on the
management of the resources--the subject of future negotiations and the source of considerable
uncertainty. At the heart of the problem of resource management has been a fragmented institutional
structure which did not provide an adequate framework or incentives. However, the recent establishment
of the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) and the anticipated passage of legislation empowering the PWA
has provided the basis for developing a sound policy and regulatory framework for the sector. It should
also help rationalize the sector and contribute to improving service delivery.  A very recent
PWA-sponsored development is the proposal to consolidate the technical management of the individual
water utilities in Gaza under the aegis of management consultants supported on the proposed,
Bank-supported Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza (see SAR para 1.12). It is hoped that this
initiative will lead over time to the full consolidation of the individual municipal water utilities.
15.   Issues and Strategy: The key sector issues are:  improving water resource management--
particularly management and regulation of the highly sensitive Gaza aquifer; improving water supply
delivery systems; improving coverage, quality and reliability in municipalities and villages; preserving
scarce resources by reducing the incidence of leakage in existing networks; improving environmental
health conditions through improving wastewater collection, treatment and disposal; improving wastewater
resource management through increased recycling; improving the overall efficiency of the utilities--
currently fragmented among many individual municipalities--through consolidation, commercialization
and privatization; and protecting Palestinian water rights.
16.    The short-termn strategy is to: (a) improve water quality and availability; collection, treatment,
reuse and overall system efficiency; protect public health; (b) finalize negotiations with Israeli authorities
on sources, uses and rights in order to secure sustainable long-term supplies; (c) focus on investments
to rehabilitate deteriorated systems and to extend these systems where necessary and feasible, particularly
to villages; (d) utilize foreign technical assistance to begin restructuring the Gaza utilities and help
improve system efficiency; (e) consolidate the individual Gaza utilities over time into a single regional
utility operating on a viable commercial basis; and (f) to strengthen the PWA's ability to plan, manage,
regulate and make policy for the sector. The medium/long-term strategy is to: (a) enter into broader
regional agreements to preserve resources and supplies; (b) extend safe and reliable services to all
villages; (c) consolidate the individual West Bank utilities into about 3 regional utilities operating on a
commercial basis; and (d) further strengthen PWA.
Neighborhood Upgrading
17.    Background: As a result of decades of neglect and steady population growth, many urban areas
in WBG lack basic social and physical infrastructure (including, inter alia, roads, water supply, drainage,



Annex 1
Page 5 of 8
sewerage, garbage collection services, and play areas, kindergartens, community meeting rooms, clinics,
etc.) This backlog is particularly acute in the older and poorer urban neighborhoods and the refugee
camps; and, of course, the problems are generally far worse in Gaza where there are over 50 lower-
income neighborhoods within the six largest municipalities which merit intervention.   These
neighborhoods account for about 60% of municipal areas and 78% of the urban population in Gaza.
Densities average about 450 persons per ha.  Some 27 neighborhoods totalling 467 ha. and
accommodating about 25-30,000 households have stable, secure tenure and would be suitable for
immediate upgrading. The balance, totalling about 250 ha., also badly need services but here tenure is
problematic.
18.   Issues and Strategy: The most critical issues are the following: extremely poor general service
and amenity provision; severe lack of maintenance of the few services that do exist; severe lack of
investment and maintenance funding; inability of LG institutions to plan, finance and manage service
provision; and inability of many (but not all) low-income households in these neighborhoods to bear the
full cost of service provision.
19.   The short-term strategy is to focus on Gaza and the older central areas of West Bank cities.
Initially surveys would be done to establish and rank neighborhoods in order of combined poverty and
lack of services using criteria agreed with MLG and municipalities. Based on this, a package of
upgrading services would be developed in consultation with communities, a system of community
participation defined, and a program of rehabilitation implemented with the assistance of donors. To the
extent possible works would be undertaken using labor intensive methods, and local NGOs would be
asked to help manage program definition and implementation. The medium/long-term strategy is to
develop the program into a sustainable one by stressing cost recovery, and extending the prograin to all
municipalities.
2/    The discussion here focuses on Gaza where the problems are most severe. But the problems may be
equally bad, if not as concentrated, in some of the older residential and commercial areas of West Bank
cities.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
Table 1: Roads Sector Strategy
....................
Regional Roads
Significant sections of   Selectively design and implement   Begin implementing        Rehabilitate key
network severely      schemes to improve key sections and    national plan; develop    sections of system;
deteriorated; some     relieve congestion in worst locations;    institutions to manage an    help support program
sections congested.    develop and begin implementing a      adequately funded national  of maintenance by
selective 4-year program of routine and   O&M program on a      contract.
periodic maintenance to eliminate the  contract basis.
backlog of road rehabilitation; begin
preparing national highway
development strategy and plan.
Competing              Clarify roles and responsibility for  Develop the road          None.
jurisdictions, and lack   system, planning, finance and      management &
of institutional       maintenance; begin to build           maintenance organization
capacity for strategic    institutional capacity, particularly for  into a Highway Authority;
planning, management   planning, management and              establish reliable
and finance.           maintenance.                          mechanism to fund system
Border crossings       Enter into dialogue with Israeli      Develop alternative       None.
delays & closures.     authorities on measures to expedite   modes, particularly sea
inspections, and greater access to Egypt  and air transport, and
through Rafab crossing.               access printc to Egypt.
Municipal Roads
Significant sections of   Focus on major regional population  Develop and begin        Provide support for
network severely       centers; undertake programs to       implementing structure     rehabilitation and
deteriorated; high     rehabilitate, iioprove and systematically   plans for all       improvement in
urban transport costs    maintain existing roads and drains;  municipalities; develop  selected WBG
and travel times; poor   remove major traffic bottlenecks    systematic O&M            municipalities,
safety; high incidence   through better traffic planning,    programmii.g; establish   focussing on the
of flooding,           signalization, channelization, road   mechanisms to adequately   more rural ones;
particularly in Gaza;    marking and road signs; develop     fund road system          provide support for
many areas without     structure plans for largest           development and           development of
adequate services.     municipalities.                       maintenance.              maintenance program
ii SMs.
Strengthening          In SM, undertake management audit of   Expand program to all    Provide support to a
municipal capacity to    existing institutional arrangements,  municipalities,         process of
plan, ftnance, manage   systems and practices, and prepare and  drawing on the lessons of   institutional, fiscal,
and maintain urban     implement municipal investment and    SMs.                      financial and
services and facilities    development plans; develop system of                        managerial reform in
(including roads).     national investment programming for                             SMs.
municipalities.
Village Roads
Accessibility a        Focus on improving access, while      Develop and implement     Provide support first
significant problem on   selectively improving internal roads;  national village road  stage of access roads
West Bank; internal    develop a selective program of routine   improvement and        program.
roads deteriorated.    and periodic maintenance;             maintenance program.;
develop structure plans
for the larger Village
Councils.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 8
Table 2: Water, Wastewater and Sanitation Sector Strategy
National/Regional Issues
Poor water resource    Strengthen PWA's planning and managerial  Implement national    None.
management--         capacity; develop coherent water resource    program of water
particularly the     management policies, including waste water  resource management;
sensitive Gaza aquifer; reuse policy; continue bilateral and regional  continue regional
continuing negotiations negotiations to secure and protect long-term   negotiations to protect
over shared aquifers.  sources and rights,                   long-term sources and
rights.
Municipal Systems
Weak water supply    Develop and implement program of priority   Extend and consolidate Provide support for
service delivery     water network rehabilitation in West Bank;   short-term       limited system
systems; high system   expand piped water and sewerage to unserves rehabilitation and  improvements in West
losses; weak sewerage  areas; implement program of priority  improvement program. Bank municipalities, and
collection, treatment   network and treatment plant rehabilitation;                for maintenance
and disposal; poor    review technical and financial reasons for                   programming in West
systems maintenance;  poor operation of existing treatment plants                  Bank SMs.
weak cost recovery,   and develop wastewater reuse strategy;
Weak institutional,    In Gaza, contract with Management/     Consolidate individual  Provide general support
financial and        Operational Consultants to help develop and  West Bank utilities    to SMs to help build
regulatory framework   maintain system on regional basis and  into 3-4 regional    capacity, including
for improving the    improve billing and collection; explore  utilities operating on   improving management,
management of water,  possibility of consolidating individual Gaza   viable commercial  finance, accounting and
sewerage and waste    utilities into regional one operating on viable  basis.      maintenance systems.
water services,      commercial basis; in SMs, lay basis for long-
term institutional reform; undertake review
of institutional and financial problems and
~~~~~~options.
Village Systems
Lack of safe, adequate Extent piped water to currently unserved  Develop and       Provide support to
and reliable supplies   areas; implement program of priority  implement national    selected West Bank
sewage network and treatment plant      village water and    villages.
rehabilitation and improvement, installing  wastewater
new  systems where necessary and        improvement program
environmentally feasible.
3/      NB. Gaza being assisted under separate Bank-supported project. PWA being assisted through Bank sector
work.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
Table 3: Neighborhood Upgrading Strategy
Iss .   atoHr    IaeyMdm/og
Extreme backlog of      Focus initially on poorest and least  Based on short-term    Provide support for 7
investment in           serviced Gaza neighborhoods, and the  program experience,    sub-projects in Gaza and
neighborhood services   older central areas in West Bank     develop and implement   Rafah municipalities.
and amenities,          cities; focus also on areas where    national upgrading
particularly in Gaza; lack  tenure not problematic; develop and    program, tackling
of maintenance of       test/implement selective program     difficult tenure issues.
existing services,      including basic integrated "package"
of services and amenities in
consultation with communities.
Low affordability in    Attempt only limited cost recovery in  Implement cost recovery  Support review of cost
many low income         low income neighborhoods at this     and sustainability     recovery possibilities and
neighborhoods.          stage, but seek community            measures, including    development of a
contribution; develop cost recovery    limited subsidies where  sustainable program.
strategy bearing in mind ability of  essential.
households to pay .
Lack of municipal       Develop and test capacity building   Expand program system- Provide support for
capacity to plan, finance   program in SMs.                  wide                    capacity building
and manage neighborhood                                                              program in 5 SMs in
services and amenities.                                                             Gaza and West Bank



Annex 2
Page I of 12
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Governent Sector
Background, Issues and Strategies
Organization of the Annex
1.     The annex is arranged in three sections. The first gives a brief background and status report on
the sector; the second reviews the issues that are currently critical to address in order to improve the
performance of the local government system in delivering services, and the elements of the strategies that
are being considered to address these issues. The third section focuses on the Bank's support and how
this support relates to the issues and strategies to be pursued.
Background
2.     Currently, the local government system of WBG consists of municipalities, which operate under
laws having their origins in Egyptian law (Gaza) and Jordanian law (West Bank);'' village councils; and
villages under muchtars. There is a notional sense of districts centered around major municipalities, but
these geographical areas have no administrative status. There are 31 designated municipalities, 26 in the
West Bank and 5 in Gaza. Village councils number 103 and villages over 400. Before the advent of the
EAPC, the operations of local governments were loosely overseen and supported by the Civil
Administration of the Israeli Defense Forces (CA) which was primarily concerned with military/security
objectives. However, there is now a transitional situation in which the CA has essentially withdrawn and
the EAPC is creating a central government system to govern the country including managing a local
government system.
3.     The Ministry of Local Governrment (MLG) is assigned responsibility for the local governrment
system and has been actively engaged in trying to define the structure oi local government, the
institutional arrangements and the key organizations at the various levels, and the roles and functions at
these levels. In addition, MLG also must establish a viable role for itself within this system and in
relation to the other central government ministries. (Annex 12, Appendix A provides a brief outline and
an organizational chart of the Mliris.rx.)
4.     The dominant entities in the local government system are the municipalities, which have well-
established service dtlivery and regulatory functions, including electricity, water supply and sanitation,
solid waste management, local roads, libraries, parks and recreation, fire abatement, slaughter houses,
markets, land use planning and development and building approvaLls, and business and professional
licensing. Village councils, which in some cases have populations and areas that compare to existing
municipalities, are the next lower ievel of local government. They enjov a representative government
structure but lack the broad range of functions and revenue raising optiors of municipalities. Recently,
1/ Fortunately, there are commonalties in the roots of these laws as the two were originally derived from British
occupation law. Although differences have developed in the accounting and practices between West Bank and
Gaza municipalities, these are for the most part immaterial to the overall discussion and will not be elabor4ted
unless the difference has a bearing on the strategy of local govemment development.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 12
three village councils have been upgraded to become municipalities in order to provide them with
revenues and representation that they did not previously enjoy. Villages without councils are the most
numerous type of local government but are quite small-sized and are administered by appointed muchtars.
In reality, until transferred to the EAPC, even municipal and village council governments in WBG could
only be considered marginally representative at best, as no elections had been held for several electoral
cycles in about two decades and all mayors and council members who had taken office since the onset
of occupation had been appointed by the Israelis.
5.     Local government services in WBG are inadequate. Municipalities are unable to respond
effectively to these circumstances for a variety of reasons: limited managerial capacity, resulting in lower
revenues and higher expenses than feasible; inadequate systems and financing for proper operations and
maintenance of existing assets; and an ad hoc system for capital development based on donor financing
through multiple windows and mechanisms.
6.     There are several examples of the managerial problems of the municipalities: Jenin's new
leadership has requested a quick response to help establish an administrative structure for the
municipality; Gaza City has only recently, and with difficulty, staffed its Technical Department; Hebron
is over NIS 5 million in arrears on its collection of solid waste management fees. Most of the political
and administrative leadership is relatively new, and after municipal elections, currently scheduled for
June/July 1996, new councillors and mayors - elected for the first time in decades - will take office. Of
the current 31 designated municipalities, only one (Nablus) is currently regarded as being in relatively
good managerial shape.
7.     With few exceptions, municipalities in WBG provide electricity distribution (Jericho does not)
and water supply services. Both revenues and expenditures are dominated by these services and the cash
surpluses from their operations are used to fund deficits in other municipal operations. In the five selected
municipalities involved in this proposed project, for example, (see Table 1) electricity and water revenues
in 1994 were between 69 percent and 88 percent of total current revenues and between 61 percent and
76 percent of total current expenditures. Electricity commands the greater proportion of these resources -
84 percent of these two services' revenues and 77 percent of their expenditures. It is the net revenues
from these services that the municipalities consider to be of greatest financial importance. About 10
percent of total current revenue appear to be derived from this net contribution, equivalent to about half
of all other current revenues. These other recurrent revenues include transfers from the central
government of shared revenues - a presently small yield from gasoline taxes in the West Bank and
property taxes collected on behalf of West Bank municipalities (Gaza collected their own property taxes
even under Israeli occupation). Together with municipal-administered taxes, fees and service charges,
these revenues make up the remaining 20 percent of recurrent revenues. Property taxes are the single
largest component (with wide variation by municipality, about 25 percent) of this group. Building permit
fees are currently a significant second as in some municipalities (for example, Gaza City and Ramallah
in the West Bank) there has been a building boom. Most of the remaining 17 or so items provide very
small yields.
8.     The need to address the structure, sources and administration of local government financing in
the near term is urgent. To date MOF projections of public sector financing (consumption, i.e., recurrent
expenditures 17 percent of GDP in 1996, falling to 16.7 percent for 1997 and 1998; investment, 7.5, 8.0
and 8.7 percent for 1996-98) do not adequately take into account the needs of local governments. Current
Bank estimates, which do not include village councils, villages or the proposed provinces, suggest that
municipalities' recurrent expenditures will be about 19 percent of projected central government recurrent
expenditures; development expenditure requirements, about 24 percent of total development expenditures;



Annex 2
Page 3 of 12
and, overall, at least one fifth of public expenditures will be made at the local levels over the next two
to three years.
Table 1: Selected Municipalities - Revenue and Expenditure Summary, 1994
_111 r gm W _~
Revenue Sources, %
Electric & Water            84        69        88       72        79        80
Electricity only          74        58        71       63        63        6
Other Current Rev.          16        31        12       28        21        20
Total Current Revenue      100       C10       10C      100      Ti0        10C
Expenditures, %
Electric & Water            75        61        67       76        72        72
Electricity only          61        49        51       67        67        60
Total Expenditures         I0        100       10C      100       C10    1WE
Net E&W/Other CR,           65        25       204      -11        26        51
Issues and Strategies
9.    The issues that need to be addressed in improving the performance of the local government
system fall into three categories: the legal and institutional framework which determines the structure,
authority, responsibilities, roles and rules of the local government system; management of local
government services and functions, including the arrangements for provision and the structure and
organization of delivery, as well as operations and maintenance; andfinancing of local governments, their
services and their investments.
10.   It is clear that several issues are interrelated and that some issues cut across the categories used
for organizing this section. As a result the strategies also need to be interrelated and cross-cutting. Where
necessary, there are cross-references that identify these linkages.
Legal and Institutional Framework
11.   The issues regarding the development of the local government system in WBG are, in one
important respect, unique. The more usual situation that countries face is the existence of a well-
established central government structure and the need to create functioning local ?overnments. In WBG,
municipal governments and village councils have been in operation over the past three decades and a
central government is just currently being created. In conventional circumstances, the role and
responsibility of central government and its agencies are already defined and operational, and reform of
central-local systems means some form of decentralization in which weak local entities would hope to
receive increased powers and respons;bilities. In WBG, currently weak central ministries are trying to
define their roles and authority and see the process as one of asserting controi over the pre-existing local
bodies. This situation is aggravated by the current circumstances in which the EAPC is not yet fully in
charge of the country, do not have the full complement of governing instruments, are dependent on
donors for all development expenditures and some recurrent support, and in which the donors frequently
make independent arrangements with local authorities



_ .... LaiyI0U%UIILY
Annex 2
Page 4 of 12
12.   The MLG has been considering a new local government structure and law to unify the legal
systems in operation. At present, it is not yet clear what will be the functions and degree of autonomy
of the local governments and the concomitant relationships between themselves and the central
government. Two versions of the potential new local government law have been drafted. One would
give the local governments a substantial amount of autonomy, building on the existing situation; the other
version is essentially a restatement of the old laws with heavy control retained at the center. MLG
appears to favor the principles of the former version, which are more likely to result in an effective and
efficient local government system. A new version of the law is to be drafted for presentation to the
Palestinian National Assembly, elected in January 1996, for its approval. This law would incorporate
the proposed new structure and would be the basis for local government elections to be held, perhaps,
by mid-1996.
The Proposed Intergovernmental System
13.   The framework for local governments that is currently being contemplated includes the following
types of local authorities: Provinces; Metropolitan Areas (in the cases of the Gaza City area, could also
be a province); Provincial Capitals; Municipalities; Village Councils; and, Local Committees. The
functions of these local governments would vary with the type. Provinces would, for example, ensure and
facilitate inter-jurisdictional responses to services with spillover effects beyond a single jurisdiction's
boundary; promote joint responses where economy of scale may improve the efficiency of service
delivery without reducing responsiveness; provide technical assistance on request; and directly assist local
committees and possibly some village councils. With regard to structure, the EAPC would like to create
a provincial government level based on the current geographical districts. The nine provinces (five in the
West Bank, four in Gaza) would be headed by Governors appointed by the President of the EAPC, and
their councils consist of the mayors and other representatives of the municipalities within them.
14.   The new law also is intended to strengthen the role of village councils and the representation of
the people at the village level by replacing muchtars with elected local committees. Promotion of local
committees to village councils, and village councils to municipalities would be based on population size
and proven competencies in handling their affairs. The list of functions assigned to each type of local
governmnent would be determined by the EAPC.
15.   Local governments would be authorized to levy specific taxes, service tariffs and charges and fees
sufficient to cover the cost of the functions assigned to them. Where appropriate taxes, charges and fees
are not available or efficiently managed at the local level, the EAPC may authorize the sharing of a
suitable central government tax such as the VAT and the gas tax with local governments on the basis of
an equitable formula. The EAPC would ensure the availability of supplementary capital financing, in the
form of grants or borrowing authority (and possibly even facility), to augment the development funds
local government are able to generate from their own resources.
16.   Local governments would have three types of accountability: to their residents for the efficiency,
quality and reliability of services and functions; to the source of financing for the agreed and proper use
of funds; and to the EAPC through its ministries, for the execution of government policy which they have
been entrusted with implementing.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 12
Central Government Roles and Responsibilities
17.    The role of central government is to be coordinated through MLG. The Ministry coordinates with
the technical ministries to establisli policy and guidelines with regard to the services and functions
assigned to local governments. Incorporated in these policies and guidelines would be input standards,
performance standards and performance indicators to ensure service quality, efficiency and reliability.
MLG also is responsible to assist local governments in understanding and developing their capacity to
fulfill their functions in accordance with these policies. MLG would ensure the monitoring and reporting
on the performance of municipalities. In addition, MLG would work with the Ministry of Finance to
develop intergovernmental transfer systems in keeping with this framework. Indeed, the most vital service
that the EAPC will ultimately provide to the local governments of WBG will be fiscal and financial
assistance. This will be discussed in further detail in the section on Finance, below.
18.   It is anticipated that the systems for making effective the relationships between the levels of
government will be established in stages over a period of three to five years. Roles and responsibilities
at the central government have not yet been fully established, and even where the assignment of roles
would suggest associated responsibilities, the mechanisms and information to make it possible to fulfill
those responsibilities are not yet in place. With reference to local government services in particular, data
on the status of assets, service delivery performance, and recurrent finances are in the process of
collection, to be supported by this proposed project. Investments in local service improvements -
rehabilitation, expansion and building of new facilities - are currently almost entirely donor financed, and
as many of the projects involve direct arrangements between the donors and the local governments, no
centralized source of information on local investment programs exists. Consequently, the central
government is not in a position to determine geographical and sectoral distributional allocation policies,
set realistic standards and targets for service performance, or establish appropriate monitoring systems.
19.   It is expected that the EAPC will eventually assume the traditional role of central government in
determining assignment of functions, financing arrangements, sector policy, distribution policy and
accountability arrangements. As central government, the EAPC is responsible for poverty reduction and
may utilize the comparative advantage of local government in provision of certain services of particular
benefit and importance to the poor, by channeling financing of those services to the poor through local
governments.
20.    Local governments will benefit from the existence of a well-functioning central government.
Capacities and performance at the municipal level, for example, varies widely and several municipalities
are looking forward to assistance and guidance from the central government. Some aspects of municipal
functions cannot be carried out without central government services. An important examnple is
development control; local governments in West Bank complain that illegal structures that, for example,
create traffic hazards, cannot be removed in the absence of a functioning Palestinian police force in the
area. Moreover, there are critical capacity building functions that the central government should manage
and facilitate.
Finance
21.    The considerable variation that exists in reported financial results (see Table 2) among the
selected municipalities are in part related to difference in accounting practices and standards in these
municipalities. These differences, however, do not disguise some of the real variations in circumstances
and performance between these municipalities. West Bank and Gaza Strip municipalities reflect in their
accounts, relative differences in incomes between those parts of the Palestinian jurisdiction. The least



Annex 2
Page 6 of 12
favored West Bank municipality in per capita resource terms, Hebron, is twice as well endowed as Gaza
City, the richer of the two Gaza Strip municipalities. However, these differences are out of proportion
with the differences in per capita incomes in the two areas (US$2,190 in West Bank and US$1,290 in
Gaza, in 1994) indicating the presence of other reasons for performance differences.
22.    Expenditure reporting show a number of apparent gaps in service categories in the Gaza
municipalities. It would appear that neither of the Gaza municipalities, for example, provide fire services;
however, even some of these gaps may be a result of poor accounting as Gaza City has library expenses
but apparently, no library staff. Gaza City, notedly, is the only municipality that appears to be losing
money on its electricity operations.
23.    The issues and related strategies of finance fall readily into two categories: local government
revenues and capital investment policy and programming.
Local Government Revenue
24.    The dependence on the net revenues from electricity and water supply services has important
implications for the financial future of municipalities. Weaknesses in the municipal accounting systems
(it is a cash accounting system; costs are not all properly allocated; expenditures not made - for example,
for maintenance, have positive effects on balances; depreciation is not accounted for) do not allow for
an accurate determination of financial position, especially of service delivery systems. Nevertheless, it
is clear that there is substantial weakness in the revenue base of municipalities that is somewhat, but
inadequately, mitigated by cash surpluses in the electricity and water services accounts.
25.    For sound economic and managerial reasons discussed earlier, it is proposed that electricity
distribution be taken over by one or more power utility(ies). Should these restructurings take place, severe
additional pressures will be brought to bear on municipal finances. Even if the municipalities become
owners of these utilities, an immediate decline in revenues from these sources is anticipated. First, net
profits would be reduced by sharper pricing and proper cost accounting. Second, it would be
inappropriate for the utilities to distribute all of there current profits to shareholders as they would need
retained earnings for future expansion.
26.   In addition to the need to replace revenues lost to municipalities by the reorganization of water
and electricity services, there are other indications of the need to improve local revenues. It is
appropriate, for example, that municipalities should fund O&M from their own resources, but this is
unlikely to occur until the overall revenue base of municipalities is strengthened. It will be necessary to
examine all aspects of recurrent financing, including charges for services, to ensure that they reflect
sound policies for cost recovery and demand management, and that any necessary subsidies are
transparent and targeted. Fees and taxes are critical components of the revenue structure that need to be
updated to ensure that they not only need traditionally appropriate criteria such as efficiency, buoyancy,
cost effectiveness and equity, but also are in keeping with overall fiscal policy objectives. While local
revenue structure and administration can and should be improved, it is clear that some fundamental
reforms will be necessary and these would probably include consideration of some form of shared taxes
or formula-based recurrent transfers.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 12
Capital Investment Policy and Programming
27.   The backlog of investment requirements in WBG, the unusual situation of establishing a central
government structure on top of an existing local governnent system, and the dominant role of donors in
investment financing have together created unique problems for capital investment policy and
programming. First, project proposals may originate from a number of sources: the municipalities,
PECDAR, the MLG, the EAPC President and the several donors. Second, some of these participants may
play multiple roles in the project preparation process - among them, originators, designers, evaluators,
financiers and, ultimately implementation. Third, several different criteria are used by each and the arrays
may or may not include common elements, with different weights given to the various elements. Fourth,
as noted earlier, the MOF is frequently not involved and no EAPC ministry including MLG, has all the
information on what possible investments may be in the pipeline. Consultation and exchange of
information between the donors, and especially the coordination and screening roles by MLG and
PECDAR have helped significantly in reducing overlaps and conflicts. Nevertheless, it is necessary to
move towards a more orderly system to achieve greater efficiency in planning and implementation.
28.   Clarifying, streamlining and strengthening appropriate roles for MLG and PECDAR and more
integral involvement of the MOF in the process of project evaluation and approval is a critical area of
solution. Donors will have important roles to play in assisting this restructuring and capacity building
exercise.
29.   Estimates of development requirements (para. 8 above) in the short run also appear conservative.
Pre-screened proposals presented to the Bank for funding of local development projects under this project
in only three sectors (water and waste water for West Bank only, and roads) on an annualized basis
exceed the above estimates of total annual investment requirements for municipalities by 44 percent.
Given the priorities agreed between the donors and the EAPC, local government investment requirements
may be as much as 40 percent of projected total development expenditures.
30.   Donors have committed to continue to support development expenditures for the next five years;
however, substantial investments will be needed at the local level well into the future. It is unlikely that
local governments will be able to meet the funding requirements entirely from their own resources. The
central government will need to ensure the establishment of long-term financing mechanisms, including
from private sources. In addition, however, the EAPC will need to establish grant transfer mechanisms
in support of local investments in order that its policies with regard to basic services availability and
quality, growth and equity may be met.
31.   The MOF is aware of, and concerned about these issues. Commitments to the IMF and other
donors to balance the central government recurrent budget in 1996 and to generate a 1 % of GDP surplus
by FY98 preclude immediate absorption of local government requirements. However, the Ministry
supports a strategy of gradually assuming greater responsibility for inter-governmental finance in the
context of related reforms and improvements to the overall system of local government structure,
management and finance.
Management
32.   The management issues and strategies in WBG with regard to local government encompass the
provision and delivery of services (referred to as program management) and the operations and
maintenance of assets.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 12
Program Management
33.   The coverage, reliability and quality of most local government services are unsatisfactory in WBG
and below the levels of countries of similar per capita incomes. The substantial investment program
proposed to the donors is an indication that much of these problems is due to the backlog that resulted
from almost three decades of occupation. Beyond those investment needs, however, are issues of
structure, management and finance.
34.   Illustrations of these issues were noted in the background to this section. Other aspects will be
discussed under the Finance section, the most significant of which concerns the proposal to establish
utilities to manage the delivery of electricity and water supply services. Economies of scale in networks
and management and technical staffing, as well as more focused and professional attention to these
services suggest that organizing service delivery on this basis is likely to improve the performance of
these services. Increased efficiency .nd reliability in technical performance, better financial management
and lower costs to consumers are likely in the short run. In the medium to longer tenn, privatization also
becomes a viable option, thereby reducing demand on public investment resources. Nevertheless,
important decisions about the struu-ture of these utilities have yet to be determined; these include the
number of utilities and their ownership (partial or full ownership of all of these utilities by the
municipalities within their jurisdiction is being contemplated) and, of particular importance in this context,
their relationship to the municipalities. These questions are being examined under a Bank-supported
proposed project, the Electricity Sector Investment and Management Project and the recently negotiated
Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza.
35.    Addressing these issues will require a complex strategy which incorporates a mix of structural
reforms to facilitate and appropriately regulate private participation in service delivery and revision and
strengthening of government structures, staffing, systems andprocesses. Training workshop packages need
to be developed that are targeted to different levels of the municipal system. An urgent package is that
for incoming mayors and councillors. Packages would need to be prepared for the chief administrator and
heads of departments that emphasize both managing their departments and working within the overall
management system. Conducting workshops for new administrations should be a priority. Newly elected
mayors and councillors also will need guidance in establishing or strengthening its organizations and
agencies. In that context, it will be helpful to have documentation and dissemination of local best practice
and for exchanges of experiences between local governments to be facilitated.
36.    Among the particular systems that need to be designed include standardized accounting systems,
performance standards, operating options and structures, proper costing and pricing of services;
developing and implementing collection strategies to complement service improvement programs; cost
reduction programs, including community participation; designing the corporatizing and different forms
of privatizing of services, including concessions, management contracts, competition for service areas and
the use of NGOs; and establishing appropriate regulatory systems for privatized services.
37.   Integral to the improvement in management performance is to relate service improvement to
improved financial performance. Performance targets agreed upon would need to include financial results.
Particular emphasis should be put on strategies and programs to reduce the arrears in payments of
services. Experience elsewhere has indicated that success in linking improved service delivery and
improved willingness to pay requires greater public awareness, understanding and participation in
prioritizing and monitoring the program of service improvement. It is recognized in WBG that the issues
of improvements in local government services will not be resolved without the understanding and
participation of the people. Municipal residents will make a substantial financial contribution to the



Annex 2
Page 9 of 12
overall program. Substantial arrears will need to be collected, and ultimately improved services will have
to be paid for. At the same time efficiency gains and cost saving may be achieved through the
participation of communities in service delivery. However, experience has indicated that people are
unwilling to pay for services that do not satisfy their priorities and needs and in which they do not have
voluntary input or voice. As a result it is critical that the people in local jurisdictions be aware of the
programs for service improvements, the nature and timing of the impact on them and be reminded of the
arrival of benefits when they occur.
Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
38.   In the absence of adequate revenues, local governments substantially neglect maintenance
expenditures. For example, unaccounted for water due to leakage and illegal connections is typically in
excess of 45 percent, and water is acknowledged to be among the most critical commodities in this water-
scarce region. As a rough measure of orders of magnitude, in one typical municipality, the total aznount
budgeted for maintenance was only 3 percent of total recurrent budget. Actual expenditure, although a
different absolute amount, also was 3 percent of actual overall recurrent expenditures. Broad guidelines
would suggest that annual maintenance expenditures should be approximately 3 percent of the value of
the assets being maintained. As it is reasonable to assume that the value of municipalities assets would
be substantially more than a single year's recurrent expenditure, it is clear that the financing of
maintenance is significantly underfunded. Further, discussions with municipalities indicate that
expenditure under the category of maintenance often is rehabilitation works occasioned by the absence
of regular and preventative maintenance.
39.   There are issues of management as well as finance. Municipalities do not all have the technical
and managerial expertise to plan and implement effective and efficient O&M programs. A number of
steps need to be taken to put an appropriate system in place. Municipalities need to inventory their assets
as a first step in planning a systematic program of maintenance. Standards for the expected performance
of these assets and a maintenance schedule to ensure those performance standards should be established;
existing engineering standards would be a useful starting point for devising appropriate systems for WBG.
The management, staffing, structure and processes required to ensure an effective system should be
defined and developed and the personnel trained. A strategy for carrying out the O&M program needs
to be determined - the fundamental decision for each set of assets is whether to contract out the O&M
service or perform it in house. In the former case, qualification systems, bidding documents and
management contracts with performance standards and indicators would need to be prepared. In the latter
instance, structures, staffing and performance standards and indicators should be prepared and hiring and
training carried out.
Bank Support for Local Government Reform and Capacity Building
40.    The several issues that have been outlined in this annex indicate the critical and inter-related
problems that need to be confronted. On the basis of discussions of these issues and strategies agreed
between the Bank mission and MLG and MOF, it is proposed that these be addressed by a program of
technical assistance organized according to the three major sets of issues: the legal and administrative
framework; management; andfinance. The program would involve six related components which would
be overseen by three EAPC Technical Committees and reflects the strategies outlined in the above
sections.



Annex 2
Page 10 of 12
Supporting the Reform of the Legal and Institutional Framework
41.   The assistance proposed is for the most immediate need and requires only a short duration. It is
nevertheless critical. The objectives are to: preserve and expand where appropriate, legitimate roles and
functions of existing municipalities; define compatible roles and functions for provinces; establish
appropriate roles, functions and rules for the other entities in the local government system, including a
classification and assignment system; assign proper financial authority to accompany responsibilities;
establish appropriate accountability systems; and to strengthen the capacity of the overall system to carry
out its new functions.
42.   The component, Local Government Legal and Institutional Framework would support a brief
study to assist in elaborating on the framework for local governments in WBG as outlined above (paras.
13 to 20). The results of this study would be an input into the new local government law which the
government proposes to prepare soon after the election of new Palestinian National Council. The Legal
and Institutional Technical Committee (LITC) chaired by MLG and including representatives of MOF,
Ministry of the Interior, municipalities and local councils would be responsible for overseeing this study.
The study would begin about mid-March, 1996 and would be completed by mid-April, 1996;
Supporting the Strengthening of the Local Government Finance System
43.   Two components provide the elements of this support. The first addresses local government
revenues, while the second deals with capital investment policy and programming. The Fiscal and
Financial Technical Committee (FTC) chaired by MOF and including the Ministry of Planning, MLG,
the technical ministries and PECDAR as well as representatives of the local governments would oversee
these components.
44.   The first component would be directly overseen by a sub-committee of FTC chaired by MOF and
including, MLG and local government representatives. The Local Government Revenue Structure and
Strategy Study would review alternatives and prepare an implementation plan to improve local
government revenues (paras. 24 to 26). This work, which would be closely related to the Program
Management and the Capital Investment Policy and Programming efforts (see below), would examine all
aspects of local recurrent financing, including charges for services, fees and taxes and recommend a
structure and system that would be efficient, cost effective, buoyant and equitable. At the request of the
MOF, this study would be accelerated, starting in parallel with the Program Management Study, with the
intention of implementing new revenue structures in a year. The program would include instruments to
monitor their impact in order to recommend any modification in implementation.
45.   The second component is the Local Government Capital Investment Policy and Programming.
This major effort would rationalize information flows on investment proposals and programs, assist in
the development and application of tools to assess and prioritize investments and develop resource
allocation systems to reflect government sectoral, geographical and equity policies (paras. 27 to 31). The
work would be related closely to the studies on local government revenue and program management. The
studies under this component would establish performance indicators and performance standards for
services, national service standards, guidelines on input standards and planning and design procedures
for services, and the timeframe within which national service standards targets should be achieved. This
project would initiate this work by putting its resources through the MOF and transferring the analytical
tools used in project selection to MLG and PECDAR. Within a year arrangement would be made to have
the other donor projects for local government flowing through the same system. During the third year
the remaining aspects of the work would be completed.



Annex 2
Page 11 of 12
Supporting Management Reformn and Development
46.   Three components would be provided for this support, all overseen by the Managerial Technical
Committee (MTC) chaired by MLG and including representatives of MOF, the technical ministries and
local governments. The first component, Local Government Program Management and Training,
would address the problems discussed that have resulted in poorly performing local government services
(paras. 33 to 37). This program would design structural, managerial and financial reforms and training
at the local level as well as strengthening MLG itself. Work would begin on initiation of the project and
continue throughout its implementation.
47.   The second  component, Local Government Operations and  Maintenance  (O&M)
Progranuning, (paras. 38 and 39) would pilot the development of an operations and maintenance
program in the five selected municipalities (Gaza City, Hebron, Jenin, Nablus and Rafah) and expand the
program to the remaining local governments based on lessons learned, with the assistance of other donors.
The pilot phase would be initiated at the start of the project and the expansion phase would begin a year
later.
48.   The third component is a public information and education plan to complement and directly
support the objectives and other activities of this program. The Local Government Public Information
Program would provide mechanisms for feedback from the community on priorities, strategies and the
perceived performance of the program (para. 36). It will begin with the start of the project and continue
throughout.



Annex 2
Page 12 of 12
Table 2: Selected Municipalltes: Revenue and Expenditure Detais
1994 Actual
(all values in NIS)
Hebron        Jenin        Nablus         Gaza          Ralah       Sub-Total
Revenue Sources
Services Revenues
Governrnent Revenue                     1,470.444      589,404      2,385,795     5.422,042       175,622    10,043,307
Municipal Revenue                       2,707.215     2,135,929     3.426.186     9.815,703     1.993,245    20,078.278
Miscellaneous                           1,741,151      837,186      1.381,507     1,257,377                   5,217,221
Total Services Revenues                   5,918.810     3,562,519     7,193,488    16,495,122     2,168.867    35,338,806
Water & Electricity Revenues
Water                                   3.585,403     1.293,923     9.750,751     5,799,630     1,634,824    22.064,531
Electricity                            27.585,760     6,574.154    41,046,236    37,253,757     6,478.466   118.938.373
Total Water & Elect Revenues             31,171,162     7,868,077    50,796,987    43,053.387     8,113.290   141,002,903
Total Current Revenues                   37.089,972    11,430,596    57,990,475    59,548.509    10,282,157   176,341,709
Development Revenues                      4.035,057     2,750,910     5,390,000     7,817,126     1,344,734    21,337,827
Property Owers' Paricipation                     0             0             0             0             0             0
Total Revenues                           41,125 ,029    14 ,181506    63,380,475    67.365,635    11,626,S91   197,679,536
Other Resources
Deposits/Advance Re-payment               608,622     1.090,462     5,230.750            0      1.198,305     8,128.139
Currency Trading                               0             0      7.567.505            0             0      7,567,505
Total Other Resources                      608,622      1,090,462    12,798,255            0       .1998,305    15,695,644
Beginning Balance                           175,656      151,926      4,608,259            0             0     4,935,841
Total Resources                          41,909.307    15.423,894    80.786,989    67,365.635    12,825,196   218,311,021
Exoenditures
Services Expenditures
Salaries:
General Administrative                  1,496,766      465.401       585,010     3,182.804       797,799     6.527,780
Accounting/Legal                        1.361,675      316.998     2,556,856             0       151,163     4.386,692
Health Workers                          1.340,542     1,007,593    2,225.987     5,537,664     1,385,212    11.4%9.998
Engineering Workers                     1.163,670      298,716     1,831.234     1,353.000       522,103     5.168.723
Fire Workers                             291,144       337,444     1,171.601             0             0      1,800.189
Library Workers                          177.914       110,824       339,906             0            0        628,644
Mechanical Workers                       736,252       380,002     1.580.394       936,680       123,376     3,756,704
Total Salaries                           6.567,964    2,916.978    10.290,988    11,010.148     2.979.653    33,765.731
Other Expenses:
General Admninistrative                  650,426       318,378     2,879.606       509,114             0     4.357.524
Accounting/LegaJ                               0             0             0             0             0             0
Health                                   478.756       158.557       235,625     1.380,597             0     2,253,535
Engineering                             1,061,567      602,734     2,934,177       261,589             0     4,860.067
Fire                                      19.772        25,356        42,517             0             0        87,645
Library                                   23.448       26.919        67,467       349,125             0       466,959
Mechanical                               538,673       322,098     1,293,989       491,052             0     2,645,812
Total Other Expenditures                 2,772,643     1,454,042    7.453,381      2,991,477            0    14,671,543
Total Services Expenditures               9,340,607     4,371,020    17,744,369    14,001,625     2,979,653    48,437,274
Electricity & Water
Water, Salaries                          407.377       356,322     2,288,627       896.480                   3,948,806
Water, Other                           4,538.206      1,021,333    6,142,175     4,748,220
Subtotal. Water                          4.945,583     1,377.655     8.430,802     5,644,700      510.171
Electricity, Salaries                    827,598       517,243     2,577,405       873,933                   4,796,179
Electricity, Other                    21,545,777     5,069,076    25,117,764    38,379.726                  90.112,343
Subtotal. Electricity                  22,373,375     5,586.319    27,695,169    39,253,659     7.028,506
Total, Electricity h Water               27,318,958     6,963,974    36,125,971    44,898.359     7,538.677   122.453,939
Total Current Expenditures               36.659,565    11,334,994    53,870,340    58,899,984    10.518,330   171,283,213
Development Expenditures                  4.183,055     3,296,606    10,840,165     9,777.756     1,474,430    29,572,012
Repaymernt of Loans                              0             0             0             0             0             0
Total Expenditures                       40,842,620    14.631,600    64,710,505    68,677,740    11.992,760   200,855,225
Other Uses
Deposits Returns/Advance Payments        611,828       783,732     7,610.992             0     1,058,383    10,064,935
Currency Trading                               0             0     3,313,930             0             0     3,313,930
Total Uses                               41,454,448    15.415,332    75.635,427    68,677,740    13.051,143   214.234,090
Surplus/Deficit (Revenues - Expenditures)   282,409      (450.094)   (1.330,030)   (1.312,105)     (365,8691   (3,175,689
Surplus/Deficit (Resources - Uses)         454,859         8,562      5,151,562    (1.312,105)     (225.947)    4,076,931



Annex 3
Page I of 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Five Selected Municipalities, Background, Issues and Strategy
Introduction
1.    Most elements of the strategy for assisting the Local Government Sector (Annex 2) propose to
initiate reforms by working with the five selected municipalities (Hebron, Jenin, Nablus in the West Bank
and Gaza City and Rafah in the Gaza Strip) and subsequently extending the lessons learned and solutions
developed to the system as a whole. As a result, work on improving poorly performing local government
services, the development of an operations and maintenance program, and a public information and
education plan would be piloted in these municipalities.  This strategy is appropriate as these
municipalities are representative of most of the strengths and weaknesses in the current system in WBG.
In addition to these broad strategic initiatives, however, particular assistance will be provided to address
issues specific to each municipality. The primary characteristics and particularly urgent requirements of
these five municipalities are summarized below.
Gaza
2.    Gaza municipality has a substantial number of talented, well-educated professionals in key
managerial positions. It has been able to take advantage of assistance from several sources to upgrade
the quality of municipal planning and management. With the help of three consultants provided by the
Palestinian Welfare Association, the city has been able to develop procedures to improve the identification
and collection of delinquent accounts; to reform and upgrade the quality of the budget process; to improve
procedures for internal audits and to design a new internal audit manual; and to create a new personnel
manual and redesign many of the forms and procedures used in the hiring, evaluation and promotion of
staff.
3.    The World Bank is currently funding a project by Arthur Anderson to restructure and computerize
Gaza's municipal accounts. This initiative will facilitate the move to accrual accounting, better match
revenues with expenditures, and improve the integration of more accurate cost data into the budget.
4.    The municipality has begun to assess its training needs and to put together a staff development
program. Several of its management improvement efforts, such as the drafting of a handbook on
personnel policy, can serve as an example of best practice for other municipalities.
5.    Although substantial progress has been made to date, difficult questions of implementation remain
on many of these issues. Funding for consultants from the Palestinian Welfare Association will run out
soon, and the project to standardize municipal financial accounts has encountered significant delays.
Many important systems, such as those for the planning and design of infrastructure projects, are needed.
In addition, the current personnel policies has limitations that constrain the ability of the managers to best
attract and utilize staff.
6.     Specific assistance is proposed to be provided to Gaza City to continue to support the ongoing
management and accounting improvement programs. To address the personnel issues, assistance will be
provided to review current policies and recommend adjustments. Finally, support for upgrading computer



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
systems and relevant training to utilize GIS software to upgrade municipal planning and the design of
infrastructure projects will be included.
Hebron
7.     The professional qualifications of municipal staff in Hebron are generally strong, particularly in
the engineering and technical fields.  Some preliminary work is currently being funded by the
municipality to computerize its financial accounts. The municipality is also funding a study to re-design
its current organizational structures to improve their efficiency and effectiveness. This study will involve
a detailed assessment of the work of each department and its interaction with other units, and it will seek
savings through eliminating redundancies, streamlining operations, optimizing the span of managerial
control and reducing the amount of paperwork. Internal controls appear to be functioning in a generally
effective fashion, and there are no ghost workers or other manifestations of chronically weak systems for
establishment management and control.
8.     However, many systems, such as those for financial management, are in need of major upgrades.
(Currently there is no municipal charter of accounts, for example.) The personnel system also needs to
be upgraded. Recruitment appears to be taking place in a meritocratic fashion, but procedures for per-
formance monitoring and evaluation need to be upgraded and made more transparent.
9.     The most urgent needs of the municipality is for specialized technical support for the design of
infrastructure systems such as sewage treatment plants, and for the preparation of structure plan and a
strategic planning system to guide development planning and control.
10.    The specific support to Hebron would include ensuring the continuation and completion of
ongoing reform initiatives. In addition, resources would be provided to allow Hebron to draw on a pool
of technical expertise on an as-needed, when-needed basis. Finally, a team of consultants to assist in the
preparation of a structure plan and a strategic planning system would be provided.
Jenin
11.   Jenin has a capable city manager and some talented technical staff.  Unfortunately, the
municipality lags behind many otherF in the development of efficient and effect:ve administrative systems.
In virtually all areas, ranging from organizational structure and design to financial management to
personnel management, major upgrades in the quality of municipal management will be necessary.
12.    Three areas require particularly rapid action. In terms of municipal planning, it is likely that the
size of the city will increase rapidly over the next two to three years as several outlying villages are
incorporated into the municipality. Currently, there is no comprehensive plan for expanding municipal
services to cope with this increase. The development of an appropriate plan that is carefully costed and
linked to a medium-term financial framework will be absolutely essential.
13.    Second, there is a need for a major upgrade and computerization of municipal financial systems.
More aggressive effort in the area of cost recovery is necessary, and the budget process needs to be
upgraded and based upon more accurate cost data. It is likely that considerable corruption currently
exists within the municipality, so expenditure controls must be reviewed and capabilities for internal and
external audit must be upgraded.
14.   The current personnel system is in disarray. Procedures for establishment management are weak



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
or non-existent, resulting in per capita employment levels that are among the highest in the West Bank
and Gaza. (Unfortunately, these numbers are likely to reflect the presence of considerable numbers of
ghost workers.) There is no routinized system for recruitment, performance evaluation and promotion.
An estimated 100 employees, or roughly one-third of the municipal workforce, are currently occupying
positions for which they have had no previous training or experience. Current personnel policies also
constrain staffing options.
15.    Addressing personnel issues are absolutely critical in Jenin. Technical assistance is proposed to
urgently assist in reviewing policies, instruments and procedures, designing an effective management and
operating structure and to plan and execute a recruitment program. Because Jenin may undergo a major
expansion in the next few years as surrounding villages are incorporated into the municipality, there is
a need for a comprehensive planning process that can lay out development priorities, identify
infrastructure requirements, and prepare an investment program and strategy. Technical assistance in this
area is a critical priority, as is the provision of GIS hardware, software and training.
Nablus
16.   Nablus is one of the best organized and managed municipalities on the West Bank and Gaza. It
is currently receiving assistance from Arthur Anderson & Co. under a World Bank financed project to
upgrade and computerize its municipal accounts. Other practices, such as the regular compilation and
dissemination of financial reports to line mangers and the decentralization of some accounting functions
to individual departments, serve as local examples of best practice and should be disseminated to other
settings.
17.    Nablus has also implemented some innovative programs in the area of receiving stakeholder
feedback, including holding regular sessions in which a rotating committee of three city council members
listens to citizen complaints. The complaint is written up on a standardized form and addressed to the
head of the relevant municipal department, who is required to respond. With modest local modifications,
this practice should also be disseminated to other communities.
18.   Considerable challenges remain, however, to fully bring the quality of Nablus's administration
up to existing best practice in many parts of the world. The work to upgrade the quality of its municipal
accounts has revealed a number of serious weaknesses, including the lack of a charter of accounts; in-
adequate systems for planning and forecasting expenditures and linking them to the budget, and a failure
to integrate accurate cost data into the budget process. Training in cost accounting is a top priority.
There is also a critical need to establish an internal audit unit and to ensure that the downstream
implications of capital projects are reflected in the budget.
19.   The personnel system is functioning fairly well, but policies constrain recruitment and retention
of sufficient qualified staff. The Palestinian Welfare Organization is sponsoring some consulting work
by the firm CCC to upgrade the quality of technical management. However, the most significant problem
that Nablus is experiencing is in strategic investment planning that prioritize between competing demands.
20.   Personnel policy and management in Nablus needs to be improved and technical assistance for
this purpose is proposed. Support also is to be provided for consultants to assist in the preparation of
a strategic investment program for the municipality.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
Rafah
21.   Rafah has dedicated and motivated staff in several key positions. Its municipal plan, developed
in the late 1980s, is still relevant for the city's needs. Rafah has received donor assistance in upgrading
the quality of its administration in several areas; the EU and UNDP, for example, have been heavily
engaged in improving the management of water, sewerage and solid waste collection.
22.   However, in comparison with other municipalities in the West Bank and Gaza, Rafah's
management systems are relatively underdeveloped and will require significant upgrading across the
board. Currently, only Rafah's personnel and salary accounts are computerized. One of the top priorities
will be to put in an integrated and computerized financial management system. All budgeting currently
takes place by hand, and there is no regular system for monitoring expenditures and disseminating
financial reports to line managers on a regular basis. There is a need to move away from incremental
budgeting and to integrate more accurate cost data into the budget. There is also a need to track revenues
and link them to expenditures, for significant cross-subsidies exist between the Electricity and Water
Departments and the other departments.
23.    Rafah's systems for personnel management will also need to be upgraded. Recruitment appears
to be based upon merit, with posted job descriptions and clearly defined hiring criteria. However, no
systematic procedures exist for monitoring and evaluating performance. The pay system needs to be
regularized and monitized to reduce the number of special allowances, and manpower audits are needed
to identify staff excesses and shortages is critical areas.
24.   Particular attention must be devoted to the "nuts and bolts" institutional issues that are hampering
cost recovery. For example, there is a need for better metering of municipal wells to monitor the loss
in water supply (which is currently estimated at 40%, with about 10-15 % coming through unauthorized
or illegal connections.
25.   Rafah's broad based need for assistance will make it a primary beneficiary from the piloting of
improvement programs and reforms referred to in the Introduction section of this annex. In addition,
access to a pool of technical expertise with regard to water systems management and support for a review
of personnel policies and practices is also proposed.



Annex 4
Page I of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Letter of Sector Policy
.tW.'5~~~~~~iou
Palestinian National Authority                                    aI l                 I 
Ministry of Local Government    1                                          At              &jg
April 26, 1996
Mr. Odin Knudsen,
Resident Representative,
World Bank Resident Mission,
West Bank & Gaza
Dear Sir,
Subiect: The 1 oal (Government Develonment Policv of the FRecutite Anthnritv
of the Palestinian Council
The Palestinian people have taken a major step forward on the road towards our
objective of a Palestinian state, with the receat successful completion of national elections.
We must now turn our attentions to consolidating our democracy in the stucture and
operations of government at the level at which it is closest to its citizens. For almost three
decades, local governments in West Bank and Gaza operated without the benefit of their own
central government. They have held together and provided services to our people under
limnitations of their authority and neglect of their needs. They have been important
historically and will be more so in the future. It is for these reasons that we have set in
motion a process to modemize and upgrade the local government system and to integrate that
system into the new national system.
I would like to inform you of the Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council's
(EAPC) policy with regard to this important aspect of our development program.
The EAPC will establish a local government system with levels with differing
functions based on status and capacities. The possible range of local governments being
considered include: provinces; metropolitan areas (which in the case of northern Gaza, may
also be a province); provincial capitals, municipalities; village councils; and, local
committees.
ln contrast with the recent past, local governments, especial'y at the level of
municipalities and above, will be granted the appropriate autonomy to carry out their
assigned functions through their elected officials. Consistent with this degree of autonomy,
local governments will bc authorized to levy specific taxes, service tariffs and charges and
fees and will have flexibility to establish personnel policies with regard to com pensation thet
they are able to afford and that are consistent with broad national guidelines. We will be put
in place systems that ensure that local governrments will be accountable: to their citizens for
erricient and reliable services at quality sEandards established by the EAPC through its
ministries; to the sources of financing for agreed and proper use of funds; and to the EAPC
for the execution of government policy that they have been entrusted witti implementing.
Gaz-Tel. 86644/864764,829184. Fag. 867509 A-W  It ,.U.- AYkT A( / A%L1 L / AIIAL I   ;
Jericho -Tel. 9922619 J9921261 .Fi 992124D s  NY Z -  S . s4YI r  /    TY'% * __)



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
The EAPC  will establisl financial alrematives for local governments that are
consistent with sound principles. However, it also is the policy of the PNA that to maintain
appropriatc financial discipline, local governments will not be allowed acccss to taxes, loans
or grants outside of himits and sources established by prior policy.
The Ministry of Local Govem-eat (,MLG) will coordinate the relationships of
central government with local governnents and  will represent Ehe interests of local
governments withirn the EAPC. The Ministry will coordinate with other ministries to
establish policy and guidelines with regard to the services and  nctions assigned to local
govemnments. MLG also is responsible to assist local governments in understanding and
developing their capacity to flulfill their functions in accordaace with these policies. M.ILG
would ensumr the moniroring and reporting on the performance of municipalities.
The basic principles of this poLicy will be incorporated into a new local government
law which also will unify local government operations under one law, replacing the separate
laws currently governing operations in the West Bank and Gaza. This law will be presented
to the Palestinian National Assembly before the clection of local govemment leaders; it is
intended that these elections would take place on the basis of this new law. In recognition of
the fact that this is an evolving policy, the law wiU provide a framework of principles, with
the operaTing details to be specified by subsequent regulations. The law also is intended to
strengthen the role of village councils and the representation of the people at the village level
by replacing muchtars with elected local committees.
As mrany of the policies necessary to give full effem to the EAPC's intentions require
structures, capacities and studies that are only now being built or caried out, the EAPC is
pleased that the World Bank will assist in estblishing a process and time table for their
implementation. We also are pseased that resources provided by the World l3ank under the
Municipal Infrastructure Dcvelopment Project (MIDP) will be utilized to support this
process. Wc fully endorse and welcome this project and intend to ensure its success. An
Interministerial Steering Committe and Working Committees has been established to
manage this process. The membership and termns of reference of these commiuees as well as
the timetable for their various outputs will be communicated to the World Bank separately.
Sincerely,
Jehad Hamdan
Director General
Ministry of Local Government
April 26, 1996



Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
VVEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Program and Project Description and Overall Output Targets
for the Project and Program
Program and Project Components
The following is a description of program and project components. Table I summarizes
expected program and project outputs, costs and beneficiaries.
Part A. Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement Component
I. Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-Program
The sub-program would help rehabilitate and/or improve high-priority infrastructure and
services. It would include the following components: a) Roads: i) Village Access and Internal
Roads; ii) Municipal Roads; and iii) Regional Roads; b) Water Suyply. Wastewater and
Sanitation--West Bank only: Village and Municipal Program: i) Water Networks, Systems and
Wells; and ii) Stormwater and Sewage Networks, Systems and Plants; c) Technical Assistance:
i) complete project preparation and bidding documents for the procurement of economically-
sized packages; ii) assist with bidding and bid evaluation; and iii) supervise project
implementation.
{I. Maintenance Sub-Program
The sub-program would support a 4-year program of routine and periodic maintenance by
contract. It would include the following components: a) Infrastructure Assets: i) Roads:
Village, Municipal and Regional Roads; and ii) Water, Wastewater and Sanitation--West Bank
only: Village and Municipal Systems; and b) Technical Assistance: i) complete program
preparation and bidding documents for the procurement of economically-sized packages; ii) assist
with bidding and bid evaluation; iii) supervise project implementation; and, iv) train village,
municipal and ministerial staff. (Further details are presented in Annex 6.)
III. Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program
The sub-program would help provide much needed basic infrastructure and services to several
lower-income communities in the Gaza Strip.'' The improvements, depending on the needs of
each area, would include: a) Infrastructure and Community Services: i) water reticulation
network repairs or extensions; ii) sidewalk and street paving repair, resurfacing, or new pavings;
iii) refuse collection bins and facilities; iv) sanitary sewer network repair or installation; v) storm
drainage improvements and flooding prevention; vi) street safety lighting repair or installation;
vii) improving or building playgrounds and parks and other essential community facilities; and
b) Technical Assistance: to: i) complete project preparation and bidding documents for the
1/    The project focusses on residential neighborhoods in Gaza but, in principle (funds permitting), could
include the older inner city commercial areas in the West Bank.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
procurement of economically-sized packages; ii) assist with bidding and bid evaluation; and iii)
supervise project implementation. (Further details are presented in Annex 7.)
Part B. Local Government Reform and Capacity Building Component
I. LG Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program
The sub-program would include support for a process of reform at the central and inter-
governmental levels.  It would include the establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Steering
Committee and three Technical Committees: (Legal and Institutional; Fiscal and Financial; and
Managerial), studies, meetings and workshops. These, in turn, would undertake the following
inter-related tasks and studies: a) LG Institutional Framework Review:  i) define relative
assignment of functions, financial authority and responsibilities, and systems of accountability;
and ii) revise the draft LG law; b) LG Revenue Structure and Strategy assist MLG, MOF and
the EAPC to: i) review current system; and ii) develop appropriate structures and strategies for
financing LG services, including user charges, taxes, shared taxes and transfers; c) LG Capital
Investment Polig and Programming: assist MLG, MOF, MOPIC and PECDAR to: i) assemble
current data on on-going projects; ii) rationalize investment decision-making; iii) establish
criteria for project selection and resource allocation; and iv) manage and monitor program
implementation; d) LG Program Management and Training: improve MLG's capacity to plan
and manage infrastructure and service improvement problems and to assist municipalities and
villages with these tasks; e) LG O&M Programming: assist MLG to develop a national program
based on the systems and procedure developed and experience gained in studies undertaken in
the SMs (see "11" below); and J) LG Public Information Programming: develop a program to
see community inputs and inform the public on problems, plans and accomplishment. (Further
details are presented in Annexes 2, 8 and 9.)
I1. SM Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program
This sub-program would support a similar process of reform (as above) at the level of the SMs.
The tasks and studies would basically be the same, but studies, etc., would be tailored to the
specific local situation and specific operational needs. The sub-program would also include
support for the establishment of the local Steering Committees and three local Working Groups
(i) Legal and Institutional; ii) Fiscal and Financial; and iii) Managerial in each of the five SMs
to develop and support the implementation of reforms at this level. (Further details are
presented in Annexes 3, 8 and 10.)
Part C. Managerial Support & Incremental Operating Expenses Component
This component would provide support for project and program coordination, monitoring,
reporting, accounting, auditing and bulk procurement of essential goods. It would include the
following sub-components for MLG, SMs, MOT, MOW and PECDAR: a) Consultants'
Services: employment of consultants to assist MLG, PECDAR and other implementing agencies
with, inter alia: i) project planning and current and future project preparation (including other
IDA-supported projects), programming, financial management, accounting, monitoring and
reporting; ii) selective procurement of goods, works and services for co-financed sub-
components; and iii) auditing the project, the program and PECDAR itself; b) Training and
Studies: training courses, seminars, workshops and studies essekntial for establishing effective
planning, management and operating systems for ensuring effective project coordination at
central municipal and village levels (including other current and future IDA-supported projects);



Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
c) Incremental Operating Expenses: i) employment of essential incremental staff; ii) rental of
essential incremental office space; iii) utilities, including, inter alia, incremental water, power
and communications; and iv) vehicle operating and servicing costs for ensuring effective project
coordination at central municipal and village levels; and d) Vehicles. Eguipment. Materials.
Supplies and Spares: the purchase of essential vehicles, office equipment (including, inter alia,
computers, copying machines and facsimile machines), supplies (including inter alia, office and
training supplies), materials and spares (two-year supply) for MLG, SMs, MOT, MOW and
PECDAR, for ensuring effective project coordination at central municipal and village levels.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Table 1: Overall Output Targets for the Project and Program
.  ,  ,X,0.,.d, , , , ,, ,.   . . . .   . . .   . . . . .   . .   . . . ...   .,,-. . g
Part A
I.   Rehabilitation &
Improvement
a. Roads:
i,   Village Roads           2.8        30 km          90,000         16.0         85 km         175,000
ii.  Municipal Roads         7.         45 km         210,000         30.5        120 km         390,000
iii. Regional Roads          3.5        25 km       1,000,000         10.0         70 km       1,750,000
b. Water and Wastewater:
i.   Village Systems         4.0       50 km3'         80,000         14.7        180 km         130,000
ii.  Municipal Systems       3.0        50 km         200,000         20.3        340 km         630,000
11. Maintenance
i.   Villages                0            n.a.            n.a          2.3     5-10 vllgs        250,000
ii.  Municipalities          6.0      5 munis.        620,000         17.0       8 munis.      2,000,000
iii.  Regional Roads         0.8          n.a.            n.a.         3.4           n.a.            n.a.
III. Neighborhood Upgrading           4.7        48 ha          21,500         20.3        180 ha          60,000
Technical Assistance for Part A       3.4          n.a.            n.a.        13.4           n.a.            n.a.
Part B:
Local Govemment Reform  and           7.1       Reform       2,000,000          7.1        Reform       2,000,000
Capacity Building
Part C:
Project Management and                2.3          n.a.            n.a.         5.0           n.a.            n.a.
Incremental Operating Expenses
TOTAL       45.0                                     160.0
1/  Costs include contingencies but exclude all taxes and technical assistance. Numbers are rounded up.
2/  Estimates are approximate and include direct and indirect beneficiaries. Total cannot be summed as this would result in double counting.
3/  A unit of output for water and wastewater projects of kilometers of network is used as a general unit. It does not, however, reflect other possible
output measures such as storage capacity and/or household connections, etc.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maintenance Sub-Program
Introduction
1.    Almost three decades of inadequate resources have led to the neglect of maintenance of
infrastructure in WBG. Facing budget constraints and the requirement to balance budgets, municipalities
in WBG have over many years limited maintenance activities mainly to urgent expenditures to respond
to breakdowns or severe diminution of services. Annex 2 (Local Government Issues and Strategy) noted
the low level of expenditure compared to general norms. However, the problems of maintenance has not
been limited to finance; planning, programming and management of maintenance also have been
neglected. These systems now need to be rehabilitated in order that benefits from existing infrastructure
assets as well as the substantial new investments currently programmed, may be fully realized. This
component is designed to pilot the design and implementation of local infrastructure maintenance
programs in the selected municipalities and to extend the lessons into the structuring and implementation
of programs of maintenance for local infrastructure throughout WBG.
Developing and Managing the Program
2.    The selected municipalities (SMs) each will establish a working group (WG) led by the head of
the technical department, and including the heads of all infrastructure services in the municipalities. This
WG will be responsible for overseeing the design and implementation of this program (Annex 8). The
WG will be supported, as required, by consultants financed under this project.
3.    In preparing this component, it was recognized that the development and implementation of a
system for maintenance would be facilitated if a successful working model could be found that could
readily be adapted to the realities of the WBG situation. As a result, it was determined to assess whether
a model of a successful program may be identified within proximity to WBG. A model which met these
considerations was identified in the Arab-managed municipality of Nazareth, in Israel. This successful
program has been developed and implemented over the past five years, indicating that a long gestation
period for the implementation of a similar system in WBG should not be necessary. In addition, the
managers of the program in Nazareth expressed interest in assisting the WBG SMs by providing
information, experiences and expertise to municipalities. Costs associated with the assistance provided
by Nazareth will be supported by the project. The approach that has been adopted for the development
of the WBG maintenance program, therefore, has been based on the systems that are operating in
Nazareth. It is anticipated that differences in the current availability of data and resources, and the need
to begin to implement improvements as soon as possible, will result in adaptations of this model.
However, the principles which underlay its operations are expected to be robust.
4.    The process of developing the programs in the SMs will begin, after the formation of the WGs,
with a request to the Nazareth Mayor for that city to participate in assisting in this process. On
agreement on the modalities, each SM will hold a workshop with the Nazareth team to develop a broad
understanding of the situation of the SM by the Nazareth team and a similar understanding of the
principles, practices, data bases, analytic approaches, instruments and outcomes of the Nazareth model.
The objective of this workshop will be to provide the framework for a detailed design of the development
of the program. The SM will identify with the Nazareth team, the information and resource gaps that



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
would need to be filled, as well as critical contextual circumstances that would influence the design of
a system suitable to and sustainable by, the SM. The expertise and activities necessary to fill the gaps
and a tentative timetable for these activities would be an important output. Further inputs desired from
the Nazareth team also would be identified.
5.     The WG would initiate the preparation activities for the maintenance program on the basis of
the outcome of this workshop. In planning for this maintenance program, the WG will define modules
of activity that may be initiated as soon as possible and as these modules are prepared, with the assistance
of consultants financed under this project, they would be implemented, also with project financing.
Successive modules would be initiated until a complete program is prepared and implemented.
6.     To facilitate the objective of designing a national program based on the experiences of the SMs,
they would inform the Management Technical Committee at each stage of the development of the
program, of the process followed, its outcomes and the resulting plans. The Management Technical
Committee, with the help of their consultants, will synthesize the lessons learned into a set of guidelines
and training programs for the other municipalities and agencies responsible for maintenance of local
infrastructure. In addition, the Committee will oversee the preparation of a national program for
maintenance to be presented to donors, for their support.
7.     The Nazareth Model. The remainder of this annex outlines some indicative elements of this
Nazareth model. The following features underlay the design and operations of the Nazareth maintenance
program:
a) Maintenance planning   begins with infrastructure systems and project design and
implementation. As a result, standards and specifications that are developed for works are
influenced by their maintenance implications, and the operating life and performance
characteristics of components and materials are used to develop maintenance plans and
schedules. To ensure that standards are met, implementation is supervised by qualified
professional staff of the municipality.
b) Specific strategies are developed for preventative maintenance, which is designed to reduce
failures of systems components and resulting loss of services; and repairs, which address
failures that do occur.
c) Public and private sector roles are assigned according to the comparative advantages of each
and in such a manner as to reduce overall costs and improve performance.
d) Public education and responsiveness to the public is a critical and integral part of the
program.
8.     Examples of these principles applied to the services of water supply, wastewater disposal and
roads as described below:
Water
Design, Construction and Supervision: In order to have a balanced system that does not result
in undue pressures in some areas and partially filled pipes in others, both of which conditions
contribute to failures, Nazareth is divided into eight pressure zones based on topography and it



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
is planned to have a reservoir for each pressure zone. Three types of pipes and installation
methods for household connections are utilized depending on the terrain and soil conditions. In
mountainous areas, with rocky soils, steel pipes are used and covered in concrete; where soil
conditions are amenable, pipes are covered in plastic; and, in softer soils steel with asphalt cover
is installed.
Projects are supervised according to size; big projects are supervised by both consultants and
municipality staff, plus periodic inspections by the Chief Engineer. Welded pipes are x-rayed
and pressure tested; they must have been welded by a licensed welder. This procedure results
in an average life of 22-25 years.
Maintenance Planning: Contractors must provide as built drawings to the municipalities for
documentation purposes and all buildings must file plans with them so that the location of lines
are known. Programs of protection or replacement are planned for pipes, depending on the
conditions. Plans for replacements also are coordinated with road upgrading. Structure plans
are prepared and updated regularly. Annual reviews determine which pipes are to be replaced
as a result of age. Meters are changed every five years.
Private Sector Participation: The responsibility for the replacement of large pipes is assigned
to contractors who are on call, having been selected and assigned according to pre-established
zones in the city. This clearly minimizes the staff and equipment for this purpose that would be
necessary for the municipallty to keep. Pumps are maintained under contract for similar reasons.
Repairs and Responsiveness to the Public: The maintenance groups work sixteen hours a day,
in two shifts, in order to ensure that the 125 monthly repair calls are fixed the same day that the
complaints are received. The critical aspect of the strategy for repairs is to minimize response
time, and secondly to reduce losses to the municipality. This has resulted in a policy of
instituting temporary relief measures when immediate repairs are not possible. When a complaint
is received, an inspector is dispatched to determine need (unless it is already known that
excavation will be necessary, in which case that team goes immediately). The inspector (or
excavation team) radios in the (other) requirements, and the necessary team follows. Staff
training emphasizes fixing it right, first time.
Wastewater
Routine maintenance: Pipes are flushed at least once a year, before winter, and once more
during winter for known trouble spots. In some areas, culverts are closed during the summer
to prevent dumping of materials in them. Staff are trained to recognize warning signs of
problems and must inspect for them; when lines are blocked and when culverts are being cleaned
potential and current repair needs are identified. There is a systematic program for opening of
manhole covers and inspection of lines.
Roads
Maintenance planning: Each road has its own documentation and ongoing expenditure account.
The system tracks the remaining life of a road to determine the appropriate maintenance activity.
The estimated life of a new or completely renovated road is about eight or nine years, and the
effects of asphalting, overlays and renovation on extending the life of the road is calculated and
assessed along with other known conditions such as accumulated expenditure since last major



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
works, traffic type and volume. In addition, plans for road excavation for water works are
reviewed. On this basis, the appropriate action is scheduled. Daily inspections also identify
areas for asphalting.
Private sector involvement: Annually, a book of contracts for all maintenance work to be done
is prepared and qualified contractors are invited to bid for these works. These contractors are
then on call throughout the year to provide the appropriate services to the municipality at the bid
price. This facilitates the planning and budgeting of the municipality, decreases the response time
for work to be initiated and allows more flexible appropriate scheduling.
Public Education and Involvement
9.     The municipality has created a rapid response center to field citizen complaints and reports on
maintenance or repairs needed. This center has toll-free hotline services manned 24 hours a day, backed
by crews at work 16 hours a day and on-call duty during the remaining eight hours. The number of these
hotlines and other urgent numbers are mailed annually with the utilities bills. The public is alerted by
public education programs to provide critical information when calling hotlines. These include location,
(with street lights, the number on the electricity pole), the manifestation of the problem, and the action
taken, if any. By the municipality responding quickly to these calls the public has learned that it is
worthwhile to utilize this facility. As a result, the cost to the municipality and the public of systems
failures has been greatly reduced.
Studies and Guidelines
10.   The Nazareth program has carried out a number of studies related to maintenance in order to
determine the most beneficial strategies. In addition, the professional associations in the sectors have
disseminated experience and recommended specifications for equipment and procedures that have been
helpful in planning and management of maintenance.



Annex 7
Page I of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program
Background
1.    The Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-program would help support the coordinated provision of much
needed basic infrastructure, services and community facilities in existing lower-income communities in
Gaza and the West Bank. It would also help revitalize the dilapidated central areas of the older
municipalities. Because of funding constraints, the project will begin with the most urgent problem areas
in the SMs in Gaza, and would focus on those lower-income residential neighborhoods where land tenure
is not in dispute. Therefore, squatter settlements and refugee camps would not be included at this stage.
The neighborhoods to be upgraded have been selected using a set of criteria which include poverty,
inadequacy of infrastructure and services, willingness of the commnunity to participate, and potential for
synergy with other community development programs. Selection also took into account current municipal
development plans and other Bank-Group and donor-assisted infrastructure improvement projects.
Consideration is being given to linking the sub-program with USAID's existing Home Improvement Loan
Program so that families in the upgraded areas could also benefit from loans under this program.
The Gaza and Rafah Sub-projects
2.    The municipalities of Gaza and Rafah have identified ten priority neighborhoods, representing
the most under-serviced of the low-income areas. Four of these neighborhoods have been selected for
initial inclusion in the project. They are typical of the older, mixed-use communities of Gaza Strip cities.
In all areas, land and buildings are privately-owned and title is uncontested. The majority of dwelling
units are freehold properties dating back several decades. Rental units (aside from the commercial space)
are not common. Typically there are small shops and commercial/small-scale manufacturing enterprises
along main and secondary streets. The most common dwelling types are two- to five-story apartment
buildings. Construction is of permanent materials, with a considerable amount of recent expansion of
units. All these areas suffer from recurring and severe flooding problems. Most have the double
problem of flooding and inadequate septic pits. In the rainy season, low-lying areas experience sewerage
discharge into flood waters on the streets. The oldest areas have narrow and irregular street layouts,
which would be fully paved (no curbs/sidewalks are needed). Virtually all streets and footpaths are
unpaved, and extremely difficult to transit in the rainy season. All communities need street-lighting,
experience garbage collection problems and are deficient in basic community facilities.
3.    The project would aim to significantly alleviate the most urgent of these problems, and works
would be designed so as to prevent the relocation of residents, (although there may be isolated cases
where some temporary relocation during construction may be necessary). Implementation would be the
responsibility of the engineering departments of the relevant SM, working in close consultation and
cooperation with the community. To the extent possible, it would adopt labor-intensive construction
techniques and draw upon the experience of NGOs operating in the area. The SMs would be provided
with technical assistance under the project to help with detailed preparation and implementation.
4.    A list of the project neighborhoods and a summary of development costs is presented in Table
1 below. The neighborhoods are similar in size (10-14 ha.) and density (410-490 persons per ha.); their
upgrading cost ranges from about $85,000 per ha. to $105,000 per ha. (or US$1,200-1,750/Household),



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
depending on specific needs and conditions. Investments would typically include a package of water
reticulation improvements; underground power and telephone lines (for future installation); improvements
and extension of the secondary sewerage lines and storm drainage; paving of main and secondary streets,
sidewalks and footpaths; street-lighting poles and fixtures; garbage collection containers; and community
facilities. Project total costs (including contingencies) are estimated at US$5.21 million,!' including
US$0.47 million for detailed preparation and implementation support. The total beneficiary population
is estimated at about 21,500 persons or about 3,000 households (including hundreds of comunercial
establishments). Further details are available in the Project File.
Table 1: Summary of Core Neighborhood Upgrading Project Costs
Gaza City:
1. El-Turkman          14.0     5,800            1.44            105               1,750
2. El-Jdaideh          1 1.5    5,600            0.93              85              1,200
3. El-Daraj            13.0     5,900            1.34             105              1,600
Sub-total   38.5    17,300           3.71             100               1,500
Rafah City:
4. Amer El-Genena      10.0     4,200            1.03             105              1,750
Sub-total      10.0  4,200           1.03             105               1,750
Sub-total: Works   48.5    21 ,500           4.74            100               1 ,550
Technical Assistance                             0.47             10                 150
TOTAL COST    48.5    21,500               5.21            110               1,700
Notes: 1. Total costs include physical and price contingencies of 10 and 3 percent, respectively.
2. Cost/ha and Cost/Household figures are rounded to the nearest US$5,000 and US$50 respectively.
3. Average household size estimated at 7 persons.
1/     Four additional neighborhoods (El-Zaitoon, El-Tuffah, and Sheik Radwan in Gaza City; and Hai El-Barazil
in Rafah) have been appraised and will be readied for implementation quickly if additional funding is
available.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 8
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Government Technical Assistance, Training Strategy and Components
Strategy
1.     The approach taken to capacity building under this project has been to establish a process through
which the EAPC and the local governments would be able to work through complex technical,
managerial, financial and political issues in an uncertain and difficult environment. This process involves
the use of Interministerial and high-level Technical Committees as well as local (municipal) Working
Groups as the fora for guidance, debate, and resolution of the issues of local government legal and
institutional reform, financial reform and service provision and delivery improvements. In addition, these
bodies would monitor the implementation of agreed measures and programs and modify them in light of
experience.
2.     Although it is anticipated that these bodies will be effective fora for these purposes, it is not
expected that the committees or the MLG, as their secretariat, will be able to carry out all of the data
gathering, conceptualizing and analyses that will be necessary to enable the committees to discharge their
mandates. Consequently, it has been recognized that resources for the hiring of consultants must be a
necessary part of the support to the work of these committees.
3.     Experience indicates that the nature of the issues and the context in which they will need to be
resolved will result in somewhat disjointed progress, and demands on analytical services that will not
always be easy to predict. This situation requires substantial flexibility in the availability, responsiveness,
length and intensity of efforts of the consultants in order to ensure timeliness and appropriate focus in
responding to the opportunities and constraints that the committees will face. In addition, familiarity with
local conditions, while always helpful in providing assistance, is vital under the circumstances of WBG.
As a result, it is proposed that the type of arrangement entered into with the suppliers of services reflect
these requirements for flexibility and responsiveness. Under these arrangements, MLG, as the secretariat
to the national level committees, and the individual selected municipalities, would enter into contracts
with each selected supplier that would specify the quantity of the various type of resources that would
be anticipated, the broad nature of the work anticipated, and an agreement on the maximum mobilization
and response time to various types of requests, as well as the total budgeted for those services. As the
committees or working groups carry out their work, they would request specific services or products
through MLG or directly - in the case of the municipalities, from the suppliers. The suppliers would
provide the outputs - which may be analyses, memoranda, papers, proposals, draft plans, manuals as well
as training modules and workshops - within agreed timeframes.
4.     Timing:  With regard to training, suppliers may be given a list of prospective training
requirements, the target audience, output expectations and context at the inception of contracts so that
preliminary preparation and testing of materials and module may begin. For all types of services,
suppliers would agree to contract and make available any outside expertise needed that was not available
within its organization.
5.     Fortunately, there are a number of local and regional sources of assistance that would be able to
fulfill the conditions of responsiveness, flexibility and local knowledge that is called for. These resources



Annex 8
Page 2 of 8
include applied research, technical consulting and training centers within and outside of the universities,
as well as consulting firms. The mission met with a number of these groups to discuss the proposed
approach, and received favorable reception.
6.     The remainder of the annex outlines the TORs for the committees and working groups and
provides a tentative list of the potential studies that may be undertaken by each. Performance indicators,
standards and input guidelines are discussed in an Appendix A to this Annex.
The Interministerial Steering Committee (IMSC)
7.     This Cabinet Sub-committee will oversee the entire capacity building program.  It will be
responsible for making recommendations to the full cabinet on policy matters which requires its clearance.
The membership will consist of all ministries which have a role in the capacity building program,
including, MLG (Chair), MOF, MPIC, MOJ, MOT, MOI and MOW. The IMSC will meet at least
quarterly, or more frequently at the request of the Chair, to receive and review progress reports and to
act on recommendations made to it by the Technical Committees.
The Legal and Institutional Technical Comnmittee (LITC)
8.     The objectives of the work of this committee are to: preserve and expand where appropriate,
legitimate roles and functions of existing municipalities; define compatible roles and functions for
provinces; establish appropriate roles, functions and rules for the other entities in the local government
system, including a classification and assignment system; assign proper financial authority to accompany
responsibilities; establish appropriate accountability systems; and to strengthen the capacity of the overall
system to carry out its new functions.
9.     This committee will be responsible for overseeing the formulation of the drafting instructions for
the new local government law and the preparation of the draft law. Its membership will include, MLG
(Chair), MOJ, MOF, MOI, three representatives of municipalities and other representatives as determined
by the EAPC. The LITC would agree on:
(a) the principles that would determine these instructions, including the structure of the law, that
is, whether the law will set out the principles and basic parameters of local government
structure, leaving the details to be issued under regulations (a basic law), or whether all
pertinent matters would be encompassed within the law (an all-encompassing law);
(b) the types and levels of local governments, their fundamental governance structure (chief
executive, legislative or policy-making body, critical administrative appointments) and the
jurisdiction of their authority;
(c) the principles that would guide the scope and degree of autonomy at each level;
(d) principles that will determine assignment of functions, e.g., clarity, the avoidance of
ambiguity and potential conflicts in responsibility; the treatment of spillover effects; conflict
resolution mechanisms;
(e) principle that will determine financing authority and resources, so that financial capacity and
authority are matched to functions; and



Annex 8
Page 3 of 8
(f) principles of accountability and reporting relationships: to citizens for services, to sources of
financing for the proper use of funds; and to the EAPC, for the execution of government
policy and agency functions.
10.   Having agreed on the principles, the LITC will assign responsibility for preparing the drafting
instructions to a qualified group which will commit to producing initial and revised drafts on a timetable
agreed with the committee. The LITC will review the drafts and provide comments until suitable drafting
instructions have been agreed. These drafting instructions are to be submitted to MOJ for the preparation
of the draft law. The MOJ may use consulting resources available to the LITC in drafting the law. The
LITC should inform Cabinet, through the IMSC, of the results of its work.
11.   The LITC must complete this phase of its work within one month of its appointment. If the LITC
decides upon a basic law, it will continue in existence to review the draft law to ensure consistency with
the drafting instructions and to guide and monitor the drafting of regulations to ensure their congruence
with the principles established. If an all-encompassing law is decided upon, the LITC will expire after
reviewing the draft law.
12.   The costs of the operations of the LITC, including expenses and appropriate compensation for
eligible members, will be supported under the project.  It is anticipated that 35 man-months of
consultants' services would be required at a total cost of US$0.5 million (see Table 1 below).
The Fiscal and Financial Technical Committee (FTC)
13.   The FTC chaired by MOF and including the Ministry of Planning, MLG, the technical ministries
and PECDAR as well as three representatives of the local governments, will oversee two sets of studies
and the implementation of their results. The first addresses local government revenues, while the second
deals with capital investment policy and programming.
14.   The first component will be directly overseen by a sub-committee of FTC chaired by MOF and
including, MLG and local government representatives.
(a) The Local Government Revenue Structure and Strategy Study will review alternatives and
prepare an implementation plan to improve local government revenues. The FTC will work
closely with tie Management Technical Committee (see below) as this work, would be
closely related to the Program Management and the Capital Investment Policy and
Programming studics.
(b) The FTC would examine, with the assistance of consultants as necessary, all aspects of local
recurrent financing, including:
(i) charges for services;
(ii) fees; and
(iii) alternative local taxes, shared taxes and grants transfer schemes.
(c) The committee will recommnend to Cabinet through the IMSC, a structure and system that
would be efficient, cost-effective, buoyant and equitable as well as a program of
implementation. The program would include instruments to monitor impact in order to



Annex 8
Page 4 of 8
reconmmend any modification in implementation. The intention is to implement new revenue
structures in a year after the initiation of the FTC.
(d) The second component is the Local Government Capital Investment Policy and
Programming. The FTC, with the assistance of its consultants, will work:
(i) to rationalize information flows on investment proposals and programs;
(ii) on the development and application of tools to assess and prioritize investments; and
(iii) develop resource allocation systems to reflect government sectoral, geographical and
equity policies.
(e) The work would be related closely to the studies on local government revenue and program
management. The studies under this component would establish:
(i) performance indicators and performance standards for services;
(ii) national service standards;
(iii) guidelines on input standards and planning and design procedures for services; and
(iv) the timeframe within which national service standards targets should be achieved.
(f) This project would initiate this work by putting its resources through the MOF and
transferring the analytical tools used in project selection to MLG and PECDAR. Within a
year, the FTC will arrange to have the other donor projects for local government flowing
through the same system. During the third year the remaining aspects of the work would be
completed.
15.   The cost of the operations of the FTC, including expenses and appropriate compensation for
eligible members, will be supported under the project.  It is anticipated that 90 man-months of
consultants' services would be required at a total cost of US$1.3 million (see Table 1 below).
The Managerial Technical Conmmittee (MTC)
16.   The MTC chaired by MLG and including representatives of MOF, the technical ministries and
four local governments representatives, will oversee three sets of activities.
(a) The first set, Local Government Program Management and Training, will address the
problems that have resulted in poorly performing local government services. The MTC will
review and advise on the design of:
(i) structural;
(ii) managerial;
(iii) financial reforms; and



Annex 8
Page 5 of 8
(iv) training.
(b) At the local level. As is the case with the other components cf this group of activities,
responsibility for managing the studies in the selected municipalities and implementing the
results, will be with the municipalities themselves, while the monitoring and synthesis of
lessons learned and the preparation of the program for implementation in subsequent
municipalities will be overseen by the MTC. In exercising its responsibilities, the MTC may
select consultants to assist it which are separate to the consultants working directly with the
municipalities, however, both sets of consultants will undertake to cooperate in monitoring
and synthesizing experience. Work would begin on initiation of the project and continue
throughout its implementation.
(c) Under the second component, Local Government Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
Programming, the MTC will shepherd the piloting of the development of an operations and
maintenance program in the five selected municipalities (Gaza City, Hebron, Jenin, Nablus
and Rafah) and expand the program to the remaining local governments based on lessons
learned, with the assistance of other donors.
(d) The pilot phase would be initiated at the start of the project and the expansion phase would
begin a year later. The management of the pilot activities at the municipalities would rest
with the selected municipalities themselves, however, the synthesis of lessons learned and the
preparation of the program for implementation in subsequent municipalities would rest with
the MTC.
(e) The third component is a public information and education plan to complement and directly
support the objectives and other activities of this program. The Local Govermnent Public
Information Program would provide mechanisms for feedback from the community on
priorities, strategies and the perceived performance of the program. Responsibilities for
implementation, monitoring, synthesis and broader dissemination and application will be
similar to the other components under this committee. Work will begin with the start of the
project and continue throughout.
17.   The cost of the operations of the MTC, including expenses and appropriate compensation for
eligible members, will be supported under the project.  It is anticipated that 185 man-months of
consultants' services would be required at a total cost of US$2.3 million (see Table 1 below).
The Legal and Institutional Working Groups (LIWG)
18.   These municipal level working groups, comprising the mayors and heads of departments, will
review the difficulties and constraints to efficient operations of the assigned functions of the municipalities
as a result of the current laws and develop proposals for more appropriate conditions in the new law.
19.   In addition, the LIWGs will review their functional assignments and develop proposals with
regard to what are appropriate functions for them to manage, and what relationships should exist between
themselves and the EAPC and its ministries, with regard to the execution of these functions.
20.    The LIWGs also will consider the various sources of financing and the instruments available to
municipalities to effectively exercise responsibility for each service and function allocated to them. The



Annex 8
Page 6 of 8
LIWGs will highlight the weaknesses in the existing systems and develop proposals for more closely
matching the requirements of assigned functions.
21.   The working groups also will review the nature and type of accountability that is exercised with
regard to their functions, and the appropriateness and effectiveness of the mechanisms currently
employed. The LIWGs will develop proposals for more appropriate accountability systems.
22.    The results of the various reviews and the proposals developed as a consequence, will be
conveyed to the representatives of municipalities in the LITC. It is anticipated that consultants' services
would be covered under the LITC.
The Fiscal and Financial Working Group (FWG)
23.   The FWGs, comprised of the mayor, finance director, the technical and administrative managers
in the municipalities and the heads of the service delivery departments and units, will oversee for its
respective municipality, the work on reviewing the specific costs and revenues of each service being
provided by the municipality. In particular the FWGs will examine and document the potential impact
of transferring the delivery of electricity and water supply services to utilities.
24.   The FWGs will assess:
(a) the potential impact of restructured arrangements for delivering the remaining services
through greater involvement of the private sector, including NGOs;
(b) improved performance in delivering the services which are retained as direct responsibilities
of the municipalities;
(c) the potential of restructuring tariffs with improvements in service quality and reliability; and
(d) in addition, review all fees and taxes to determine for each:
(i) the yield;
(ii) the cost of administration, weaknesses in administration and measures and costs
necessary to improve;
(iii) the characteristics of who pays, and how much, and who does not pay, and why and the
amount collected relative to the potential revenue.
25.   The FWGs will oversee the design and implementation of a revenue improvement program for
the municipalities based on restructuring the delivery arrangements for services wvherever feasible;
improved service delivery performance and related tariff adjustments; imprc ed revenue administration,
de-emphasizing poor yielding, non-cost effective sources, strengthening efforts in potentially productive
areas, and increased public education.
26.   The FWG also will carry out an assessment of the investment program needed to achieve specific
targets in infrastructure coverage and quality over the next five years. In preparing this investment
program, the FWGs will consider a full range of financing options including private participation,



Annex 8
Page 7 of 8
community contributions, borrowing on the basis of proven net revenue streams, internally generated
surpluses and potential contributions from the central government.
27.   In all areas of work, the FWGs will utilize consultants as and when needed. In addition, the
FWGs will meet regularly (at least once a quarter) with the FTC to discuss findings and to collaborate
on proposals to effect system-wide improvements. It is anticipated that 75 man-months of consultants'
services would be required at a total cost of US$1.0 million (see Table 1 below).
The Managerial Working Group (MWG)
28.   The MWGs, comprising the mayor and heads of departments, will oversee the work to improve
the delivery of services to residents of their particular municipality. This working group will review the
structural, managerial and technical problems that constrain the efficient and reliable delivery of services
at an appropriate quality to residents.
29.   In reviewing the structural issues, the MWGs will examine the potential for private sector
(including NGOs) participation in the delivery of the services. In making this examination, the MWGs
will consider the relative coverage, reliability, quality and costs to consumers of the services with or
without private involvement. In particular, the MWGs will bear in mind the limitations on public
resources available for investment, the difficulties in recruiting qualified staff, political constraints in
effectively managing service delivery, the need and requirements for ensuring desired performance by
private providers, including, competition or appropriate regulation.
30.   Where conditions for successful private participation does not exist, the MWGs will examine the
alternative of commercialization of the public sector operations to achieve desired efficiencies.
31.   In assessing managerial and technical problems, the MWGs will consider the information base
and systems and decision-making processes that govern operations; the adequacy and preparedness of the
personnel in place to perform the roles required of them and the incentives for them to perform well; the
adequacy of tools and facilities available to staff for their jobs; the understanding of consumer
requirements and preferences, and the means available to express those preferences. The MWGs will
also consider how financial arrangements with regard to the payment for services, affect performance.
32.   Of particular importance in this review, is the assessment of the quality of existing maintenance
programs. The MWGs will examine the consequences of inadequate maintenance for the assets of the
specific municipalities, and project the benefits from improved maintenance. The working groups will
contact municipalities, such as Nazareth, which have instituted successful maintenance programs, to
discuss benefitting from their experiences.
33.   The MWGs also will actively solicit the views of the communities they serve to derive an
improved mutual understanding of the issues in service provision and delivery. They will prepare and
implement a systematic program for this purpose.
34.   In all areas of work, the MWGs will utilize consultants as and when needed. In addition, the
MWGs will meet regularly (at least once a quarter) with the MTC to discuss findings and progress and
to collaborate on proposals to effect system-wide improvements. It is anticipated that 180 man-months
of consultants' services would be required at a total cost of US$2.1 million (see Table 1 below).



Annex 8
Page 8 of 8
Table 1: Summary Breakdown of Expected Consultants' Support for Part B
.              .          Ma~~~~~w*    Expected Cost. .....
1. Support to LITC and LIWG
International Consultants     10             150
Local Consultants             25              125
Travel and Subsistence                        190
subtotal      35             465
2. Support to FTC
International Consultants     30             450
Local Consultants             60             300
Travel and Subsistence                       540
subtotal      90            1,290
3. Support to MTC
International Consultants     45             675
Local Consultants             140            700
Travel and Subsistence                       910
subtotal      185           2,285
4. Support to FWG
International Consultants     20             300
Local Consultants             55             275
Travel and Subsistence                       390
subtotal      75             965
5. Support to MWG
International Consultants     40             600
Local Consultants             140            700
Travel and Subsistence                       840
subtotal      180           2,140
TOTAL                    565           7,145
Note:
The rates used are: for international (also regional) consultants, US$15,000 per MM;
for local consultants, US$5,000 per MM



Annex 8
Appendix A
Performance Indicators, Performance Standards and Input Guidelines
Establishing a System of Accountability
1.    Central ministries will need to establish indicators that signal whether policies are having intended
effects. These performance indicators will usually be based on the cumulative effect of achieving
standards of output from related service delivery systems within a sector. For example, the proposed
performance indicator for the water supply sector is increased per capita consumption of water. This
indicator captures the effect of lower relative prices to consumers, greater availability and access to water,
greater reliability of service delivery, better quality of product and public increased understanding of, and
participation in, the service operations and benefits. The performance standards for the delivery systems
that relates to these intended effects include the level of unaccounted for water, the number and timing
of interruptions in service, the duration of interruptions, and bill collection percentage.
2.    In establishing performance standards, the ministries also should provide contextual guidelines
about input and procedures and examples of best, or at least good practice, so that local governments will
have the basis for assessing their own situation and designing the most feasible approach to achieving the
policy objectives under their particular circumstances. It is in the establishment of performance standards
that the system of accountability starts. In many cases, standard procedures based on proven experience
will be readily replicable, however, there undoubtedly will be many other cases where local governments
will have to evolve creative solutions. Policy structures will have to consider both sets of possibilities.
Policy Implementation
3.    Implementing policy in the context of decentralization involves convincing the people in local
communities, through their leadership, of the utility of the policy prescription to them.  As a
consequence, local leaders and officials must be educated to the values and validity of the policies and
programs suggested to achieve their objectives. Perhaps the best way of accomplishing this task is to give
local governments the tools and the opportunity to convince themselves. In some cases, this may involve
helping the local governments to carry out studies and prepare plans for the sector in their jurisdiction;
quite often, this may be accomplished through training. If the preparation of plans and programs within
the local governments involves real participation of its commnunities, then these communities in turn
become knowledgeable about the policies and what outcomes they should expect from the services of the
sector. Knowledgeable communities contribute substantially to the successful implementation of policy;
insofar as they hold their local agencies and their leadership accountable for achieving known
performance standards, they become a vital part of the overall system of accountability.
Performance Monitoring and Reporting
4.     MLG and the technical ministries must monitor the movement of the performance indicators for
their sectors and the achievement of the related performance standards by district agencies. This
monitoring serves several useful functions: it allows the ministry to report to the country on progress vis-
a-vis its mandate, thus, in the example of the water supply sector, it would mean reporting on the
increase or decrease in consumption, as that indicator summarizes the outcome of all related efforts to
advance the sector. It allows comparative assessment of, and reporting on, the performance of local
governments with regard to the aspects for which they are responsible. Other components of the policy
implementation system such as extending services to the poor would be reported on, and analyzing the
performance of the various components may indicate particular weaknesses in the policy framework that
need to be addressed, and may indicate where research is needed.



Annex 8
Appendix A
5.    It should therefore be clear that performance monitoring and reporting is the vital core of
accountability. A complete picture of performance includes an assessment of the inputs that went into
achieving that level of output. The traditional concern only with tracking (especially financial) inputs,
is limited even under centralized systems. It is less than helpful under decentralization. The incentives
to use resources wisely and efficiently at the local government level must come from reinforcing
responsiveness to communities at every level - among local officials, local political leaders and the central
government. A scorecard that is open, transparent and available to all provides substantial incentives to
improvement, and that may be the greatest benefit of accountability. It is important to note that the
approach described here does not require or involve the central government intruding on the responsibility
and authority of the local governments. Policy implementation includes ensuring that the role of the local
governments, the basis on which their performance is evaluated and how their accomplishments compared
to others, is well understood by their constituents. With that understanding, the pressure to improve local
government performance should come from constituents - where it belongs.
Training
6.     As noted earlier, training is an important mechanism by which central ministries may assist local
governments to perform their roles and functions. Training also may be a vehicle for selling local
governments on the policies and programs of a sector. However, the approach to training and the
development of training programs need to be responsive to different circumstances. Staff within the
command structure of a ministry may be directed to undergo training. Further, the incentives of training
in that context may be entirely within the control of the ministry. Training between MLG and local
government staff must employ new strategies. Training must be seen as helping local governments
accomplish their objectives; as such, local governments must be consulted about the training to be
provided and how it is to be delivered. It is appropriate and useful for MLG to prepare initial menus of
potential training opportunities based on their observations of what are the critical issues faced in policy
implementation at the municipal local level or below.  However, it is recommended that local
governments have a substantial input in determining the priority of offerings. It also is useful to have
consultations with a selection of local government staff on the focus and presentation of training events.
Like other programs, training should have performance indicators and standards which are monitored and
the results published.



Annex 9
Page I of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Government Sector Policy
Reform and Development Matrix
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............                          .    .....    ,    ,,, _....... W....
.........  ,                     ...  ,   _
LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL TECHNICAL COMMTEE (LITC)
LG Legal!         Review and          Local Government   Local government
Institutional     propose structure,   Law presented to    elections.
Framework         roles and functions   parliament.
financing and
accountability of
LG system in
consultation with
stakeholders.
FISCAL AND FINANCIAL TECBNICAL COMMYITEE (FTC)
LG Revenue                                                Initiate review of   Initiate consultations
Structure &                                               alternatives for   on alternative
Strategy                                                 improving LG        revenue structures
revenues.          and instruments.
LG Capital                                                Detail with MOF,   Initiate discussion of
Investment Policy                                         disbursement and    roles of key
& Programming                                            reimbursement       agencies including
arrangements.      MLG, PECDAR,
Explain investment  MOP, Technical
analysis tools to  Ministries
MLG / PECDAR
and train staff.
MANAGERIAL TTECHNICAL COMMITEE (MTC)
LG Program                            MLG creates         Deliver workshop   Initiate review of
Management &                          Capacity Building   for new            service delivery and
Training                              Unit. Prepare      administrations.    cost recovery
training workshop   Initiate review of    strategies. Develop
package on roles,   true costs of      concept of well-
functions for new    delivering services.  functioning LG.
administrations.                       Hold consultations.
LG O&M                                                    Complete in SMs,   Prepare assets
Programming                                               inventory of       performance
municipal assets.    standards. Hold
Begin assembly of   consultation on
data on all LGs.   maintenance
Initiate donor     schedule.
consultations.
LG Public                                                 Prepare outline    Initiate contacts with
Information                                               strategy for PI    communities to
Program                                                   program.           discuss program.
Initiate feedback on
priorities.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Government Sector Policy
Reform and Development Matrix
......revnue..rucure.revenes..nitite.rvenu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                     . . . . . ......    '......,
~~~~.. .,-''                                    ,',' :{.3.  -- -}''i.............................  . .....................!''"''
MCEAI)INON                  AL TECHNICAL COMMITTEE (LITC)
LG Legall
Insti utional                                                            t
Framework                                                      r
F'ISCAL ANI) FIN)ANCIAL TECHNICAL COMMI1lTTEE (VTC)
LG Revenue          Prepare framework    Prepare regulations   Prepare and
Structure &         for legislation and   and administrative    implement training
Strategy            regulations for new    procedures for new    programs for new
revenue structure.    revenues. Initiate   revenue
preparation of       administration.
training programs.    Initiate new revenue
regime.
LG  wapital         Assemble data on      Prepare input and    Initiate new rules    Initiate consultation
Investment Policy    total local          performance          for investment        on government
& Programming       government level      standards for local    programming.        distributional policy
investments.         government services                        and priorities.
Prepare and discuss   based on work
with donors new      under Program
rules for investment   Management.
programming.
MANAGERIAL TECHNICAL COMMITT'EE (MTC)
LG Program          Initiate design or    Complete plans for   Initiate new service
Management &        implementation of    new service delivery  delivery systems
Training            standardized          systems including    and training
accounting systems.   commercialization    programs. Establish
Plan improved cost   or privatization.     monitoring
recovery.            Prepare training      programs.
programs for new
systems.
LG O&M              Design O&M            Prepare and initiate   Initiate donor
Programming         schedule and         training programs.    supported O&M
implementation       Prepare operating     program.
strategy. Initiate   manuals. Initiate
bids for contracted    new systems.
services, internal   Complete donors
restructuring for    consultations on
remainder.           wider program.
LG Public           Begin active          Disseminate          Disseminate           Review with
Information         dissemination of      information on       information on        communities initial
Program             information on        planned new          performance           impact of new
planned service      systems including     standards.           systems.
improvements. Set    commercialization
up feedback          and privatization and
systems.             anticipated effects.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Govermnent Sector Policy
Reform and Development Matrix
.gS,0K,9E,3...,..;.~~~~~~~~~~~~.........:y
LEGAL  AND INSTIT        NAL TECHNICAL COMMITTEE (LITC)
LG Legall
Institutional
Framework
FISCAL AND FINANCIAL TECHNICAL COMMITTEE (FTC)
LG Revenue
Structure &
Strategy
LG Capital       Establish         Establish inter-    Provide
Investment       performance       governmental     indicative
Policy &         targets and      transfer policy   planning figures
Programming      subsidy policy   and distribution    and operational
for services     formulae for      procedures to LG
investments      for investment
planning.
MANAGERIAL TECHNICAL COMMITTEE (MTC)
LG Program       Review progress                     Local
Management &    in implementiiig                     governments
Training        prograrm                            begin preparaLion
of investment
programs based
on new policy.
LG O&M
Programming                                                          _
LG Public                          Feedback and      Disseminate
Information                        consultation with  information on
Program                           communities on    new revenue
service quality    structure, transfer
and reliability.    policy and
distribution
formulae.



Annex 10
Page I of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipality of Gaza
Policy Reform and Development Matrix
This annex includes the detailed Policy Reform and Development Matrix for the Municipality of Gaza
which is representative of the other SMs. Detailed Policy Reform and Development Matrices for the
other SMs are available in the Project File.
.,..,,..:.,,_...............................    .    .....
LEALAD INSTITUTFIONAL WORKING GROUP (LIWG)
Legal/Institutional   Review Implications    Propose changes to
Framework             of current laws and    laws
regulations onl
municipality                               l
MANAGERIAL WORKING GROUP (MWG) _                                   __X  X  X  X  =    =
Program                                      Prepare detailed data   Prepare analyses of    Review services
Management &                                 on service delivery   services revenue       delivery strategy
Training                                     costs, by service
O&M Programming                              Complete inventory    Hold workshop with    Prepare assets
of municipal assets.    MLG, Municipality    performance
Review existing       of Nazareth.           standards. Prepare
O&M activities and                           maintenance
budget.                                      schedules.
Public Information                                                 Prepare outline        Initiate contacts with
Programming                                                        strategy for Pi        communities to
program.              discuss program.
Initiate feedback on
priorities.
Special Actvities     Prepare complete list   Discuss and finalize                        Initiate training as
of existing TA        proposals for                                appropriate. Review
programs and inputs.   hardware, software                          results of Arthur
Identify hardware,    and training.                                Anderson program.
software and training                                              Identify any
gaps.                                                              remaining gaps in
.______________________________  _______accounting  and  MIS.
FISCAL AND FINANCIAL WORKING GROUP (FWG)
Revenue Structure &                                                Initiate review of     Initiate consultations
Strategy                                                           alternatives for       on alternative
improving LG          revenue structures
revenues.             and instruments.
Capital Investment                                                 Initiate consideration   Initiate public
Policy &                                                           of 5-year investment   discussion of
Programming                                                        program with new       priorities. Initiate
administration.       consideration of costs
and cost recovery
potential.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipality of Gaza
Policy Reform and Development Matrix
........ .- 9                                       .........
LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WORKING GROUP (LIVVG)
Legalllnstitutionalllll
Frameworkl
MANAGERIAL WRKING GROUP (MWG)
Program             Initiate            Complete plans for  Initiate new service
Management &        implementation of   new service         delivery systems
Training            standardized        delivery systems    and training
accounting         including            programs.
systems. Plan       commercialization    Establish
improved cost       or privatization.   monitoring
recovery.           Prepare training    programs.
programs for new
systems.
O&M                 Design O&M          Prepare and initiate
Programming         implementation      training programs.
strategy. Initiate  Prepare operating
bids for contracted   manuals. Initiate
services, internal    new systems.
restructuring for
remainder.
Public Information   Begin active       Disseminate         Disseminate          Review with
Programming         dissemination of    information on      information on      communities initial
information on      planned new         performance         impact of new
planned service     systems including    standards.         systems.
improvements. Set  commercialization
up feedback         and privatization
systems.            and anticipated
effects.
FISCAL AND FINANCIAL WORKING GROUP (FWG)
Rev. Structure &    Refine proposals
Strategy            and reassess
effects. Hold
consultations.
Capital Investment   Initiate public                        Prepare draft Gaza
Policy &            discussion of                           outline investment
Programming         priorities and                          plan. Hold
strategies for                          consultation with
financing and cost                      MLG, FTC.
recovery.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipality of Gaza
Policy Reform and Development Matrix
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .,.. ...   ..  . .,  .,       .........    .B,....  ......  ,  .g ., 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................. .    
Program              Review progress in
Management &         implementing
Training            program. Feedback
results to MLG,
MTC..
O&M                  Review results of    Disseminate results
Programming          new O&M              of review.
systems. Modify as
necessary.                                _________
Public Information                        Feedback and         Disseminate 
Programming                               consultation with    information on new
communities on       revenue structure,
service quality and   transfer policy and
reliability,         distribution
formulae.
FISCAL AND FINANCIAL WORKING l MROGP (FWG)
Rev. Structure &                          Prepare regulations   Prepare and 
Strategy                                  and administrative    implement training
procedures for new   programs for new
revenues. Initiate    revenue
preparation of       administration
Training__________  training programs.
Capital lnvestment                                             Revise program in
Policy &                                                       view of
Programming        l                                           government policy.



Annex 11
Page 1 of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project and Program Cost Tables, and Sub-Projects for Years 1 and 2
Table 1: Summary of Project and Program Costs (USS milion)
Part A: Rehabilitation and Imnrovement
1. Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-Program
a. Roads
i. Village (access and internal) Roads                             2.0      0.5      2.      11. 2    3.0    14.
ii. Municipal Roads                                                 4.5      2.1     6.      18.       9.0    27.
iii. Regional Roads                                                  2.6     0.6      3.       6.8      2.(     8.
Subtota      9.1     3. 1    12.      36.      14.0    50.
b. Water Supply, Wastewater and Sanitation
i. Village Systems                                                 3.5      0.       3.      13.      0.      13.
ii. Municipal Systems                                               2.7      0.(     2.      18.(      0.(    18.
Subtota      6 2     0.0      6.      31.       0.     31.
c. Technical Assistance                                                1.5      0.3      1.      6.       1.       8.1
Subtotal Rehabilitation and Improvemen      16.9      3.     20.3    73.7    15.4    89.
11. Maintenance Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure Assets
i. Village                                                         0.0      0.       0.       1.5     0.5      2.
ii. Municipal                                                       2.       2.9     5.       8.       7.      15.
iii. Regional Roads                                                 0.1      0.3      0.       2.0      1 .     3.
Subtota      2.      3.2      6.1    11.5       8.5    20.
b. Technical Assistance                                                0.3      0.3     0.       1.2      0.9      2.
Subtotal Maintenance      3.2      3.       6.     12.       9.      22.
m. Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure & Community Services                                 0.0      4.2      4.      6.      12.      18.
b. Technical Assistance                                                0.0      0.       0.      0.6      1.2      1.
Subtotal Neighborhood Upgradin        0.1      4.6     4.       6.      13.      19.
Subtotal Part A     20.0    11.5    31.5    93.0    38D    130.'
P5art B: Local Government Reform and Capacity Building
I. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for MLG
a. Legal and Institutional Framework                                   0.2      0.2     0.       0.2      0.2      0.
b. Program Management and Training                                     0.5      0.3      0.      0.5      0.3      0.
c. O&M Programming                                                     0.       0.       1.      0.6      0.       1.
d. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                           0.       0.       0.      0.       0.2      0.
e. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                      0.3      0.2      0.      0.3      0.2      0.
f. Public Information Program                                          0.2      0.1     0.       0.2      0.1      0.
Subtotal TA for ML        2.2      1.       3.      2.2      1.       3.
LI. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Programn for SMs
a. Program Management and Training                                     0.       0.2      0.      0.       0.2      0.
b. O&M Programming                                                     0.5      0.3      0.      0.5      0.3      0.
c. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                           0.2      0.2     0.       0.2      0.2      0.
d. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                      0.       0.2     0.       0.2      0.2      0.
e. Public Information Program                                          0.3      0.2      0.:     0.3      0.2      0.
Subtota TA forS          1.       11       2.      1.       1.1      2.
Subtotal Part        3.       2.5      6.      3.8      2.5      6.
Part Co Provect Manazgement A, Incremental Opier2ting Expens;es_
a. Incremental Operating Expenses                                      0.2      0.1     0.       0.       0.       1.
b. Training and Studies                                                0.2      0.1      0.      0.       0.      1H
c. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials and Spares for MLG and SMs           0.5      0.3      0.      0.9      0.       1.
d. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials and Spares for Project Management    0.2      0. 21    0.      0 3      0. 2     0.
e. Consultants' Services                                               0.1      0.1      0.;     0.3      0.2      0.
Subtotal Part C       1.2     0.8      2.(      2.6      1.8     4.
Total Base Cos      25.0    14.8    39.       99.4    42.2   141.
Physical Contingenc      2.5      1.5     4.       9.       4. 2    14.
Price Contingenc      0.1      0.4     1.,      3.0      1.3      4.
Total Project Cos      28.3    16. 7    45.i  112         47.7   160
Notes:
1. All costs are net of taxes and duties
2. All numbers have been rounded



Anne-x 11
Page 2 of 7
Table 2: Sumwary of Project and Program Costs, including contingencies (US$ million)
Part A: Rehahilitation and Improvement
1. Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-Program
a. Roads
i. Village (access and internal) Roads                               2.3      0.5     2.       12.       3.4     16
ii. Municipal Roads                                                  5.1      2.3      7.      20.3     10.2    30
iii. Regional Roads                                                   2.9      0.       3.       7.7    12.3    10.
Subtotal    10.3      3 .5    13.      40.7     15 .8    56.
b. Water Supply. Wastewater and Sanitation
i. Village Systems                                                   4.0      0.      4.       14.7      0.0    14.
ii. Municipal Systems                                                3.0      0.       3.      20.3      0.0    20.
Subtota      7.0      0.0      7.      35.0      0       35.
c. Technical Assistance                                                  1.7      0.3     2.1      7.6       1.6      9.
Subtotal Rehabilitation and Improvemen      19.0      3.8    22.       83.3    17.4    100.
11. Maintenance Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure Assets
i. Village                                                           0.0      0.0     0.        1.7      0.       2.
ii. Municipal                                                        2.7      3.3      6.       9.0      7.9    17.
iii. Regional Roads                                                   0.6      0.3      0.       2.3      1.1      3.
Subtota      3.3      3.6      6.      13.0      9.6    22.
b. Technical Assistance                                                 0.3      0.4      0.        1.3      1.0      2.
Subtotal Maintenance      3.6      3.9      7.      14.3    10.       24.
IIl. Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure & Community Services                                   0.0      4.7     4.        6.8     13.6    20.
b. Technical Assistance                                                 0.0       0.5     0.       0.71      1.       2.
Subtotal Neighborhood Upgradng        0.0      5.2      5.       7.5     14.      22.
Subtotal Part A     22.6    13.0    35.6   105.01    42.9   147.9
Part B: Local Government Reform and Capacity Building
I. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for MLG
a. Legal and Institutional Framework                                     0.3      0.2     0.       0. 3     0.2       0.
b. Program Management and Training                                       0.5      0.      0.       0.5      0.        0.
c. O&M Programming                                                       0.7      0.5      1.1      0.7      0.5      1.
d. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                             0.4      0.3     0.       0.        0.3      0.
e. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                        0.3      0.      0.       0.3       0.2      0.
f. Public Information Program                                           0.2       0.1     0.       0.2|     0.1      0.
Subtotal TA for MLG       2.4      1.6      4.1      2.        1.      4.
II. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for SMs
a. Program Management and Training                                      0.4       0.3     0.       0.4      0.3      0.
b. O&M Programming                                                       0.5      0.4       .       0.5      0.4      0.
c. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                             0.3      0.2     0.       0.3       0.2      0.
d. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                        0.3      0.2      0.       0.3      0.2l     0.
e. Public Inforrnation Program                                           0.3      02      0.        0.3      0.2      0.
Subtotal TA for SM       1.8      1.       3.1      1.8      1        3.
Subtotal Part E      4.3      2.8      7.1      4.3      2.8      7.1
Part Co Project M1anagement & Incremental C)perating F.xpenses_
a. Incremental Operating Expenses                                        0.02     0.1      0.       0.6      0.4      1.1
b. Training and Studies                                                  0.|2    0.1       0.       0.       0.4      1.1
c. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials and Spares for MLG and SMs             0.5      0.       0.       1. 0     0. 7     1.
d. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials and Spares for Project Management      0.3      0. 2     0.       0. 4     0.2      0.
e. Consultants' Services                                                 0.1      0.1      0.       0.3      0.2      0.
Subtotal Part C       1.4      0.1     2.:      3.0      2.        5.
Total Project Cos      28.31    16.7    45.1   112.3    47.    160.1
Notes:
1. All costs are net of taxes and duties
2. All numbers have been rounded



Annex 11
Page 3 of 7
Table 3: Distribution of Project Costs (USS millon)
Part A: Rehabilitation and Improvement
I. Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-Program
a. Roads
j Village (access and internal) Roads                                              1.         0.         2.                    3
ii. Municipal Roads                                                                 4.3        2.3       6.          1          3
iii. Regional Roads                                                                 2.         i          3.1 .1_3              3
Subtota       7.9        4.3       12.         31         3
b. Water Supply, Wastewater and Sanitation
i. Village Systems                                                                 1.         1.         3.                    4
ii. Municipal Systems                                                               1.5        1.        2.                    4
Subtota       3.         2.8        6.          1         4
c. Technical Assistance                                                                0.6        1.3        1.,         5         7
Subtotal Rebabilitation and Improvemen        11.         8.       20.          51         41
11. Maintenance Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure Assets
i. Village                                                                         0.         0.         0.
ii. Municipal                                                                       3.5        1.        5.          13         3
iii. Regional Roads                                                                 0.5        0.3        0.          :         3
Subtota       3.9        2.1        6.         15         3
b. Technical Assistance                                                                0.2        0.4        0.s                   7
Subtotal Maintenanc         4.1        2.         6.         1
HI. Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure & Community Services                                                 2.         1.5       4.          l l        3
b. Technical Assistance                                                                0.1        0.3        0.4         1         7
Subtotal Neighborhood Upgradinl         2.8        1.         4.6        1,         3
Subtotal Part A        18.9      12.1       31.5         79        4
Part B: Local Government Reform and Capacity Building
1. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for MLG
a. Legal and Institutional Framework                                                   0.2        0.         0           1
b. Program Management and Training                                                     0.5        0.3        0           2         3
c. O&M Programming                                                                     0.         0.         1           3         3
d. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                                           0.         0.         0                     3
e. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                                      0.3        0.         0           1         3
f. Public Information Program                                                          0.2        0.1        0.          1         3
Subtota TA for M            2.3        1.         3                     3
It. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for SMs
a. Program Management and Training                                                     0.         0.         0                     3
b. O&M Programming                                                                     0.5        0.3        0                     3
c. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                                           0.3        0.1        0           I         3
d. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                                      0.3        0.1        0           1         3
e. Public Information Program                                                          0.3        0.2        0           1         3
Subtotal TA for SM         1.1        0.9        2.                    3
Subtotal Part }        4.1        2.2        6.          1         3
PulC: Prolect MabnageMent & Incremental Dprainm            Epne
a. Incremental Operating Expenses                                                      0.3        0.        0            1
b. Training and Studies                                                                0.1        0.2        0'          1         7
c. Vehicl-s, Equipment, Materials and Spares for MLG and SMs                           0.         0.8        0.                   1
d. Vehicles, Equ"pment, Materials and Spares for Project Management                    0.         0.         0.          I        Io
e. ronsultants' Servics                                                                0.1        0 I       0.           1         70
Subtotal Part           0.         1         2            5         78
Total Base Cos        23.4       16.        39.4        10         41
Physical Contingenc       2.3         1.        4           1         41
Price Contingenc        0.7       0.'5       1.1          3        41
Total Project COS        26.4       1X.<       45.1       113         41
Notes:
1. All costs are net of taxes and duties
2. All numbers have been rounded



Annex 11
Page 4 of 7
Table 4: Distribution of Project Costs in West Bank (US$ million)
I. Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-Programn
a. Roads
j. Vjillage (access and internal) Roads                                           13        0. |       2.          8         3
ii. Municipal Roads                                                               2.9|       1.6|       4.5        I         3
iii. Regional Roads                                                                1._        0.        2.6         1(        3
Subtota       5.9        3.2        9.1        37        3
b. Water Supply. Wastewater and Sanitation
i. Village Systems                                                                1.         1.|       3.         I          4
ii. Municipal Systems                                                              I|        1.2|       2._        11        4
Subtota       3.4        2.8       6.2         25        4
c. Technical Assistance                                                               0.5       1.1        1._         6        7
Subtotal Rehabilitation and Improvemen        9.1        7.1      16.9        6          4
11. Maintenance Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure Assets
i. Village                                                                        0.        0.         0.
ii. Municipal                                                                      1.        0.|        2.         I         3
iii. Regional Roads                                                                0.3_       0.2|      0.:         2         3
Subtota       1.9        1.0        2.         12        35
b. Technical Assistance                                                         _0.1            0.2        0.:         I         A
Subtotal Maintenanc         2.        1.2        3.         1
HI. Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure & Community Services                                               0.         0.|        0.
b. Technical Assistance                                                                   __0 0_  ___ O
Subtotal Neighborhood UpgradinE        0.1        0./        0. _          _
Subtotal Part A       11.8        8.3      20.          8(        41
Part B: Local Government Reform and Capacity Building
1. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for MLG
a. Legal and Institutional Framework                                                 0.1        0.1        0.
b. Program Management and Training                                                   0.3        0.2        0.          2         3
c. O&M Programming                                                                    0.        0.2        0.                    3
d. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                                          0.2       0.1        0.          I         3
e. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                                    0.2        0.1        0.          1        3
f. Public Information Program                                                        0.1        0.1        0.          I        35
Subtotal TA for MLG         1.        0.i        2.          ! 
[n. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for SMs
a. Program Management and Training                                                   0.2        0.1        0.          I        3
b. O&M Programming                                                                   0.3        0.         0.          2        3
c. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                                          0.2       0.1        0.          I         3
d. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                                     0.2       0.1        0.           |        3
e. Public Information Program                                                         0.2|       0.1       0.          I         31
Subtotal TA for SM     _  1._        0.6 _                  6         3.
Subtotal Part B        2.         1.3        3.         15        3
part C: Project Management & Incremental Operating Expenses
a. Incremental Operating Expenses                                                     0.2       0.0        0.          I
b. Training and Studies                                                               0.        0.1                   I         7
c. Vehicles, Equipment. Materials and Spares for MLG and SMs                          0.        0.5        0.          2        I
d. Vehicles. Equipment. Materials and Spares for Project Management                   0.        0.         0.          I        I
e. Consultants' Services                                                              0.(       0._ ]      0._ (__
Subtotal Part          0.3        0.9        1.4         5        74
Total Base Cos        14.5       10.5      25.         10         4
Physical Contingenc       1.         11        2.          1         4
Price Contingenc       0.         0.3       0.           3
Total Project CoS        16.4,      11.       28.         113        4
Notes:
1. All costs are net of taxes and duties
2. All numbers have been rounded



Annea 11
Page 5 of 7
Table 5: Distribution of Project Costs in Gaza (USS million)
Pat A: Rehabilitajlon ah..' Improv meat
1. Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-P-rsramI
a. Roads
i. Village (access and internal' Roads                                              0.3       0.2        0.          3         3
ii. Municipal Roads                                                                 1.3        0.7        2.1        I          3
iii. Regional Roads                                                                  0.         0; .21    0.                    3
Subtota        2.         1.1       3.1        21         3
b. Water Supply. Wastewater and Sanitatioc.
i. Village Systems                                                                  0.        0.         0.
ii. Municipal Systems                                                               0ol        0.0        0._  
Subtota       0.         0.1        0.          (
c. Technical Assistance                                                                0.1        0.         0.          2         m
Subtotal Rehabilitation and Improvemen         2.1        1.3        3.         23
11. Maintenance Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure Assets
i. Villagc                                                                          0.0       0.         0.
ii. Municipal                                                                       1.         1.         2.         2          3
iii. Regional Roads                                                                  0.2        0.1       0.          ;2l
Subtota        2.1       1.1        3.         21         3
b. Technical Assistance                                                                0.1        0.2        0.         ;27
Subtotal Maintenanc         2.2        1.3        3.         D
m. Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program
a. Infrastructure & Community Services                                                 2.         1.5        4.         2          3
b. Technical Assistance                                                                0.1        0.3        0.          3
Subtotal Neighborhood Upgrading         2.8        1.1        4.         31         3
Subtotal Part A         7.1        4.4      11.          71
Pan B: Local Govermnent Reform and Capacity Buildin,
1. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for MLG
a. Legal and Institutional Framework                                                   0.1        0.1        0. 
b. Program Management and Training                                                     0.2        0.1        0.                    3
c. O&M Programming                                                                     0.3        0.1        0.          3         3
d. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                                           0.2        0.1        0.                    3
e. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                                      0.1        0.1        0.          1         3
f. Public Information Program                                                          0.1        0.         0.1         1         3
Subtotal TA for MLG         0.9        0.         1          11         3
11. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Sub-Program for SMs
a. Program Management and Training                                                     0.2        0.1        0.                    3
b. O&M Programming                                                                     0.2        0.1        0.                    3
c. Capital Investment Policy and Programming                                           0.1        0.1        0.          1         3
d. Revenue Structure and Strategy                                                      0.1        0.1        0.          1         3
e. Public Information Program                                                          0.1        0.1        0.          1         3
Subtotal TA for Sli        0.7        0.         1.1                   3
Subtotal Part E         1.6        0.9       2.5         1         3
Part C: Project Management & Incremental Operating Expenses
a. Incremental Operating Expenses                                                      0.1        0.         0.1          1
b. Training and Studies                                                                0.         0.1        0.1          1        7
c. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials and Spares for MLG and SMs                           0.         0.3        0.                   1
d. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials and Spares for Project Management                    0.         0.2        0.           1
e. Consultants' Services                                                               0.1        0.1        0.                    7
Subtotal Part C         0.2        0.6       0.           !         71
Total Base Cos          8.9        5.9      14.         101
Physical Contingenc        0.        0.         1.
Price Contingenc        0.3        0.2       0.           3
Total Project Cos         10.1        6.7      16.         11         4
Notes:
1. All costs are net of taxes and duties
2. All numbers have been rounded



Annex 11
Page 6 of 7
Table 6: Details of First Year Core Sub-Projects
1.Reilation & Improvement
aRods:
i.  Village Roads
1. Several Villages        Nablus                 0.45        4 km          16,500         Rehabilitation and upgrading of village access
(Yutma, Beita, ...)
ii. Municipal Roads:
1. lenin City             Jenin                    1.24      11 km           6,000         Rehabilitation of internal roads stage I
iii. Regional Roads:
1. Gaza                    Gaza                    1.36      12 km         200,000         Rehabilitation of major link roads stage I
2. Jenin major link roads    Jenin                 0.90      15 km         213,000          Minor rehab. of major roads stage I
b. Water and Waatewater:
i.  Village Systems
1. Beita                   Nablus                 0.23      500 m'           5,800         Water reservoir
2. Jamnain                 Nablus                  0.58      15 km           4,700          New water network
3. Ajiah                   lenin                   0.34       6 km            3,500        Water network expansion and reservoir
ii. Municipal Systems:
1. Ya'bad                  Jenin                  0.57       27 km          11,600         New water network and booster pump
2. Bethlehem City          Bethlehem               0.45      17 km          37,100         Rehab. of water network
3. Hebron City             Hebron                  0.57       5 km          20,000         Rehab. of sewerage network
4. Tulkarem City           Tulkarem                0.79       7 km          20,000          Rehab. of sewerage network
Sub-total                          7.48        n.a.
11. Maintenance
i.  Villages!'                 n.a.                    0           n.a.            n.a.
ii. Municipalities
1. Hebron                  Hebron                 0.30         n.a.         97,000         Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
2. Nablus                  Nablus                  0.40        n.a.         105,000         Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
3. Jenin                   Jenin                   0.14        n.a.         25,000         Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
4. Gaza City               Gaza                    0.70        n.a.         308,000         Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
5. Rafah                   Gaza                    0.20        n.a.          83,000         Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
iii. Regional Roads"'          n.a.                    0           n.a.            n.a.
Sub-total                          1.74        n. a.
111. Neighborhood Upgrading
1. El-Turkman (Gaza City)        Gaza                    1.40        n.a.            5,800        Infrastructure and community facilities
Sub-total                          1.40        n. a.
GRAND TOTAL    (17 sub-projects)          10.62        n.a.
I/   Costs include contingencies but exclude taxes and duties. Numbers are rounded up.
2/   Estimates are approximate and include direct and indirect beneficiaries. Total cannot be summed as this would result in double counting.
3/   Maintenance Program for Villages/Regional Roads expected to start after Year 2.



Annex 11
Page 7 of 7
Table 7: Details of Second Year Core Sub-Projects
1. Rehabiltation & Improvement
a. Roads:
i.  Village Roads
I. Arrabeh-Fahmeh-Kufr    Jenin                   0.68       5.8km           15,000        Rehab. & upgrading access roads
Ra'i
2. Jinnsafout, fundoq and    Tulkarem              0.45     8.5 km            3.000         Rehab. & upgrading access roads
several others
3. Beit Ummar, Safa,       Hebron                  0.33     2.8 km            3,300         Rehab. & upgrading of internal roads
Khirbet Al Deir
4. Kharas                  Hebron                  0.12     1.1 km            4,400         Rehab. of access roads
ii. Municipal Roads:
1. Qaiqilla                Tulkarem                1.47     5.0 km           2,500         Upgrading and rehab. of 26 roads, state I
2. Nuseirat                Gaza                    0.76      1.5 km          10,500         Upgrading internal roads
3. Rafah City              Gaza                    0.90      1.9 km          60.000         Upgrading of Road # 33 and 4
b. Water,Wastewater and
Sanitation:
i.  Village Systems            Ramallah                0.34     3.6 km            1,400         New water nietwork
1. Al Mughair              Tulkarem               0.95      4.0 km           3,500         New water network and reservoir
2. Baqa Al Sharqiyah       Hebron                  0.23     2.0 km            4,800         New water network
3. Al Shiyoukh             Jenin                   1.36      16 km           12,900         New water network
4. Yamoun
ii. Municipal Systems:         Nablus                  0.51        n.a.          10,500        Pumping Units
1. Nablus City             Jenin                   0.68      14 km          24,600         Rehab. sewerage network
2. Jenin City
Sub-total                          8.78        n. a.
11. Maintenance
i.  Villages"                  n.a.                    0           n.a.            n.a.
ii. Municipalities1'
1. Hebron                  Hebron                 0.30         n.a.         97,000         Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
2. Nablus                  Nablus                  0.40        n.a.         105,000         Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
3. Jenin                   lenin                   0.14        n.a.         25,000          Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
4. Gaza City               Gaza                    0.70        n.a.        308,000          Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
5. Rafah                   Gaza                    0.20        n.a.          83,000         Routine and periodic maintenance by contract
iii. Regional Roads3'          n.a.                    0           n.a.            n.a.
Sub-total                          1.74        n.a.
Ill. Neighborhood Upgrading
1. El-Darj (Gaza City)           Gaza                    1.30         n.a.           5,900        Infrastructure and community facilities
Sub-total                          1.30        n.a.
GRAND TOTAL    (19 sub-projects)          11.82        n.a.
1/   Costs include contingencies but exclude all taxes and duties. Numbers are rounded up.
2/   Estimates are approximate and include direct and indirect beneficiaries. Total cannot be summed as this would result in double counting.
3/   Maintenance Program for Villages/Regional Roads expected to start after Year 2.
4/   Ongoing Maintenance Program in 5 SMs.



Annex 12
Page I of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Arrangements, Implementation Responsibility Matrix,
and Organization and Flow Charts
1.     This annex summarizes the implementation arrangements for the project. It consists of an
Implementation Responsibility Matrix, a Basic Organizational Arrangement Chart (Chait 1), a Funds
Flow and Accounts. Flowchart (Chart 2), a Monitoring and Reporting FlowcLart (Chart 3), and a note
(Appendix A) and a-n org-nization chart on MLG.
Implementation Responsibility Matrix
E .  i.- X . ...... . .                                                 ............. :..  .-E::.-      -i: i:::  -E:i:!--i:    .lE    i-.:i:iE-E:,:-E--:
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  .....l ................e:
Inter-Ministerial Steering       To be established ty EAPC 2 months prior to LG elections:
Committee (IMSC)                 Composition: MLG, MOF, MOPIC, MOI, MOT. MOW, PWA,
PECDAR; IMSC members and Chairman appointed by EAPC;
MLG provides secretariat support; IMSC meets as necessary, but at
least quarterly (monthly for first 3 months) to review progress,
resolve problems, and make recommendations to EAPC.
2. Overall Program and Project
Coordination:
PECDAR and MLG, in               MLG, MOT/MOW, PECDAR, PWA, MOF, MOPIC and SMs
consultation with MOT/MOW        meet as and when necessary, but at least annually (monthly for first
(for regional roads)             3 months), to review program and resolve problems.
Program and Project Planning and Implementation
Part "A" Infrastructure Rehabilitation, Improvement Component:
PECDAR: Municipal and Village       General: PECDAR responsible on the basis of Implementation
Program, in consultation and with   Agreement (MLG-PECDAR, and MOT/MOW-PECDAR); MLG
assistance of MLG and PWA (water  and SMs also enter into Implementation Agreements for SM
and sanitation );                   components; Implementation Agreements subject to annual review,
PECDAR: Regional Roads, in          but modifications must be satisfactory to IDA; on all works,
consultation and with assistance of    PECDAR liaises with appropriate ministry or implementing agency,
MOT/MOW                             monitors progress and expenditure on monthly and quarterly basis;
PECDAR in conjunction with MOF also prepares initial and
periodic disbursement requests to IDA; parties meet as and when
necessary, but at least quarterly, to review progress and solve
problems.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 7
:. .. .. . . . .     ...     ...    ...- ,        ,.:.  .:                :   : . .. . . . .
..........&...... ...                                 ATACIMTIESITIES
(I)    Rehabilitation and Improvement Sub-Program:
(a) Villages: Roads, and    Under Implementation Agreement and in close consultation with
Water, Wastewater and    MLG, PECDAR fully responsible for project preparation and
Sanitation              implementation including procurement; PECDAR responsible for
procurement, contracts and contractual arrangements, but may
subcontract works valued at less than $0.05 m to villages.
(b) Municipalities: Roads,
and Water, Wastewater
and Sanitation
(i)  SMs:               Under Implementation Agreements SMs fully responsible for
implementation (including works procurement, contracts
management, monitoring and reporting); SMs prepare monthly,
quarterly and annual progress and financial statements; and SMs
liaise closely with PECDAR through MLG on financial and progress
monitoring and reporting; SMs also responsible for procurement,
contracts and contractual arrangements; PECDAR responsible for
payments.
(ii) Municipalities     Under Implementation Agreement and in close consultation with
other than SMs:    MLG, PECDAR fully responsible for project preparation and
MLG, with the       implementation, but may subcontract works valued at less than $0.5
assistance of       m to municipalities.
PECDAR, in
consultation with
relevant
Municipality
(c) Regional Roads:         Under Implementation Agreement and in close consultation with
PECDAR in consultation   MOT/MOW, PECDAR fully responsible for project preparation,
with MOT/MOW            implementation, including procurement, contracts and contractual
arrangements.
(1I)   Maintenance Sub-Program:
(a) Village: MLG and        MLG/MOW and Villages enter into Memoranda of Understanding;
Villages with assistance    Memoranda subject to annual review; during year, MOW &
from MOW                Villages fully responsible for implementation (including
procurement, contracts management, monitoring and reporting);
PECDAR responsible for payments.
(b) Municipalities other    MLG and Municipalities enter into Memoranda of Understanding;
than SMs: MLG and       under Memorandum, Municipalities fully responsible for
Municipalities          implementation (including procurement, contracts management,
monitoring and reporting); Municipalities liaise closely with
PECDAR through MLG on financial and progress monitoring and
reporting; PECDAR responsible for payments.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 7
(c) Regional: Roads;       MOT/MOW  fully responsible for implementation of (including
MOT/MOW                 procurement, contracts management, monitoring and reporting); they
prepare monthly, quarterly and annual progress and financial
statements; they also liaise closely with PECDAR on financial and
progress monitoring and reporting; PECDAR responsible for
payments.
(Im) Neighborhood Upgrading Sub-Program:
(a) SMs:                    Under Implementation Agreements, SMs fully responsible for
implementation (including works procurement, contracts
management, monitoring and reporting); SMs prepare monthly,
quarterly and annual progress and financial statements; SMs also
liaise closely with PECDAR through MLG on financial and progress
monitoring and reporting; PECDAR responsible for payments.
(b) Outside of SMs:         Under Implementation Agreement and in close consultation with
MLG and Municipalities, PECDAR fully responsible for project
preparation and implementation, but may subcontract works valued
at less than $0.5 m to municipalities.
Part "B" Local Government Reform and Capacity Building Component:
MLG coordinates components, including ensuring establishment of
(I)    MLG TA and Capacity        IMSC and TCs, also provides secretarial services, organizes
Building:                   workshops, commissions studies, training, etc.; MLG implements
recommendations and finding, liaises closely with PECDAR on
MLG                         financial and progress monitoring and reporting; PECDAR
responsible for payments.
(II)   SM TA and Capacity         SMs coordinate own components, including ensuring establishment
Building:                   of Steering Committee and working groups; they also provide
secretariat services, organize workshops, commission studies,
SMs, in consultation with  training, etc.; SMs implement recommendations and finding, liaise
MLG                        closely with MLG and PECDAR on financial and progress
monitoring and reporting; PECDAR responsible for payments.
PART "C" Project Management and Incremental Operating Expenses Component:
PECDAR in consultation with MLG,  General: Under Implementation Agreement and in consultation with
MOT/MOW and MOF                   MLG and MOT/MOW, PECDAR implements all components.
PECDAR monitors progress and expenditure on monthly and
quarterly basis; PECDAR in conjunction with MOF prepares
periodic disbursement requests to IDA; PECDAR also prepares
quarterly and annual progress reports and financial statements for
MLG, MOT/MOW, MOF, IMSC and IDA; parties meet as and
when necessary, but at least quarterly, to review progress and solve
problems



Annex 12
Page 4 of 7
(I)    Project Accounting, Reporting, Management Support and Auditing:
PECDAR liaises closely with MLG and other implementing
agencies, and prepares quarterly and annual progress reports and
financial statements for MLG, MOT/MOW, MOF and IMSC
through MOF to IDA; PECDAR also maintains overall project
accounts for MLG, commissions audits, and manages replenishment
of SA; parties meet as and when necessary, but at least quarterly, to
review progress and solve problems
(II)    Consultants TA:
PECDAR, in consultation with       PECDAR, MLG and MOF hire consultants for themselves where
MLG, MOT/MOW and SMs               necessary, and PECD)AR makes payments in consultation with these
Ministries.
(III)  Procurement of Vehicles, Equipment, Supplies and Spare Parts, including Bulk rrocurement
for items requred for MLG, SMs and PECDAR:
PECDAR, in consuation with         PECDAR liaises closely with MLG and odier implementing
MLG, MOT/MOW and SMs               agencies, and procures on their behalf and for PECDAR's own
needs



Annex 12
Page 5 of 7
Chart 1: Basic Organizational Arrangement
JDNO              TFGVPL;
EPC
-DO     v  =  =-  MOF
MO               c                                     lLG
i3~~~ ____ _---   j
MOW *4                               *IPEC
&~~~~~
I   I           1    1 [                X          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  I
Vilaes &sms
Municipalities
Consultants/Contractors
- *  Consultant/Contractor support
4     * - - 0 Consultation
-   Credit Agreement



Annex 12
Page 6 of 7
Chart 2: Funds Flow and Accounts
MOT/          ECA             MLG
du b~~~~~~~u
Consultants/Contractors
Notes:
CNA: Control Account
SA : Special Account
All payments are made through PECDAR
- - - - - - Credit Agreement



Annex 12
Page 7 of 7
Chart 3: Monitoring and Reporting
PLO
,               .                1 14       ff=LDX=01~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
EAPC
MOT/~~~~~
mow              PECML
*                   X   n   ____    7
Municipal~ibes
Consultants/Contractors
---*   Monitoring and reporting relationship
4      * -   Consultatve relationship



Annex 12
Appendix A
The Ministry of Local Government (MLG)
1.    This ministry is responsible for both the implementation of EAPC policy at the local levels and
the representation of local government issues at the central level. As is the case with most newly
established central bodies, MLG has been striving to establish a viable role for itself within its mandate,
with mixed success. The ministry has promoted a number of village councils to municipal status and the
smaller and weaker municipalities appear to look to the ministry for support, assistance and guidance,
however, the bigger and more capable municipalities worry that MLG intrudes unduly into their sphere
of authority. The ambiguity of the legal situation and other factors (discussed in Annex 2) have no doubt
contributed to this unease, nevertheless, there are reasons to believe that roles acceptable to the various
interests may readily be negotiated. Among these reasons are the relatively small size of the ministry,
which precludes a pervasive intrusive role by the MLG and the strong core of its leadership which is
oriented towards building more autonomous local governments.
2.     The total staff of the ministry is 134 persons (60%  technical and professional and 40%
administrative) distributed among the leadership core and its staff functions, five central line departments
and thirteen provincial offices (see Chart 4 Appendix A on the next page). The Finance and
Administration Department is divided into two sections, one responsible for MLG's own establishment
and financial affairs and the other responsible for audits and inspections of accounts of the local
governments. The Inspectorate and Follow-up Department is responsible for broad performance
monitoring and for the establishment of new village councils and municipalities. The Planning and Zoning
Department prepares plans for areas outside of municipalities, but also appears to have some
responsibility for the plans of municipalities. The Engineering Department is responsible for the review
of local and regional infrastructure projects. There is potential overlap in the responsibilities of this
department with those of other central agencies such as PECDAR and the Ministries of Transportation
and Works; this is an issue to be resolved under the framework proposed by this project. A Research and
Development Department is planned but is not yet fully functioning. The provincial level offices are
intended to have representatives of the central departments at that level, thus approximately 13-15 staff
are proposed for each such office, however, these are currently, lightly staffed (about 3 or 4 staff each).
3.    In view of current budgetary constraints, MLG proposes to initiate the capacity building program
by establishing an internal committee of the key department heads and chaired by the Deputy Minister
to over see the efforts. This committee will have a secretariat with a staff of seven, three and a secretary
seconded from existing departments and three consultants hired full time under this project. This
arrangement will be reviewed after six months to determine whether addition resources should be added
and after a year to determine whether the unit should become part of the MLG establishment.



Annex 12
Appendix A
Chart 4: MLG Organization
|Secretary |
rDeputy
MinisterI
Public Relations hTL
!Legal Adviso          
M      ~~Director|
GeneralI
anningring Research&  Finance &  Inspectore       Directors of
Planning [~eerin~     Development         Adu.& Follow-upvice



4  5_6___7___ _9_ _121__2__3_ 44 6  7  S       .  12  6 2  3  4  S  6  7    1 9  0 1   12  I  2  3  4  5  6  7    9   10 I  12  1 21 3 14  5 16171   s  9  01 11 12  1 21 3 14 151 6  7
Key Proessin. and Revne1 Dan                                                                                                                                                                                   l
Board Presnrtatioti
Effectiweos
Projed Implaenetall
Part A Coraponent 
. Rehabilitation and PinprovemenE Program
a. FirstYmearnvesuonen                                                                         
b. Second Year Investment                   _                       _  _
c. Third Year Investment                                                                         .
d. Fourth Year Investment
11. Maintenance Program
a. First Year Invenstent
b. Second Year Investment
c. Third Year Investmcnt
cFourth Yea Investment
III. Neighborhood Upgrading Program
a. First Year Investment                                           _         T1
c. Third Year Investmentz
c. Fourth Yea Investment
Part  B Components                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
I. MLG Program
II.  SMSMProgrmm
Part C Componen1s
I Consultant Services. Studies and Traintng
11. Vehicles, equipment, Supplies and Spares   |          |   :  :      _  _  _  -           _



Annex 14
Page I of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Development Impact and Output Monitoring Indicators!',
- ; - - - , ;   ,     *   *. .* . .* .* . . .. ..* .* . . .* . *. . .. . . . . . .....  ... .... .
4~*6      .... ..                                   ...
i. Development Output and Impact Indicators&', 31
A. Removing Critical Infrastructure Bottlenecks and Improving Quality of Life in Low Income
Neighborhoods
1.  Kilometers of Village, Municipal and
Regional Roads rehabilitated and/or      10         30         60          90         100
constructed
2.  Number of Villages/Municipalities
benefitting from improvements to         5          10          15         20         30
Water, Wastewater and Sewerage
Systems
3.  Number of Households living in
Upgraded Project Neighborhoods           50        250         1000       2000       3000
4.  Number of beneficiaries of
infrastructure and service improvements     to be assessed during project implementation
B.  Preserving Existing Infrastructure Assets
5.  5 SMs develop and implement a well
funded and a sustainable O&M                        Q3
programn
C.  Creating Productive Employment
6.  Number of direct person-years of
employment created                      250        1000        2000       3000       3500
D.  Strengthening the LG System
i. Rationalizing Roles
7.  EAPC adopt new LG law incorporating
a clear and efficient specification of  Q3
municipal roles and responsibilities
ii Building Capacity
1/     Indicator relates to achievement of some quantitative target or completion of a specified task by a
specified time. Quantitative indicators are cumulative.
2/     Detailed output indicators for infrastructure components are in Project File (Annex 19).
3/     Details for B, C and D are provided in Annex 9 and 10.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
','~~~~~~.,'              ''.'.'-.'' . ,  '.'.'.''"f '''............  ........               ...  X.. ..W
.,,,,,   ,,.  ,  ,. . v ~~~~~~~~~...........     .  ............... 
8. SMs begin implementing new
standardized accounting and financial
management systems and procedures on                      Q4
a trial basis, begin making increased
provision for maintenance, and begin
implementing increased cost recovery
measures
9. SMs fully adopt new financing,
investment, cost recovery and taxation
strategy, and complete reform of                                       Q3
financial management and accounting
systems
10. SMs develop sustainable O&M
program and programming capacityi'                        Q3
11. MOF and MLG develop sustainable
LG investment program and                                              Q3
programming and review capacity
II.  Economic Validation Survey5'
1.   Undertake further data collection on     Q4
first and second year roads, water, and
wastewater subprojects to test econ.
model and confirm minimum 14% ERR
2.   Using validation data collected above                 Ql
and further survey data, refine econ
analysis for balance of subprojects;
revise subproject list accordingly
4/      Same as Indicator No. 5 above.
5/      See Annex 18 for details.



Annex 15
Page 1 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
1.    The project elements and their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for the
components to be financed by IDA are summarized in Table 1. Recurrent and other local costs financed
by the EAPC are shown under the heading NIF (non-IDA financed). The General Procurement Notice
would be published in the UN Development Business.
2.     All equipment and materials, works and services to be financed under the project jointly, or
solely, by IDA would be procured in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995
and as revised in January 1996). WBG manufacturers competing under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the
prevailing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they can prove
that labor, raw materials and component from within WBG account for more than 30 percent of the ex-
works, ex-factory or off-the-shelf prices. WBG contractors competing under ICB for civil works
contracts would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 7.5 percent.
3.    Equipment and materials required for the project will consist of computer systems and
peripherals, software systems, telecommunications, office equipment, books, training aids and related
supplies, vehicles for project management and supervision, and tools equipment and spares for project
sub-components, particularly Maintenance. Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost more
than US$250,000 equivalent each will be procured through ICB, using IDA's Standard Bidding
Documents modified to suit the requirements of individual project packages. Contracts for office
equipment and supplies, and electrical fixtures are likely to be won by local suppliers. International
shopping (IS) with at least three quotations from three eligible countries will be used for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$250,000 and not to exceed US$1,000,000 in the aggregate. Local
shopping with at least three quotations will be used for off-the-shelf items costing less than US$25,000
per package and not to exceed US$500,000 in the aggregate. Direct Contracting (DC) will be allowed
for items of a proprietary nature or items required to ensure compatibility with the already installed
equipment.
4.    Civil works contracts will be packaged taking into account such factors as the nature of the
works, state of preparation and implementation capacity of local contractors and implementing agencies.
Works contracts costing less than US$3 million, with the exception of those requiring special construction
and installation expertise, are not expected to be of interest to foreign contractors. These contracts are
many ( 60-70), relatively small and widely dispersed geographically, with several implementing agencies--
mainly the municipalities and PECDAR. Specialized contracts and works contracts costing more than
US$3 million per contract will be procured through ICB using IDA's Standard Bidding Documents for
Civil Works (Small Contracts) modified to suit the requirements of individual works. All other works
contracts will be awarded under National Competitive Bidding (NCB, procedures following the
implementing agei,ies' normal procurement procedures. Very small works, Such as street cleaning,
trench rehabilitation, -tc., "'ill be done using the municipalities' existing work force. 77he pre-1967
procurement laws of Egypt (v-th some elements of the Palestine Mandate Law and israeli Civil
Administration regulations) and Jordan are in force in Gaza and the West Bank, respectively. The
procurement procedures described by these laws are being followed by the municipalities and local



Annex 15
Page 2 of 3
administrative units. These are satisfactory to IDA with the following provisos: (i) tenders will be
advertised for at least two consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective
bidders will be allowed a minimum of 30 days between the first appearance of notification and bid
submission; (iii) bidding documents will follow the formats of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents; (iv)
if interested, foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids, and will not be required to have local agents
to be able to participate in bidding; (v) bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and
hand-carried bids will be accepted; (vi) all bids will be opened at the same time in public; (vii) contracts
will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) bidders will not be asked, nor allowed, to change
the substance of their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with the lowest evaluated
bidder will be confined to those cases listed in IDA's Procurement Guidelines; and (ix) in the absence
of prequalification, postqualification criteria will be explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
5.     Consultancy assignments will involve both individual consultants, consulting firms and
departments of West Bank universities. The selection of consultants will be in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981), using IDA's standardized Letter of Invitation (LOI) and Sample Form of Contract
for Consultants' Services [or the standard form of contract used when IDA is the Executing Agency].
There will be a total of about 30-40 assignments valued at about US$14.5 million. Major assignments
will be for: inter-city roads implementation; detailed preparation of core sub-projects in water,
wastewater, sanitation and municipal roads sectors; detailed preparation of the maintenance and upgrading
sub-programs; and numerous consultancy assignments directed at assisting the LG reform process (Part
"B" of the project) at both central and local levels. Training services will be obtained mostly through
local consulting organizations and the universities, or through specialized UN agencies such as ILO.
There are several local consultants (including the management departments of the universities) with the
requisite experience and background. Therefore, their participation in the project assignments is expected
to be high.
6.    Due to PECDAR's experience with international commercial practices and IDA's procurement
procedures (acquired under ERP), all significant procurement activities under the project will be
coordinated by or with PECDAR. PECDAR's Procurement Unit will be responsible for (i) coordinating
and monitoring all procurement activities of the implementing agencies; (ii) taking actions required by
the Grant Agreement's prior or post review provisions; (iii) conducting all ICB and Technical Assistance
related procurement; and (iv) maintaining the records required for accountability in the use of grant
funds. To ensure compliance with IDA's Procurement Guidelines, all contracts awarded through ICB,
as well as all civil works contracts above US$250,000 and all consultant appointments above US$100,000
for consulting firms and US$50,000 for individuals, and the first two contracts of each implementing
agency will be subject to prior IDA review. These limits would result in prior review of a sufficiently
large number of contracts (approximately 90 percent of all procurement contracts) to ensure that IDA's
Procurement Guidelines are followed. In addition, all other contracts will be subject to selective ex-post
review by IDA.



Annex 15
Page 3 of 3
Table 1. Procurement Methods and Arrangements
(US$ million)
. ....... ... ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       Otu        Tta
1.     Works:
a) West Bank                                         3.9         15.6        1.0       20.5
(3.3)      (13.2)     (0.9)"     (17.4)
b) Gaza                                                           9.8        2.0       11.8
(8.2)     (1.8)f!    (10.0)
2.     Vehicles, Equipment Supplies and Spares:Y
a) West Bank SMs                                                             0.5        0.5
(0.5)&'    (0.5)
b) Gaza SMs                                                                 0.4         0.4
(0.4)9     (0.4)
c) MLG, MOT/MOW  and PECDAR                                                  0.5        0.5
(0.5)&8    (0.5)
3.     Technical Assistance, Consultancies, Studies and
Training:f'
a) West Bank Works                                                           2.0        2.0
(2.0)      (2.0)
b) Gaza Works                                                                1.3        1.3
(l.3)L'    (1.3)
c) Local Government Capacity-Building                                        7.1        7.1
(7. 1)#    (7.1)
d) Project Management                                                       0.6         0.6
_ (0.6)L'_    (0.6)
4.     Incremental Operating Expenses:f'                                            0.3         0.3
(0.2)      (0.2)
Total     3.9         25.4      15.7        45.0
(3.3)      (21.4)    (15.3)      (40.0)
Notes:
a/  Includes physical and price contingencies and figures have been rounded. Taxes and duties are excluded.
b/  IDA contribution shown in parenthesis.
c/  Includes provision for selected municipalities (SMs), MLG, MOT/MOW, and PECDAR.
d/  Includes sub-projects as well as the consultants employed to participating municipalities, MLG, MOT/MOW, and
PECDAR.
e/  Includes incremental salaries, office rents, utilities and vehicle operating costs for 4 years,
f/  Force account.
g/  International shopping (US$1,000,000) and local shopping (US$500,000).
h/  In accordance with Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981).



Annex 16
Page I of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Disbursement Categories/Sub-Categories
(US$ millionYa
..   .  ... ..   ..   ..     ..    .. ...  .. , . . ., . . . .   .. . . . . ......    .... 
Amount of                  Percent of
........--..: te y       -- Credit                 -      Expenditures tobe Financed
1. Works:                                                                       100 percent in years I and 2: 75
(a) Rehabilitation and Improvement (except for Regional        13.8         percent in years 3 and 4
Roads
(b) Rehabilitation and Improvement of Regional Roads           2.7
(c) Maintenance of Municipal and Village Infrastructure        4.8
Systems
(d) Maintenance of Regional Roads                              0.6
(e) Neighborhood Upgrading                                     3.7
2. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials, Supplies and Spares             1.3          100 percent
3. Technical Assistance, Consultant Services, Studies and                       100 percent
Training:
(a) Rehabilitation and Improvement (except for Regional         1 4
Roads
(b) Rehabilitation and Improvement of Regional Roads           0.4
(c) Maintenance of Municipal and Village Infrastructure        0.4
Systems
(d) Maintenance of Regional Roads                              0.1
(e) Neighborhood Upgrading                                     0.4
(f)  Local Government Reform and Capacity-Building              5.8
(g) Project Management                                         0.3
4. Incremental Operating Expenses-!                                0.3          100 percent in years I and 2: 75
percent in years 3 and 4
5. Unallocated                                                     4.0
Total Credit Amount:        40.0
Notes:
a/ Taxes and duties are excluded and figures have been rounded.
b/ Incremental operating expenses includes salaries, rent. utilities arid vehicle operating costs for 4 years.



Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
Table 2: Quarterly Disbursement Schedule2'
',' '.'""'''"',~~~~~.'"".':.,                                        .......,  , .. .  .
97V         1              4.0g.               4.0                10
97           2              2.0                 6.0               15
97           3              2.0                 8.0               20
97           4              2.0                10.0               25
98           1              2.0                12.0               30
98           2              2.0                14.0               35
98           3              2.0                16.0               40
98  _        4              2.0                18.0               45
99           1              3.0                21.0               53
99           2              3.0                24.0               60
99           3              3.0                27.0               68
99           4              3.0                30.0               75
2000           1              3.0                33.0                83
2000           2              2.0                35.0                88
2000           3              2.0                37.0                93
2000"'         4               3.0               40.0               100
.otes:
a/   Figures have been rounded.
bl   FY: July I to June 30.
c/   July 1, 1996 effectiveness assumed.
d/   Constitutes disbursements from retroactive financing.
_/   Closing Date December 31, 2000.
Disbursement Profile
fe 40.0 r----------                     ..--    . ...- 
, l30.0 1---------   _ 
20.0 -                      t           ~~
10.0
X11    10.0   D    -  4.
t   QI/97   Q3   Q1198   Q3  QQ/99   Q3   QtIOO   Q3   Ql/ol
Q!17    Q3    Q1.9 __.__._   _ ___. . .F



Annex 17
Page 1 of 6
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Aspects
1.    APPLICABLE ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEDURES AND REVIEW PROCESS
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission to the West Bank and Gaza appraised the Municipal Infrastructure Development
Project (MIDP) during February 1996. This team included an environmental specialist from the Resident
Mission; consultations on specific issues were conducted at the field level with an enviromnental specialist
from the Environment Department of the Bank. The mission undertook, in cooperation with Palestinian
counterparts, a review of environmental aspects of activities to be supported in the proposed project.
During this period they conducted a series of site visits, and reviewed lists of potential sub-projects to
be considered for support under the proposed project.
2.    Applicability of Enviromnental Procedures. The following environrnental procedures would
apply to the review and implementation of the proposed project: (a) World Bank/IDA procedures
conceming environment, resettlement and cultural heritage as outlined in Operational Directive, 4.01,
"Environmental Assessment;" Operational Directive, 4.30 "Involuntary Resettlement;" and the guidance
of the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook and its Updates; (b) for Gaza, the pre-1967 legislation of
the Government of Egypt concerning water quality inspections by health authorities and provisions for
the protection of antiquities and historical monuments; and (c) for the West Bank, the pre-1967 legislation
of the Government of Jordan concerning water quality inspections by health authorities and provisions
for protection of antiquities and historical monuments.
3.    Development of New Procedures. The procedures of Egypt and Jordan would be phased out
of use as environmental procedures and guidelines are developed and issued for use by the Palestinian
Authority. The development of new environmental legislation and procedures, including environmental
standards and environmental assessment guidelines for use by the Palestinian Authority, is currently being
undertaken by the Environmental Planning Directorate (EPD) of the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation (MPIC); the Palestinian Department of Antiquities (PDA) of the Ministry of
Tourism and Antiquities (MTA) and the Ministry of Culture (MOC) are developing complementary
legislation and procedures for the conservation of cultural heritage. The Bank supported Technical Trust
Fund (TATF) and a number of donors are supporting these activities.
4.    Enviromnental Screening Category. The activities to be supported under the proposed project
have been reviewed with regard to the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment." The activities to be included in the proposed project have been placed in environmental
screening category "B" due to their limited scope and the restricted nature of their potential impacts. It
should be noted that feasibility studies for sub-projects to be included in the MIDP, will include the
preparation of reviews of potential environmental impacts and resettlement issues, and measures for the
protection of cultural heritage, consistent with IDA guidelines. The preparation of environmental
assessments (environmental screening category "A"), would be required if sub-projects are later identified
that support the construction of new large scale water supply reservoirs, water treatment plants,



Annex 17
Page 2 of 6
wastewater treatment plants and reuse systems, major roads or other types of new infrastructure which
have potentially significant environmental impacts.
5.     Applicability of Other Directives. A review was conducted concerning the possible application
of Operational Directive. 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement" to activities to be supported under the
proposed project. At present, there are no sub-project proposals whose implementation is anticipated to
result in involuntary resettlement; however, a number of activities will require the purchase by local
authorities of privately-held land from its owners. No known archaeological or historical sites are
anticipated to be affected by activities to be supported under the proposed project. However, given the
high density of archaeological and historical sites in the West Bank and Gaza, provisions will be made
in construction contracts for the use of "chance find" procedures should archaeological or historical
materials be discovered in the course of project implementation.
6.     Activity Review Process. IDA environmental assessment procedures would be used for the
review process until the Palestinian environmental assessment procedures are available for use, at which
time both sets of procedures would be in effect for project activities. Proposed activities to be supported
under the project would be subject to an environmental screening and review process which would be
coordinated by the environmental specialist assigned to the staff of the Palestinian Economic Council for
Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR), in coordination with representatives of EPD, PDA and
IDA. Proposed project activities, as appropriate, would be subject to the preparation of environmental
reviews consistent with category "B" project activities. To facilitate effective coordination with EPD and
PDA, direct contacts would be established with their representatives based in Ramallah for the West Bank
and Gaza City for Gaza.
7.     Pre-feasibility and feasibility studies supported under the proposed project for possible support
under future projects supported by IDA or other donor organizations would include the preparation of
environmental assessments or environmental reviews consistent with the requirements of EPD (when
available) and IDA. Formnal clearances would be obtained from the EPD and PDA for all sub-projects
proposed for funding under the project, consistent with current Palestinian environmental and cultural
heritage procedures. The Ministries of Local Government, Transport and Works along with the five
selected municipalities would be responsible for supervision of the implementation of required mitigation
and monitoring activities. Their performance of these functions would be periodically reviewed by EPD,
PDA and IDA. A set cf the sub-project environmental documents would be maintained by both PECDAR
and the Resident Mission which would include the environmental reviews, clearance letters from EPD
and PDA, and otlher appropriate documentation.
I.    REVIEW  OF ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND ACTIONS
A.    Programs with Enviromunental Concerns
(i)    Water and Wastewater Sector Program.
8.     Overview.  Activities to be supported under the proposed project would be focused on the
rehabilitation and completion or expansion of existing water and wastewater facilities. The project would
not provide for the construction of new wastewater treatment plants or sludge disposal facilities prior to
a detailed examniationi of interventions in this area, including their potential beneficial and adverse
environmental impacts.  Where possible, the project would draw on the expertise of previously
- -rr avr sniireonrnrv  zntiw ii: i iniimiar     iiii  fiiii wS- 



Annex 17
Page 3 of 6
established environmental monitoring systems to routinely monitor the quality of water and wastewater
at the level of the water and wastewater utility.
9.     Water Interventions. The proposed program of interventions in the water and wastewater sector
would have significant benefits to environmental health and environmental quality and would support the
conservation of limited water resources. Improvements to water supply, including the rehabilitation of
wells and disinfection systems, would result in more reliable access to safer water and reduce
contamination at source. Rehabilitation of distribution systems would allow for conservation of water
resources which are presently lost due to leaks. Expansion of piped water coverage to selected villages
would provide access to safer water and would improve health and overall living standards. Asbestos
cement pipes have been widely used in the West Bank and Gaza due to their low cost and durability.
Under the project they would only be replaced and/or repaired in locations where structural damage has
occurred or is anticipated due to physical conditions. Improved pressure and reliability of water supplies
would reduce infiltration of wastewater into water pipes during periods of negative pressure.
Establishment of a routine maintenance program should enhance the reliability and quality of the water
distributed.
10.    Wastewater Collection Interventions. Rehabilitation and expansion of the wastewater collection
networks would improve collection and conveyance of wastewater. Expanded and improved collection
networks would reduce present direct discharges to the groundwater table from vaults, abandoned cesspits
and leakage from poorly maintained collection systems. This intervention would reduce the periodic
flooding of streets with untreated wastewater and lower punlic health risks resulting from contact with
these materials. Establishment of facilities for wastewater testing would allow for the more accurate
characterization of wastewater which would be especially important in the long-term given their potential
for reuse.
Il.    Wastewater Treatment and Reuse Studies. The proposed support program would also include
review of existing and proposed investments in new and/or expanded wastewater treatment facilities. For
this purpose specialized consultants would be retained to review existing and proposed wastewater
treatment facilities, concerning their design standards, reliability of operation under local conditions and
possibilities for reuse of treated wastewater for groundwater recharge, irrigated agriculture and other
beneficial uses. They would be responsible for the preparation of modified or new process designs which
would include provisions for sludge treatment and monitoring of wastewater from the plants and within
reuse schemes.  These interventions would be implemented as priority steps to address control of
pollution now resulting from  the discharge of partially treated and/or untreated wastewater to surface
discharge points such as seasonally wet river beds ("wadis"). These studies would include: reviewing
the adequacy of provisions under existing legislation with respect to relevant current and future industrial
pollution issues and proposing improvements where necessary; and evaluating measures required for the
current and future control of industrial discharges in order to assure that the municipal wastewater flows
could be safely used for restricted reuse.
12.    Environmental Review of Proposed Wastewater Treatment and Reuse Activities. Provisions
have been made in the terms of reference for the consultants to include the preparation of environmental
reviews, as required by IDA Operational Directive, 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." The reviews
would address environmental concerns in an integrated manner as a key element of treatment technology
evaluation, site selection, plant design, system operation and monitoring. Environmental reviews would
be prepared with reference to the guidance provided in the IDA Environmental Assessment Sourcebook,
Volume 11, "Wastewater Collection. Treatment, Reuse and Disposal Systems," pages 231-244. Special



Annex 17
Page 4 of 6
attention would be given to analysis of potential risks to effective wastewater reuse presented by the
current and/or potential discharge of industrial wastewaters with or without pre-treatment into municipal
collection and treatment systems. Contractors would be briefed concerning measures to be taken should
they have "chance finds" of archaeological or historical materials
B.    Programs with Minor Environmental Issues
(i)    Regional Roads
13.   Proposed activities would focus on rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing road network
which is in serious disrepair. Potential direct environmental impacts would be limited to the proper
disposal of construction wastes from road repair and resurfacing operations. Measures would be required
to ensure that the proper disposal of these materials is monitored as an element of project supervision.
Contractors would be briefed concerning measures to be taken should they have "chance finds" of
archaeological or historical materials.
(ii)    Municipal and Village Roads
14.   The proposed program  would support the rehabilitation and upgrading of roads within
municipalities as well as village access and internal roads. The rehabilitation of such roads would include
improvements to surface drainage in areas with high potential for flooding. The road rehabilitation and
upgrading program would be anticipated to have minor environmental impact provided good design,
safety and supervision practices are implemented. Contractors would be briefed concerning measures to
be taken should they have "chance finds" of archaeological or historical materials.
(iii)   Maintenance Program
15.   The proposed program  would support the establishment of maintenance programs for
infrastructure assets at municipal level. This program would introduce activities that would ensure that
municipal services are regularly maintained to provide acceptable levels of service delivery. The
maintenance program is anticipated to have little environmental impact provided that good design, safety
and supervision practices are adopted and implemented.
(iv)   Neighborhood Upgrading Program
16.   The proposed neighborhood upgrading component would focus on providing basic infrastructure,
services and maintenance to existing lower-income communities where land tenure ownership or rights
are not in dispute or needing resolution. A range of basic improvements that would be provided are
intended to rapidly improve living conditions, remove hazards and enhance environmental conditions.
The project would support a wide range of small-scale activities, sometimes undertaken with direct
participation of the beneficiaries at the neighborhood level, which would have minimal adverse
environmental or social impact. The upgrading works would be designed so as to prevent the relocation
of residents, although there may be isolated cases where some temporary relocation during construction
may be necessary. Contractors and community residents would be briefed concerning measures to be
taken should they have "chance finds" of archaeological or historical materials.



Annex 17
Page 5 of 6
C.    Special Issue - Construction Materials Industry
17.   Implementation of the proposed project would require the extensive use of local construction
materials. Currently in both the West Bank and Gaza the illegal quarrying of rock, gravel and sand is
a serious problem resulting in considerable damage to public and private property. The illegal removal
of massive quantities of sand in Gaza has been identified by the EPD as a major environmental
management problem in coastal and inland sites. The PDA has also identified these operations as a major
cause of destruction, especially in Gaza, of antiquities. In addition, inadequately supervised rock, gravel
and sand operations could result in locally significant air pollution from dust, water pollution from
improper disposal of lubricants from heavy equipment, and localized flooding during storms due to the
transport of poorly controlled sediment from excavation sites into surface drainage features. While the
proposed project would not directly fund these operations, actions would be taken with local authorities
and contractors to attempt to minimize these problems. To support this objective, measures would be
adopted under the proposed project to assure that, to the extent possible under local conditions,
construction materials used are being collected from authorized sites which comply with Palestinian
environmental and cultural heritage procedures.
D.    Training in Environmental Review
18.   In order to support effective implementation of the proposed project, a series of three-day training
courses on the application of the Bank's procedures for environmental assessment, resettlement and
cultural heritage would be conducted in cooperation with EPD, PDA and the implementing agencies.
These courses would be conducted in Arabic and make use of the recently completed translations of
relevant Operational Directives, the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook (3 volumes) and selected
updates to the Sourcebook, including those on coastal zone management and cultural heritage. The
training sessions would use special training materials which are currently being prepared in Arabic and
would benefit from the experience gained from the EPD/EDI/MNA/ENV sponsored training seminar on
coastal zone management held in Gaza in 1995. These training activities would be coordinated with those
being supported by other organizations, especially CIDA, DANIDA and GTZ. Specific nieasures would
be taken to assure that the proposed IDA-supported training seminars fully complement the short-term
and international training activities for the water and wastewater sector, including environmental issues,
being undertaken by GTZ in the West Bank, Gaza and Germany.
E.    Coordination with Ongoing Activities
19.   Implementation of the proposed project would be coordinated with, but not limited to, the
following on-going activities:
(a)    Physical Planning Study. The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation is
preparing a physical planning study for the West Bank and Gaza, including special studies
for Jericho, Ramallah and Gaza City, with support from the Government of Norway;
(b)    Tourism Development Program. The Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities plans to
undertake preparation of a tourism development program for the West Bank and Gaza.
This activity is to be supported under the Technical Assistance Trust Fund (TATF);



Annex 17
Page 6 of 6
(c)    Cultural Resources Management Plan. The Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, in
coordination with the Ministry of Culture, plans to undertake preparation of a cultural
resources management program for the West Bank and Gaza. This activity is to be
supported under the TATF;
(d)    Gaza and West Bank Environmental Profile Process. The Environmental Planning
Directorate of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation is preparing an
Environmental Profile for Gaza with support from the Government of the Netherlands.
In addition, an Environmental Profile for the West Bank is planned to be prepared by
EPD with donor assistance;
(e)    Coastal Zone Management Program. The Environmental Planning Directorate of the
Ministry of Planning and International Coordination plans to undertake preparation of a
coastal zone management program for Gaza. This activity is to be supported under the
TATF; and
(f)    Bethlehem and Jericho Environmental Profiles. The Applied Research Institute in
Jerusalem (ARIJ) has prepared an Environmental Profile for Bethlehem and has an
Environmental Profile of Jericho under preparation.



Annex 18
Page]I of 12
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis and Monitoring
1.    The economic evaluation analyses the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improveement component
of the project representing 79 percent of total project cost (US$35.6 million). Among expected benefits,
only the quantifiable ones have been measured. The three components of Part A have been analyzed
separately: (a) the Rehabilitation and Improvement Program (US$22.9 million); (b) the Maintenance
Program  (US$7.5 million); and (c) the Neighborhood Upgrading Program  (US$5.2 million).  A
description of the evaluation methods, results and examples is presented below. Cost streams include
civil works, equipment and machines, engineering design and provisions for operation and maintenance.
Economic costs and benefits are expressed as base costs net of all taxation (in US$ at January 1, 1996
prices).
Rehabilitation and Improvement Program
2.     Situation and objectives. The infrastructure rehabilitation component of the project is focused
on three major municipal services: namely, water, wastewater and roads. The investment program
proposed originally by the municipalities and PECDAR totalled US$600 million. Given the limited
availability of resources, it was critical to establish a system to derive a refined list. The strategy adopted
was to establish a hierarchy of filters to sift the proposed projects in stages (See Table 1: Screening
process). The first step was the state of preparation of the projects. Only projects that would be ready
for tender within 18 months (i.e., before July 1997) and ready for implementation within three years were
considered. The next filter was to eliminate projects already considered by other donors. At this stage,
the size of the program had been reduced to US$260 million.!' Available resources were still far from
being able to fund this potential volume of infrastructure projects, consequently it was important to select
the most economically beneficial of these projects.
3.     The next criterion utilized within the screening process, therefore, was the economic feasibility
of projects. The cost of capital for WBG is estimated by the Country Economist at 10 percent.
However, given the large number of projects proposed, it was appropriate to raise the hurdle to ensure
that the highest value cohort would be considered for further analyses. Consequently, an ERR of 14
percent was established as the desirable threshold.  As a result, investments selected under the
infrastructure rehabilitation sub-component, which represents two-thirds of the total project cost, all
exceed this rate of return.
4.     Given the large number of projects proposed, a specific survey underpinning every project was
not feasible.  Therefore, three approaches (for water, waste water and roads, respectively) were
developed to assess the projects.  Projects were classified into categories associated with standard
conditions. Specific models were established for these categories based on assumptions discussed with
local engineers (see details below). For projects ready for implementation, any project specific data
available was taken into account and the model adapted whenever necessary. For projects less ready,l'
1/    The list of all projects considered is in the Project file.
2/     Generally projects whose documents will not be ready within 6 months.



Annex 18
Page 2 of 12
the economic evaluation provides only an indication of their economic feasibility and it is not intended
to eliminate projects at this stage as it is based on rough estimations of benefits and costs. In these cases,
poor preliminary results should be seen as an incentive to carefully design and re-evaluate projects to try
to secure their econonmic feasibility.
5.     The next filter was to ensure that selected projects would meet the following three conditions:
(a) consistency with sector strategy and related projects; (b) environmental impact and health factors
assessed as positive; and (c) institutional arrangements for operation and maintenance established. The
final stage was to select projects responding to community social priorities and confirmed by local
communities as being of high priority to them. Special attention was given to geographical distribution
equity. Frorn a longer term perspective, these evaluation criteria are intended to help local authorities
in their own screening process for future investment. The methodology and models used in this analysis
and presented below will be transferred to MLG and PECDAR for their use.
Economic Evaluation Methodology
6.     The three approaches developed evaluate project benefits and estimate project economic rate of
return. All benefits could not be taken into consideration as some were not quantifiable. For instance,
health improvement has not been quantified due to the scarcity of information on water-borne diseases,
though it is a major benefit of water and wastewater projects. Positive environmental impact could
neither be taken into account without further survey though it is a major public benefit. Consequently,
benefits have been consistently understated. Provisions for operation and maintenance costs (O&M) are
included into the cost streams as a fixed percentage of total sub-project cost. Supporting data for
economic analysis are in the Project File (Annex 19).
Water Projects
7.     Fifty sub-projects have been proposed involving exclusively the West Bank as a Bank-supported
water project is underway in the Gaza strip. These sub-projects totalled altogether US$21.4 million. On
the basis of current information, thirty-nine projects have an ERR above 14%, with costs totalling
US$15.8 million. The 22 projects selected to be funded under the core program totalled altogether
US$9.65 million. A description of the model and assumptions is presented below, followed by sensitivity
analyses and examples.
8.     Water sub-projects have been classified according to three categories: (a) creation or expansion
of water network; (b) pumps and reservoirs; and (c) rehabilitation/upgrading of network. The benefits
assessed were: (i) provision of piped water; (ii) increase in property value; (iii) increased provision of
water, and (iv) reduction of water losses. Each kind of sub-project provides a solution of benefits from
the set of these four. For projects combining discrete investments with associated benefits, separate ERRs
have been computed for each type of investment when distinct cost estimates were available. The final
ERR of such a project is a weighted average of sub-projects ERRs. Project life is estimated at 30 years;
no salvage value is taken into account. Provisions for O&M costs have also been estimated according
to sub-project types: 3 percent for reservoirs, 5 percent for networks, pumps and main pipes and 4
percent when reservoir and network are combined and no detailed costs are available. The estimates of
potential water consumption are based on comparison with Jordan where the demand for water has been
estimated recently at 120 liters/day/capita. Currently water demand is not met in most villages and
municipalities of the West Bank.



Annex 18
Page 3 of 12
9.     New network or expansion of network. Network investments will provide water in municipalities
and villages replacing expensive delivery by tankers. The major benefit is the provision of water at lower
cost for users (benefit estimated at US$40 per capita per year over the network lifetime). A second
benefit assessed is an immediate increase in property values (estimated at US$144 per household). The
current consumption from tankers is estimated at 20 liters/day/capita (l/d/c) both in villages and
municipalities. The water collected in private tanks is not taken into account in the model. The economic
cost of water from tankers is assumed to be NIS 15 per m3 (US$4.78 per i3), which is an average of
tanker prices encountered in WBG. When no project specific information is available, consumption after
completion of the project is expected to be 50 I/d/c both in villages and municipalities, not including
water coming from private collection tanks. This assumption is rather conservative, however, water
resources are limited and there is no evidence that the provision would necessarily be higher. Water
provided by the project is valued at NIS 3 per m3, which is an average of existing user charges in West
Bank. This benefit is taken annually over the assumed life of the network (30 years).
10.    The provision of water will also increase the value of dwelling units. The size of a household
is on average 7 persons in villages and 6 in municipalities. The number of households is estimated from
the number of beneficiaries, using these averages. The net increase in property values as a result of
good, piped supplies is estimated locally at US$1.80 per m2.3' The average dwelling unit area is 80m2.
The derived benefit of US$144 per household (See Appendix) is taken into account for the year following
project completion. These standard assumptions have been adapted when additional data was available.
For example, in Farkha (Nablus district), current consumption from tankers was estimated by the
authorities at 30 I/d/c, at NIS 20 per m3.
11.    Pumps and reservoirs. These projects are undertaken when there are shortages of water and a
need for emergency storage. The quantified benefit of pumps and reservoirs is an increased provision
of water (estimated at US$5 per capita per year, under standard estimates). Therefore, such projects also
imply higher water losses if there is no rehabilitation of the network. When no project specific data are
available, water consumption is estimated to increase from 60 I/d/c to 90 I/d/ in villages and from 90 to
120 in cities, as demand is currently not met. In both cases, the additional water provided is valued at
NIS 3 per m3. The percentage of unaccounted for water is set at 55% and is unchanged unless a
rehabilitation is underway. The increase in consumption is estimated in relationship to the known
capacity of the reservoir.
12.    Rehabilitation/Upgrading of network.  The first benefit of rehabilitation (estimated between
US$3 to US$5 per capita per year) is to provide consumers with more water as the percentage of
unaccounted for water is reduced. The rehabilitation may also enhanice the capacity of the network
introducing a second benefit from an increase in the provision of water (estimated globally between
US$10 to US$12 per capita per year). The current percentage of unaccounted for water is assumed to
be 55 percent. It is estimated to be reduced to 40 percent under the rehabilitation.4' The current
consumption is 60 I/d/c in villages and 90 I/d/c in municipalities. When the capacity of the network is
increased, the provision of 30 additional liters/d/c is expected and will satisfy the demand currently not
met. It should be noted that while increasing the provision of water, water losses may increase if
unaccounted for water is not reduced. The formula chosen take this cost into account. When project
specific data was available, the standard assumptions were adapted to each case.
3/     The increase in property value is estimated at $ 2 per m2, a 10 percent tax is applied on the value of the
dwelling when it is sold.
4/     Assistance to develop an appropriate strategy to manage losses is proposed under the Maintenance Program.



Annex 18
Page 4 of 12
13.    Risks. The benefits expected from these investments rely on improved management of water
services. A strategy has been developed to this purpose (Annex l). The strengthening of existing
utilities, the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, as well as the improvement of operation and
maintenance programs, will be supported through this Project. The management of water resources at
a regional level will be supported under a future West Bank Water and Wastewater Project, as it is
currently undertaken for Gaza under a Bank supported project.'
14.    Sensitivity analyses.  Increasing all project costs by 10 percent would reduce the number of
acceptable projects by 2, costing US$1.2 million. These two rates of return are decreased by 2 percent.
However, these two projects still have rates of return above the cost of capital (10 percent). Rates of
return between 14 percent and 25 percent are reduced by 2 to 3 percent. Higher rates of return are more
sensitive but remain well above 14 percent. Decreasing all project benefits by 10 percent will reduce
similarly the number of acceptable projects. Rates of return are slightly more reduced under this test (by
3 to 4 percent when ranging between 14 and 25 percent). Under combined cost increases and benefit
reductions, the number of acceptable projects would be reduced by 8, totalling US$2.8 million. Rates
of return are reduced by 4 to 5 percent for these eight projects. Projects whose economic feasibility was
done with rough estimates of benefits and costs because of their state of preparation will have to be
reevaluated when detailed information is available.
15.    Examples:
Creation of a water network. The proposed project in Deir Bzei and Kufr Naimeh (Ramallah district)
is to create a water network to benefit 3,607 people. Total project cost is US$700,000. The economic
rate of return of the project under standard assumptions is 19 percent. The cost per beneficiary is slightly
below US$200 per capita and seems reasonable for the area (see Table 2: Cost and Benefit Streams).
Pumps and reservoirs. A reservoir is proposed in Beita (Nablus district), benefiting the whole population
(5,766 people). Total project cost is US$200,000. The capacity of the reservoir is 500m3, it was
estimated that the provision of water would increase by 40 I/d/c. Based on this estimation, the economic
rate of return is 17 percent.
Rehabilitation of network. A rehabilitation is proposed in A'ttil (Tulkarem district) benefiting 9,373
people with a net cost estimated at US$400,000. The ERR is 20 percent. No additional data was
available, standard assumptions have not been changed.
Wastewater Component
16.     Thirty-two projects have been proposed involving only the West Bank, as a Bank-supported
water and wastewater project is underway in the Gaza strip. The projects total US$117.6 million. Out
of the evaluated projects, 10 fulfill the economic criterion, totalling US$23.5 million.t' The projects that
do not pass this criteria or those for which very little information was available should be re-estimated
carefully and re-evaluated when further project specific information is available. The method used is
presented below.
5/     Gaza Water and Wastewater Service Improvement Project.
6/     Most treatment plants increasing greatly the total amount of proposed projects did not pass as major
benefits such as the reuse of water have not been assessed because the projects were not precisely defined.



Annex 18
Page 5 of 12
17.    The major economic benefits of treatment plants, sewage network and pumping stations are health
improvement and environmental benefits. Given the large number of projects, no major survey on social
benefits could be undertaken. Therefore, no data was available to quantify any of these spill-over benefits
to screen wastewater sub-projects. For each sub-project, the minimum annual cost recovery per capita
to secure a 14 percent ERR has been estimated. The input required are the project cost and the number
of beneficiaries. The life-time of wastewater works was estimated at 30 years. Provisions for O&M
were taken as 15 percent of the total project cost. Thirty-two sub-projects have been classified into four
groups: treatment plant, wastewater network, treatment plant and wastewater network combined and
pumping station. One project is different from any other: a main storm water drain in Wadi Ain
Munjid.
18.    Currently, sewage fees are not charged efficiently to recover the cost of the network.
Municipalities estimate the household willingness to pay at about US$11 per household per month, or on
average US$18 per capita per year. (Poor collection of fees will be addressed under the capacity building
component.) Households are likely to pay for immediate benefits but they are less willing to pay for
major externalities, such as improved environment and better public health. However, untreated or
inadequately treated wastewater presents serious health and environmental risks. The scarcity of water
resources in the region could be partly answered by the development of reuse programs. Therefore,
estimating that these spill-over benefits paid for from general revenues could represent 50 percent of the
estimated cost recovery, a ceiling of US$36 per capita, per year was chosen as the maximum plausible
benefit. This is consistent with current practice showing that a reasonable cost for sewage services is
about US$35 per capita, per year (total capital cost annualized over the life of the network). Increasing
the project costs by 10 percent does not eliminate any passing project.  Two projects totalling
US$12.5 million are eliminated by a 20 percent increase in cost and a 5 percent increase in O&M.
19.    The annual cost recovery necessary to secure a 14 percent rate of return for the projects selected
to be funded under the project does not exceed US$18.5 per capita per year. Therefore these projects
easily pass the economic criterion. None of these projects will fall out from the sensitivity analyses.
Road Component
20.    One hundred and ten road sub-projects have been proposed for funding, totalling US$118 million
(90 million in West Bank and 28 in Gaza strip)."' Ninety-eight projects with costs totalling US$108
million fulfill the economic criterion of an ERR above 14 percent. The 28 projects to be funded under
the project itself total altogether US$24.8 million. The method for evaluating road project ERRs is
presented below, followed by sensitivity analyses and examples.
21.    Road projects have been classified according to two criteria: first, the kind of road and secondly,
the type of work to be done. First, roads are either regional, village access, village internal or city
internal ones. Secondly, the project can be classified under reconstruction, rehabilitation or maintenance
works. A project is classified under reconstruction when a major improvement is undertaken, for
example when paving an earth road, changing the curvature or the slope or, widening the road. A
rehabilitation or upgrading project improves greatly the road surface condition (mainly new overlays)
without modifying the main characteristics of the road. Maintenance is mostly patching and small
overlaying.
7/     About 80 percent of the projects have a base cost below US$1.5 million.



Antnex 18
Page 6 of 12
22.    The road model was developed to check which projects would pass the economic criterion. For
each project, four specific inputs are required: (a) the length of the portion to be improved; (b) the
estimated cost; (c) the average daily traffic (ADT); and (d) the classification according to the two criteria
described above. These parameters are currently the only available data on each investment. Economic
races of return are estimated based on these gross conditions linked to assumptions made with local
engineers on vehicle cost and road condition (Table 3). Net benefit streams are estimated from the
comparison of with and without project cases.
23.    Costs considered are the estimated project cost and provisions for operation and maintenance
(O&M) based on the type of work. They are assumed to be annually 5% of total project cost for a
reconstruction, 4 percent for a rehabilitation and 3 percent for a maintenance project. Roads are currently
financed through fuel taxation. Benefits come from savings in vehicle user cost and time, both due to
the imnproved road condition. As no precise measurement of road condition is available for each sub-
project, four road surface conditions have been defined: very poor, poor. fair and good. A project
classified under reconstruction is assumed to improve the road condition from very poor to good, under
relhabilitation from poor to good and under maintenance from poor to fair.
24.    Four kinds of vehicles have been considered, narnely, private cars, taxis, light trucks and heavy
trucks. Vehicle user costs depend on the road surface condition and the type of vehicle (Table 4). They
derive from fuel (or diesel) consumption, maintenance cost and tire life, and are first estimated as cost
per vehicle-km.  User time costs (for private cars and shared taxis) are computed for passengers
depending on average speed related to road surface condition and the kind of road. The average wage
rate is assumed to be NIS 50 per day net of all taxation. As the rate of unemployment is rather high,
the opportunity cost of labor adopted is set at NIS 25 per day. For light and heavy trucks, savings on
the time spent at the workshop for repair due to road condition has been estimated. These costs are
valued using the net price to hire a truck for a day, taken as NIS 300 for a light truck and NIS 600 for
c heavy one.
25.    The cost and benefit streams include the capital, provisions for O&M  and benefits from the
savings in vehicle user costs and time cost, due to the change in road surface condition. Benefits are
estimated for eachi kinid of vehicle and aggregated to be compared with costs. The ADT is required for
all four kinds of vehicies. When it was only given by cars and trucks, cars are split between private cars
and taxis depending in the kind of road. Heavy trucks were taken as 35 percent of all trucks. As no
assumptions could be made on diverted and generated traffic, traffic growth rate was set at 4 percent for
both with and witliout project cases. These are all conservative assumptions for WBG.
26.    Sensitivily analysis. The ADT is a major variable of the model as it is the major justification for
investing. A 10 percent decrease in ADT reduces ERRs by 4 to 6 percent, reducing the number of
acceptable projects by 1.  Increasing project cost by 10 percent reduces ERRs by 3 to 5 percent,
eliminiating I project. Under both incidences, two projects are eliminated. The traffic growth rate was
also tested.  Assuming there is no traffic growth eliminates 6 projects. Taken all three incidences
together, ERR are reduced by 10 to 12 percent and 14 projects are eliminated, totalling US$10 million.
Among the projects to be funded under the component, I project is eliminated by sensitivity analyses.
Almost all projects selected have high rates of return (above 30 percent).!'
8!     To assess the projecrs with high rates of return, a present value method would be useful. However, the
approach was developed to select projects passing the criterion of the minimum attractive ERR.



Annex 18
Page 7 of 12
27.    Examples. Rehabilitation and upgrading of village access roads to Arrabeh, Fahmeh and Kufr
Rai (Jenin district) have an ERR of 105 percent. The project is upgrading 5.8 km for a total cost of
US$0.6 million. Traffic counts are 1,050 vehicles of light duty and 100 trucks. Upgrading 4.5 km of
roads in Khan Younis (Gaza strip) for a total cost of US$1.75 million presents an ERR of 42 percent.
The traffic is 1750 cars and 158 trucks.
Maintenance Program
28.    Maintenance activities have major direct benefits for users and the municipality, as well as
important spill-over benefits. Users are benefiting directly from the maintenance of municipal assets as
the quality of services is improved and these services are more reliable. The municipality budget is
improved through direct savings. The Maintenance Program has not yet identified specific assets to be
maintained, therefore no rate of return could be estimated for this component. However, the Program
is to be modeled on the one currently functioning in Nazareth and the benefits of this Program were taken
as an example to illustrate some of the benefits to be expected from the Maintenance Program.
29.    Water network maintenance. Such maintenance activities improve the provision of water (both
in quantity and in quality). Pipe break downs in West Bank currently cause shortages of several days.
When pipes are replaced preventively or at least repaired rapidly, shortages are reduced and the provision
of water is more reliable, benefiting imrnmediately all users. Moreover, the quality of water is improved
and it can be better monitored through a program of regular activities on a network. Users benefit
directly from the maintenance of the network and can notice immnediately its better management.
Maintaining the network is also of great importance to the municipality itself.  The reduction of
commercial losses results in additional revenues. From the Nazareth example, it shows that changing
the meters every five years had helped reducing the losses by 5 percent. Water revenues savings are
approximately US$26,000 per year, which represents 7 percent of current revenues from water bills.
Reduction of unaccounted for water will help clarify consumption patterns, which is paramount to
financial accountability and the planning of future investments. As water resources are scarce in West
Bank, it is of regional interest to better manage networks to reduce physical losses.
30.    Road network maintenance. Maintaining the road surface condition has major benefits for the
user. As it helps preventing the deterioration of the road, vehicle user costs are reduced and the life of
vehicles increased. It results in direct user savings and the postponing of investments. Time savings anrd
safety are increased as traffic management is enhanced by a better quality of the road, traffic lights and
signs. The reduction of potholes and cracks also improves passenger comfort. Moreover, it reduces
losses of goods during transportation, benefiting local companies (and reducing indirectly transportation
cots). Besides these significant user benefits, municipality benefits are also important. Examples show
that maintaining a road lengthens its life-time and postpones additional investnent for the municipality.
In Nazareth, spending US$35,000 on a kilometer of road 3 and 6 years after the initial investment,
increases the life of the road by 3 years (frorm 6 to 9). Postponing for three years the reconstructing of
kilometer of road, at an estimated cost of US$400,000, would save about US$12,000 in present value
terms, for the municipality. Regular maintenance activities will improve municipality finance. They
enhance its ability to plan sustainable programs of expansion of the network and to optimize the life of
physical assets.



Annex 18
Page 8 of 12
Neighborhood Upgrading Program2'
31.    The upgrading of the neighborhoods in Gaza municipality will improve the provision of needed
basic services for lower-income households.   Eighty-four hectares were appraised, benefiting
approximately 4,500 households. The net cost is estimated at US$9.3 million including physical
contingencies. Incremental operation and maintenance costs are assumed to be 2 percent of capital
investment cost. The rate of return is 20 percent.
32.    The upgrading of these neighborhoods will improve the quality of life of the lower income
communities. Benefits have been quantified in terms of property value increase. The target communities
were compared with comparable areas already serviced. Property values are estimated to increase from
US$10.9 million to US$27.3 million after the investment. It represents an increase of 18 percent in the
average value of an apartment, currently estimated at US$20,700 and estimated after the upgrading at
US$24,450. The benefit is taken into account after the completion of the upgrading. The life of the
investment is assumed to be 20 years. Based on these estimates, the economic rate of return is 20 percent
(Table 5). Sensitivity analyses indicate that with 10 percent reduction in property values in target and
comparable areas, the ERR would be reduced to 14 percent; with 10 percent increase in capital
investment costs, the ERR would be 15 percent; with 10 percent increase in operation and maintenance
costs, the ERR would be reduced to 19 percent. All these three incidences taken together will lead to
an ERR of 8 percent.
33.   It should be noted t,aat the provision of street lighting, sidewalks and street paving repair would
contribute to increase the safety of these neighborhoods. Sanitary sewage network repairs, storm drainage
improvements and flooding prevention will also have a positive impact on public health and help prevent
environmental hazards. These spill-over benefits, however, have not been quantified.
Table 1: Screening Process
1    Readiness for
____implementation
2    Eliminate projects
considered by other donors
3    Economic evaluation
4    Institutional arrangements   Environmental impact     Consistency with sector
for operation and           and health factors        strategy
maintenance set up          assessed as positive
5 Community social priorities   High priority of local  Attention to
authorities              geographical distribution
2/     Because of uncertainty over availability of cofinancingduring project appraisal, eight sites were appraised.
However, only four of the highest priority sites were selected to be financed under this project (Annex 7).



Annex 18
Page 9 of 12
Table 2: Water Component - Examples: New Network in Deir Bzei and Kufr Naimeh
(US$ Million at 1996 Constant Prices)
:O.&M.. .-. .-  Benet t        Nt .Sensitivity Analysis
:.:.-... .  W. - . 4.:&.KI. .    anNet
.ear Cap..ta)  C; . -                         Emconoic  1
-: - - - t           A .  - - : -  . .A..  Benefit   Decrease  Increase   Both
...._    -.-               _           ......  . .  .'in Benefits  in Cost   Incidences
1    (0.700)              0.072               (0.628)    (0.635)   (0.698)        (0.705)
2               (0.035)   0.145     0.074      0.184       0.162     0.181         0.159
3               (0.035)    0.145               0.110       0.095     0.106        0.092
4               (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095     0.106         0.092
5               (0.035)    0.145               0.11(      0.095      0.106        0.092
6               (0.035)   0.145                0.11(       0.095     0.106         0.092
7               (0.035)    0.145               0.11(       0.095     0.106         0.092
8               (0.035)   0.145                0.11(      0.095      0.106        0.092
9               (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095     0.106         0.092
10              (0.035)   0.145                0.11(       0.095      0.106        0.092
11              (0.035)    0.145               0.11(       0.095      0.106        0.092
12              (0.035)    0.145               0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
13              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
14              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
15              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095     0.106         0.092
16              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095     0.106         0.092
17              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
18              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095     0.106         0.092
19              (0.035)    0.145               0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
20              (0.035)   0.145                 0.110      0.095      0.106        0.092
21              (0.035)   0.145                 0.110      0.095      0.106        0.092
22              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
23              (0.035)   0.145                 0.110      0.095      0.106        0.092
24              (0.035)   0.145                 0.110      0.095      0.106        0.092
25              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
26              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
27              (0.035)   0.145                (.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
28              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
29              (0.035)   0.145                 0.110      0.095      0.106        0.092
30              (0.035)   0.145                0.110       0.095      0.106        0.092
ERR      19%        16%        17%          14%
Notes:
Benefit Stream A constitutes expected economic benefit from provision of more water, at lower cost.
Benefit Stream B constitutes expected economic benefit from increased property value.



WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Road Component - Estimates on Vehicle Costs and Road Surface Conditions
T;;tT0f:i  t   9fitTft;f.    ,f.'   i'SS    ,"ii;   t'tTSaC   ?',f'':f  :   't-::t      'SS,$ iaff  ................  '. '    -  .. .,  ..............  .     .  ...:  ............-t;t!T    T-
.          L            <      ~    ~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~ VP  P  F  G  VP  P     F       G      vp+  P         F       G     VP       P      F      G
INumber of km driven per year    '000) km/yr     10     11      i 2    20     30      35     45      50     50      60     80    100      60     70      80    100
L  Ul!c  fchanged tires per    #/yr          2      2       2      2      4       4  _ 4         4      7       7      9       9      8       8     10     10
*.,fanew tirew                 NlS/tire     110       -      -            110     _ 8 (J-    00                                      110    _           
' ^c.::mZeiiaOce- expenditure      NIS '000        6      5       4      3      10    8.7    7.3       6     30   26.7   23.4       20     50   43.4   36.7      30
r e I /d iesel consumiption        kmJI          7      7      1 1    11       5      5      8       8      3       3      5       5    1.5     1 .5     2    2. 5
| Fuel;diesel net cost_              MIS,/I      2.3     =      = ..           2.3                     ...   0.9 ...                      0.9 ....
_Number of passengers                             4                             8            _ 8                                 .
%  of w4orking time spent on         %Z               _-                          1                       30%    20%    18%    14%    35%    30%    25%          17
| N~et value of passenger time      NlS/day       25       -      -       -     25              -    -
|Net_cost to hire a trnuck per day  NlS/day                                                                3()0    _         -           600       -       - 
|Average speed on regional rd       km/h         60     70      90 |100        60 |70         90    100      50     60      80     90     50      60     80      90
|Average speed on village access    km/h         50     60      70 fi80        50 |60         70     80      30     40      50     70     30      40     50      60
Average speed on city internal   j km/h         30     40      60 |60         30     40      60     60      20     30      50     60      20     30     45      5
|Average 5peed on village internal | km/h        30     40      45 |50         30 |40         45     50      30     40      45     50      20     30     40      50
Notes:
VP: very poor condition, P: poor condition. F: fair condition, G: good condition.
Maintenance expenditures depend on the age of the vehicle and on its kind, only average valuJes were adopted for the model.r



WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Road Component
Vehicle User Costs
User cost            . .. .... .-  Ca .....                                                    Light TWicka   Trueks
AM peor Y&-k-              Rod Cond.-l.                       Roa- .  ....... . -                   -    :  .                        Rod  CoU1di . . -.--
,~~~~~~~~~~~ . .. .      , . . . .   -.:.   .                                                      . . .   . . TT
Tire cost         0.007    0.007    0.006    0.004    0.005    0.004    0.003    0.003    0.037    0.031    0.030    0.024    0.049    0.042    0.046    0.037
Maintenance cost   0.200    0152    0111    0050         111    003       54    0.040    0.200      i 0.148 I 0.098 IT0.067    0.278    0.207  .153    0.100
Fuel/diesel cost  0.110    0. iO    0.070    0.070    01i53    0.153    0.096    0.096    .100    0.100    0.060    0.060    0.200    0.200    0.150    0.120
!Total             .17    0.268 f0 187    0.123    0.269    0.240    0.153    0.139    0.337    0.279    0.188    0.151    0 527    0.449    0.349    0.257
Time Costs
User~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ~s  2asmiwnjis~ CIra4s)                                 Ligt Tri*ks                       Uea~ Twk
(U$per veh-km),                           ...      . .....  R .Uo .. ....d onitot                                                 RadCwdiio
_ _   w   p ----w F                  ' r -  n .     P   |-   F   .- -   W::   T         T-     F   I    G   0  w L  P 4F  ... .    P_
Regional road     0.069   0.060     0.046   0.042    0.139  I 0 119     0.093    0.083   0.180   0.100     0.068    0.042   0.350    0.257  -70.188    0.102
Village Access rod   0.083   0.069     6    0.052    0.167   0 .139     0.119    0.104   0.180   0.100 0.046  0             037    .350 |0 257  0-18R | 0-102
City Intemnal road    0.139   0.104  0.069   0.069    0.278   0.208     0.139    0.139   0.180 |0.100      0.068    0.042   ).350    0.257    0.188    0.102
Village Internal rd   0.139 i 0.104  0.093T  0.083    0.278   0.208     0.185    0.167   0.180   0.100     0.068    0.042   0.350    0.257    0.188 - 0.102
Notes:
VP: very poor condition. P: poor condition, F: fair condition, G: good condition.
Maintenance expenditures depend on the age of the vehicle and on its kind, only average values were adopted for the model.
I t 00



Annex 18
Page 12 of 12
Table 5: Neighborhood Upgrading Component - Economic Analysis!'
(US$Million at 1996 Constant Prices)
Year | tNet: Cptal0  Oi&M  iCost 0'  ic;r ea iw:ntll tll:;00Net tt::0;;g '          j; : n                          $iiii
_ V~l.: i                   ;:v  t:0 i : : < :: v Ri:i:iii |  0 0 a!w;:000ti: :nefit+;; P; ;ig . roprty Va1 . A- Ct inO&M C s   ciilec.. ' .................................. . . .
(2,325)                                            7T.35)               (2,325)          (2,558)          (2S23       (258
2        (2,325)             (47)                         (2.372)             (2,372)          (2,604)          (2,376)    (2,609)
.   (2,.325)            (93)                         (2.418)             (2.41 8)        (2,651)           (2,427)    (2.660)
4         (2.325)           ( 140)                        (2.465)             (2,465)          (2,697)          (2,478)    (2,711)
5                           (186)          16,38()        16,194              14.556           16,194            16,175    14,537
6                           (186)                           (18h)               (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
7                           (186)                           (186)               (186)            (186)            (205)      (205)
X                           (186)                           (186)               (186)            (186)            (205)      (205)
9                           (186)                           (186)               (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
II)                         (186)                            (18X6)             (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
11                  ~~~(186)                         (186)               (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
12                          (186)                            (186)              (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
13                          (186)                            (186)              (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
14                          (186)                            (186)              (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
15                          (186)                            (186X)             (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
1h                          (186)                            (186)              (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
17                         i(186)                            (186)              (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
I1X                         (186)                           (186)               (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
19                          (186)                            (186)              (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
20)                         (18 6)                           (186)              (186)            (186)            (205)       (205)
ERR             2()%               14%               t5%              19%         8%
Notes:
1/ This analysis was done fo)r the eight site appraised. However, the project will only finance the four highest priority
sites (Annex 7).
2/    Total Economic Capital Cost is US e 9.3 million  split equally over the first four years.
3/ Assumed to be 2% of the capital investmTenit cost.
4!    Reductionl of Property Value both in target  and comparable areas.



Annex 18
Appendix A
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Validation Mechanism of Econonic Feasibility
I.     A validation mechanism has been established to ensure the economic feasibility of infrastructure investments
implemented over the four years of the project and to adjust the analytical approaches developed (Annex 18).
2.     Situation and objectives. The investment program proposed originally by the municipalities and PECDAR
totalled US$600 million. Given the limited availability of resources, the strategy adopted was to set a hierarchy of
filters to derive a refined list (Annex 18, paras. 3-6). The economic feasibility of projects was one of the filters
and the minimum desirable rate of return was chosen to be 14 percent.'' As a result, infrastructure investments to
be implemented under the Project will have an economic rate of return of at least 14 percent. Infrastructure
investments will be funded over the four years of the project. Consequently, all data necessary to assess the
economic feasibility of investments was not ready at the time of appraisal, particularly for those scheduled for the
third and fourth years of the Project. A validation mechanism has been established with two objectives: (a) to
ensure that key data is collected for all projects that have been preliminarily selected to be funded; and (b) to
confirm their economic feasibility. A secondary objective was to reduce the collection of unnecessary data through
a pre-selection of projects likely to be funded.
3.     Validation mechanism. The mechanism ensures that four major steps are followed. These steps are:
Step 1: Pre-evaluation of projects. Analytical appro3ches have been developed to pre-evaluate the
projects. Projects are classified into categories associated with standard conditions (Annex 18 for
discussion). Costs and benefits are assessed based on estimates and the economic rate of return evaluated.
Step 2: Pre-selection o' p-ojects. Projects passing Step I are checked to ensure that they respond to
community social priorities and are ccnfirmed by local communities as being f hiigh priority to them. In
addition, projects have to meet thrme zonditions: (a) consistency with scctoi strategy; (b) posit.ve
environmental impact and health facto-.' and (c) institutional arrangemients for O&M set up (Annex 18,
para. 6).
Step 3: Evaluation of projects. All key data required to confirm the economic evaluation of pre-selected
projects is collected. The analytical approaches developed are adapted to utilize those project-specific data.
Pre-selected pro,ects are re-evaluated.
Step 4: Selection of projects. Projects passing Step 3 are selected for implementation.
4.     Monitoring mechanisn. A process is set up through the validation mechanism to adjust the analytical
approaches in light of experience over the four years of project implementation. Data is collected on pre-selected
projects to refine th.~ economic evaluation, and adjust the standard parameters to those projects (Step 3). All these
data will be aggregated and used to adjust the estimates used for the pre-evaluation.
1/     The cost of capital is estimated at 10 percent for WBG. The hurdle was raised to ensure that the highest
value cohort would be considered for further analyses (Annex 18. para. 4).



Annexr 19
WEST BANK AND GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in The Project File
PROJECT FILE
1.    Developing The Occupied Territories: An Investimienit in Peace, World Bank, Five Volumes
(September, 1993).
2.     Emergency Assistance Programi for the Occupied Territories, World Bank, December 7,
1993.
3.     Techinical Assistance Program  For The Occupied Territories, World Bank. December 7, 1993
4.     Emergency Rehabilitation Project, Memorandum & Recommendation of the President of IDA,
May 2, 1994.
5.     List of Sub-projects Reviewe(d by Appraisal Mission.
6.     Availabie Data Sheets for First Year Core Sub-projects.
7.     Upgrading Note.
8.     Policy Reform and Development Matrix for the 5 Select:d Municipalities.
9.     Detailed Implementationi Schedule.
t0.    West Baik. and Gaza !ntergovernmental Relations and Municipal Finance. World Bank
Mission Back-to-Office Report. February 1995.
II.   West Bank and Gaza Muticipal Finance and Management, World Bank Mission Back-to
Office Report, November 1995.
12.    Supporting Data for Economic Analysis.
13.    Draft of the Palestinian Municipal Law, 1995.
14.    Detailed Output Indicators tor Each Project Component.



MAP SECTION






13 ,. T.oHir.To  o'To,.,oo,,                               r. oKW.,Gdn      TTG.
t34!50  ToHoiful J[Koon                                  AfYoIUoAX\<    roVv'7<X[i0O  353O!oLo) r;!WEST  BANK  AND  GAZA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE
W --              \                --                             s                             I DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cy                                                                                             .                                     F   1 SELECTED MUNICIPALITIES (SM%)
0  (               -    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  '~~~~~~~~~         ~2VILLAGES/TOWNS WHERE INFRASTRUCTURE
'V\ X  / =   'n ;noonJ/  / >Useabl2 ~>       5---o  32 ;0                      _   REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT
a,  -~~~~~~  -~~~~             .~~~~     I      I,---                                   , ~~~~~~~~~~~SUBPROJECTS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED FOR
,< 0 -?-\ ,r s/D-' '                  '                            2>>, ,Jenin  ~,__  \  /   jCONSIDERATION IN THE PROGRAM
c, I v f r Yab-ode                                                                         ( -5!   NUMBER OF NEIGHBORHOOD UPGRADING SITES
A,- ITo)  .elyen;                                             -                                                    X > v t    - JUNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
I      I\    /I    /16-t * *   >>>gq       uS~obobs   . s   <                  l        *)                   _    ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
f                           '9>--v SUl / W1 - , /, y,l/t                           , _N ip  _,. , ) - BUILT-UP AREAS
-v __A  (\                                                         . *    /   F  r   LR   z   \QS   ,   -   ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
S   \ $,_t        -ta    '  X *    ' -t  ',,  ,    - )   T   2                                   -I  ~~~~~~~~~~NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
6o's~ ~   ~    ~ ~320                      JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
-32 20  -C EA    x  . }   nopE..  S    *IT)jbas                            ,    3                            EXPANDED BED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967.
/1TXPRT u lKarm    '<           - - -' - -          -fN                         7          !                 THEN  ANNEXED  JULY 30, 1980
ol                       '   N'                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORT
~  IJ~ )17~AOAl  4.-      1           I        Tsmmun
-6' J                                                                         , D  X  A14S;  X F- X1  .Tommun   + 1   <  0   tAIRFIELDS
blus                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~HIGHWAYS
J/        (        ,'           -2         .'4tbIus   \                                  $                                     ; -REGIONAL ROADS
I  .2-  4   1                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
0Z/ \ .           R>-                       -          S N   t  \ ,--j*~  I                0                     S                          -VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS
L,3210'    ' RAILROADS
%,~~~~~~~~~~~)                             '. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~21'             -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I;  .                                           0        S8 ,    (IX/ -   |  l,o  15 KILOMETERS
LAF   O                                                                 |                                                               T he ,   .   b -d o i.,,  o   d o,  o d   .0 y vl hor  n - oioo
L-      a d                       I                                      ;t          I                                 .o             A W  o    Po Ti,   onop   d o   o ot .p ly .   on   t l   op o,   if o T h .   W o n ldd on n-   G - p
2  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ , ~~~~~~~~~~                                                on~~~~~~~-y I-dgn,ooi on6P. Igol a.fo, of .y Mn-0.,y, on oy .dr.
IRAFI                     /              '5                                                              0   '32'00
EL    ~  ~      N.       \\5~             R ~       N34;30'                                                                           No,l        35*30f
o)__ _                  _          <           Y1      ;                                                                               0SELECTEDCITIES Ah.of- -o,,p'
,~~~~~- ,~                                                    I                       '> , ,e,nrno  Nd                                                          PoLeMd ||(t< |q
NM,
h    ~~~~~             *----  ~~~~~~~~~.S                                     Tolkon.. ~~~~~~~~~~NWTbLos
-                                                           I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .'""  JORDAN
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e iB                                                                                                 N                32  N 9  \|D l lBoo
31'50 'K                                                  0
1-16hIo,              AMMAN
0                                                                             ,~~~~~~~~~~~j  ~~~~~~~~  P          7~~~~~~~~'  JERUSA4
-  3l*3K'  -~~         ~~     ~~~~~~ f  . On Sn
G.. C,V
1N,- /    \                                        3 Io     /  REP. OF  o             f3          l luESIJ 3
_-~Y~ah4~                                                                                                           N 5l         S  R5;00  A   E  L5;10'    35;20'    /   35;30'  GYPT    S R A E L
N"   (I ~~~~~~~~~~~~jl'  "~~~~~~~~~~   10,Y~~~~~~~~~~'                                           3~~IA 1 '3                                     0 N1E
(0'  - ,                                                                     :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.                       3120~~~~~~~~~4-0  3"0
3130  30-                                                31'M
3 I'30o'                                                                                                                 3 310  I1'5330 GYT ' -.~*,*-









IMAGING
Report No:      15400 WBGZ
Type: SAR



