March 6, 1998



H. E.. Mohammed Nashashibi
Minister of Finance
Palestinian Authority
Gaza City, Gaza

      Re:       Municipal Infrastructure Development Project - TF 026057
                Amendment to the Trust Fund Credit Agreement

Excellency:

       We refer to the Trust Fund Credit Agreement for the Municipal Infrastructure
Development Project (TF026057) between the Palestine Liberation Organization (for the
benefit of the Palestinian Executive Authority) (the “Borrower?) and the International
Development Association, acting as administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West
Bank (the “Administrator?), dated June 12, 1996, as amended (the “Credit Agreement?).
We also refer to the understanding reached between the Administrator and the Borrower
to take steps to accelerate the preparation of the Bethlehem 2000 Project by
reallocating Project for that purpose and modifying, in a small part, the design of
the Project. Accordingly, the Credit Agreement is hereby as follows:

1.     Section 2.09 shall read as follows: “For the purposes of taking any action
required to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions: (a) PECDAR is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6); and (b) The Bethlehem 2000 Committee is
designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (7), (8) and (9).

2.     Section 4.01 (a) shall be amended to read as follows: “The Borrower, through
PEA, shall cause PECDAR, in respect of Parts A, B and C of the Project, and The
Bethlehem 2000 Committee, in respect of Part D of the Project, to maintain, each in
respect of its respective part of the Project, records and accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations and financial
condition of MLG, MOT, MOW, the Participating Municipalities, PECDAR and The Bethlehem
2000 Committee.

3.     In Section 4.01 (b), the words “and The Bethlehem 2000 Committee? shall be
inserted between the words “PECDAR? and “to? in the first line and the term “Special
Account? in the second line shall read “Special Accounts.?

4.     In Section 4.01 (c), the words “and The Bethlehem 2000 Committee? shall be
inserted between the words “PECDAR? and “to? in the third line.

5.     The Borrower shall open and maintain a new special account (Special Account C)
under terms and conditions identical to those governing the opening and maintenance of
Special Accounts A and B. Special Account C shall be used exclusively for eligible
expenditures relating to the cost of goods, works and services required for the
carrying out of Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (7), (8) and (9) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement. The authorized allocation
for Special Account C shall be 300,000.

       All the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, not amended hereby, shall
remain in full force and effect.

       Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the confirmation on
the copy of this Letter Amendment and returning.

Sincerely,


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank




By /s/ Joseph Saba
       Country Director
       West Bank & Gaza


AGREED AND CONFIRMED:

PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION


By /s/ Mohammed Nashashibi
       Minister of Finance of the
       Palestinian Authority
