Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 026057
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Municipal Infrastructure Development Project)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Executive 
Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and 
West Bank
Dated  June 12,  1996
TF 026057
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1996, between PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Executive Authority) (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund 
for Gaza and West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and 
IDA 93-7, as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3, of the Executive Directors 
of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International 
Development Association (the Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on October 
12, 1995, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety million 
dollars ($90,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the net income of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West Bank);
(B)
under the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area between the 
Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of Israel, dated May 
4, 1994 (the Cairo Agreement), the parties thereto agreed to the establishment by the 
Palestine Liberation Organization of a Palestinian Authority (the Palestinian 
Authority) to perform the powers and functions provided for in the Cairo Agreement;
(C)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, sets 
Page  2
out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the 
Interim Agreement); 
(D)
the Interim Agreement restates certain provisions of the Cairo Agreement, 
including those pertaining to the respective powers of the Palestine Liberation 
Organization and the Palestinian Authority in the sphere of foreign relations and, in 
so doing, supersedes the Cairo Agreement, as well as the Agreement on Preparatory 
Transfer of Powers and Responsibilities, dated August 29, 1994, and the Protocol on 
Further Transfer of Powers and Responsibilities, dated August 27, 1995, both entered 
into between the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel;
(E)
Section 1 of Article II of the Interim Agreement envisages the election 
in Gaza and the West Bank of a council with legislative and executive authorities 
which shall, upon inauguration thereof, assume all the powers, responsibilities, 
rights, liabilities and obligations of the Palestinian Authority (the Palestinian 
Council);
(F)
Section 1 of Article V of the Interim Agreement provides that the 
executive authority of the Palestinian Council shall be bestowed upon a committee to 
be formed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Interim Agreement (the 
Palestinian Executive Authority or PEA);
(G)
Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases 
described thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority, and, upon inauguration of the council 
referred to in Paragraph (E) above, for the benefit of PEA;
(H)
the Palestinian Authority has requested the Administrator to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project); and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of PEA, 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Economic Council for 
Development and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project  (TF 026066 GZ), with the following modifications thereto (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to 
the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(b)
A new Section, to be numbered “9.08”, shall be inserted after Section 
9.07 and shall read as follows:
“The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all such action as shall 
be necessary to 
acquire as and when needed all such land and right in 
respect of land as shall be required for 
the carrying out of the Project 
and shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly, upon its 
request, evidence 
satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights in respect of land 
are 
available for purposes of the Project.”
Page  3
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of PEA;
(b)
“MLG” means the Ministry of Local Government of PEA;
(c)
“MOT” means the Ministry of Transport of PEA;
(d)
“MOW” means the Ministry of Works of PEA;
(e)
“Participating Municipalities” means the municipalities of the cities of 
Gaza, Rafah, Nablus, Jenin and Hebron;
(f)
“PECDAR” means the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and 
Reconstruction, an agency of the Borrower established under a Decree of the Chairman 
of the Executive Committee of the Borrower dated October 31, 1993, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and operating under a Basic Regulation dated May 14, 1994, 
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g)
“Infrastructure Sub-projects” means specific sub-projects to be carried 
out under the programs referred to under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6 and A.7 of 
the Project, located in either Gaza or the West Bank; and “Infrastructure Sub-project” 
means one such Sub-project;
(h)
“LGDP” means the Local Government Development Program of PEA;
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PEA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term shall include all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
(k)
“Implementation Agreements” means, collectively, the agreement to be 
entered into between PEA (through MOF, MLG, MOT and MOW) and PECDAR pursuant to 
Paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the agreement to be entered into by 
PEA (through MOF, MLG, MOT and MOW) and each of the Participating Municipalities 
pursuant to Paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time; and such term shall include all schedules to the Implementation 
Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
Page  4
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause PEA to pay to the Administrator a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.*
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause PEA to pay to the Administrator a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause PEA to repay the principal amount of the 
Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing 
October 1, 2006, and ending April 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall cause PEA to designate PECDAR as PEA’s 
representative for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall carry out the Project through PEA with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of 
the Borrower and the Administrator.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to PEA under 
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PEA, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause PEA to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of PEA therein set forth, shall 
cause to take all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PEA to carry out the Project, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
Page  5
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause PEA to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
PEA on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Administrator's 
comments thereon.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through PEA, shall, on the basis of criteria 
acceptable to the Administrator including those set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, select from LGDP, and furnish to the Administrator for its approval, 
Infrastructure Sub-projects to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6 and A.7 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through PEA, shall cause PECDAR to maintain, in 
respect of the Project, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations and financial condition of MLG, MOT, MOW, 
the Participating Municipalities and PECDAR.
(b)
The Borrower, through PEA, shall cause PECDAR to: (i) have the records 
and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator 
such other information concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
PEA, shall cause PECDAR to: (i) maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at 
least one year after the Administrator has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last disbursement from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; (iii) enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and PEA; and 
(b)
that the Implementation Agreements have been executed on behalf of PEA 
and PECDAR, and on behalf of PEA and each of the Participating Municipalities, 
respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and PEA and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and PEA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Implementation Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, PEA, PECDAR and each of the Participating 
Municipalities, respectively, and are legally binding upon PEA, PECDAR and each of the 
Participating Municipalities in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby  specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of PEA is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Palestine Liberation Organization
c/o The Palestinian Executive Authority
Gaza City
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Nablus as of  the day and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
Page  7
By /s/ Sa’eb Erakat 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Odin Knudsen 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of Eligible
(Expressed in U.S.
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)  
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
    25,600,000
100% prior to
July 1, 1998,
and 75%
thereafter
(2)
Goods
     1,300,000
100% 
(3)
Consultants' services,   8,800,000
100%
training and studies
(4)
Incremental Operating
300,000
100% prior to
Expenditures
July 1, 1998,
and 75%
thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
    4,000,000
    TOTAL              40,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental Operating Expenditures" 
means expenditures incurred on account of the Project for payments for salaries, rent, 
utility charges and fuel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed eight million dollars 
($8,000,000) equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on 
account of payments made before that date but after February 29, 1996.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for goods, works and services under contracts 
not exceeding $250,000 equivalent for goods and works, including works carried out 
under force account, $100,000 equivalent for services with firms, and $50,000 
equivalent for services with individuals, under such terms and conditions as the 
Page  8
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to rehabilitate basic, high priority 
infrastructure and services in Gaza and the West Bank, relieve critical infrastructure 
constraints and reduce unemployment therein, and provide wide-spread economic benefits 
to the population thereof.
Part A:
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement
1.
Carrying out a program of rehabilitation and improvement of village access and 
internal roads, water supply networks and systems, including water wells, and 
stormwater and sewerage networks, systems and plants located outside the territorial 
jurisdiction of the Participating Municipalities.
2.
Carrying out a program of rehabilitation and improvement of roads, water supply 
networks and systems, including water wells, and stormwater and sewerage networks, 
systems and plants located within the territorial jurisdiction of the Participating 
Municipalities.
3.
Carrying out a program of routine and periodic maintenance of roads, water, 
wastewater and sanitation systems, and other infrastructure assets located within the 
territorial jurisdiction of the Participating Municipalities.
4.
Carrying out a program of rehabilitation and improvement of regional roads.
5.
Carrying out a program of routine and periodic maintenance of regional roads.
6.
Carrying out a neighborhood upgrading program in low-income communities located 
within the territorial jurisdiction of the Participating Municipalities, such program 
to consist of: (a) repairing and extending the water supply network; (b) repairing, 
resurfacing and paving sidewalks and streets; (c) providing bins and other refuse 
collection equipment; (d) repairing the sewer network; (e) upgrading the storm 
drainage and flood prevention systems; (f) repairing and installing street safety 
lighting equipment; and (g) upgrading existing playgrounds, parks and other community 
facilities, and constructing new  communities facilities.
7.
Carrying out a neighborhood upgrading program in low-income communities located 
outside the territorial jurisdiction of the Participating Municipalities, such program 
to consist of: (a) repairing and extending the water supply network; (b) repairing, 
resurfacing and paving sidewalks and streets; (c) providing bins and other refuse 
collection equipment; (d) repairing the sewer network; (e) upgrading the storm 
drainage and flood prevention systems; (f) repairing and installing street safety 
lighting equipment; and (g) upgrading existing playgrounds, parks and other community 
facilities, and constructing new  communities facilities.
8.
Support in the preparation of engineering design and other documents relative to 
the procurement process under the Project, the evaluation of bids and the supervision 
of Project implementation under: (a) Part A.1 of the Project; (b) Part A.2 of the 
Project; (c) Part A.3 of the Project; (d) Part A.4 of the Project; (e) Part A.5 of the 
Project; (f) Part A.6 of the Project; and (g) Part A.7 of the Project.
Part B:
Capacity Building at Local Government Level
Carrying out a program to build the institutional capacity of MLG and the 
Participating Municipalities through: (a) the review of the existing legal and 
institutional framework governing local government; (b) the review of the present 
local government revenue system and the development of a suitable system and 
strategies to finance local government services; (c) the review of capital investment 
policies at the local government level; (d) the improvement of MLG and the 
Participating Municipalities’ capacity to plan and manage infrastructure and service 
improvement projects; (e) the provision of support in the development of an 
infrastructure operation and maintenance program; and (f) the development of a public 
information program.
Page  9
Part C:
Project Management Support
Support to MOF, MLG, MOT, MOW, PECDAR and the Participating Municipalities 
through, inter alia, the preparation of studies and the provision of expert services, 
training, seminars, workshops, vehicles, equipment, materials, supplies and spare 
parts to ensure effective Project management and coordination at the municipal and 
village levels.
*     *     *     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, 
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in, and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors from, the West Bank or Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator. Said procedures shall 
ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) 
consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective bidders 
shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days between the date upon which the 
notification appears in the newspaper for the first time and the date upon which the 
bid is submitted; (iii) the format of the bidding documents shall be consistent with 
that of the Administrator's standard bidding documents, or with the format of bidding 
documents used by United Nations Agencies operating in the West Bank and Gaza; (iv) 
interested foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid; (v) bids shall 
be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted whether mailed or hand-carried; 
(vi) all bids shall be opened at the same time in public; (vii) contracts shall be 
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) no bidder shall be requested or 
permitted to modify his, her or its bid after the bid closing date shall have elapsed; 
(ix) price negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder shall be limited to cases 
provided for under the Guidelines; and (x) postqualification criteria shall, in the 
absence of a prequalification process, be explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  10
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $500,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Administrator’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Force Account
Small works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and 
costing $3,000,000 or less in the aggregate may, with the Administrator’s prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
 Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Administrator in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Administrator, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed 
by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued 
by the Administrator, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be 
used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall 
not apply to; (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
Page  11
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall cause PEA to vest the responsibility for Project 
implementation in MLG, MOT and MOW. MLG  shall be responsible for implementing the 
Project except for Parts A.4 and A.5 thereof which MOT and MOW shall jointly assume 
the implementation therefor.
2.
In order to achieve the objectives of the Project and to ensure effective 
capacity building and Project implementation, the Borrower shall cause PEA to enter 
into an Implementation Agreement with PECDAR pursuant to which, inter alia, PECDAR 
shall assume certain obligations with respect to the implementation of Parts A.1, A.4, 
A.7, A.8 (a), A.8 (d), A.8 (e), A. 8 (g) and C of the Project, and another such 
Agreement with each of the Participating Municipalities pursuant to which, inter alia, 
the Participating Municipalities shall assume certain obligations with respect of 
Parts A.2, A.3, A.6, A.8 (b), A.8 (c), A.8 (f) and B of the Project, all in accordance 
with terms and conditions that shall have been approved by the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 1996, cause PEA to establish, and 
thereafter maintain, an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee, with membership 
acceptable to the Administrator, the main objective of which shall be to coordinate 
the implementation of  the Project.
B.
Semi-Annual and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall cause PEA to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable PEA to monitor and 
evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, not later than September 30, 1998, a mid-term report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities, performed 
pursuant to Sub-paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said mid-term report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, not later than December 31, 1998, the 
mid-term report referred to under Sub-paragraph (b) above, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Administrator's views on the matter.
C.
Progress Reports
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and to those of Paragraph B of this Schedule, the Borrower shall cause PEA, commencing 
November 30, 1996, and quarterly thereafter until completion of the Project, to 
prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall reasonably request describing the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
Page  12
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account, shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
 (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  13
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the amount of any outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project shall equal the equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Infrastructure Sub-Projects
Selection Criteria
An Infrastructure Sub-project shall, inter alia: (a) have an economic rate of 
return of not less than 14%; (b) not have an adverse impact on the environment, such 
determination to be made on the basis of an environmental analysis to be carried out 
by PEA and the results of which to be furnished to the Administrator; (c) be 
consistent with the objectives of the LGDP; and (d) be deemed by the PEA and the 
Administrator to respond to a priority need in terms of its (i) economic and social 
impact; (ii) distributional equity; (iii) recurrent costs requirements; and (iv) 
responsiveness to community needs.
