                                         Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 27502

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (TF-26049 TF-22274 TF-26057)

                                  ON A TRUST FUND CREDIT




                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                    WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                             FOR

           THE FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                            MIDP-1




                                        December 29, 2003




Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective November 2003)

                                 Currency Unit = New Israeli Sheqalim (NIS)
                                         NIS 1 = US$ 0.22
                                         US$ 1 = NIS 4.5

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1  June 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHLC   Ad Hoc Liaison Committee
B2000  Bethlehem 2000 Project Authority
CDP    Community Development Project
DOP    Declaration Of Principles
EAP    Emergency Assistance Program
EEGP   Emergency Employment Generation Program
EHRP   Education and Health Rehabilitation Project
EMSRP  Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project
ERP    Emergency Rehabilitation Project
FMIS   Financial Management Information Systems
FY     Financial Year
GNP    Gross National Product
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IMF    International Monetary Fund
MIDP   Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
OT     Occupied Territories
PA     Palestinian Authority
PECDAR Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PCD    Project Concept Document
PLO    Palestine Liberation Organization
RMIS   Revenue Management Information Systems
SAR    Staff Appraisal Report
SM     Selected Municipality
TAP    Technical Assistance Program
TATF   Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TFGWB  Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
UNRWA  United Nations Relief and Works Agency
UNSCO  United Nations Special Coordinator in the Occupied Territories
WBG    West Bank and Gaza

                                Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
                             Country Director:     Nigel Roberts
                               Sector Director:    Emmanuel Forestier
                              Sector Manager:       Hedi Larbi
                            Task Team Leader:      Ibrahim Dajani

                                      WEST BANK AND GAZA
                                  GZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                    1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
     6. Sustainability                                                                15
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
     8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
     9. Partner Comments                                                              18
     10. Additional Information                                                       19
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
     Annex 8. Partner's Comments                                                      43
     Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            47
     Annex 10. Note on Cofinancing                                                    52
     Annex 11. Note on Bethlehem 2000 Component                                       55
     Annex 12. Footnotes                                                              56
Map: IBRD No 27794

Project ID: P043339                                                  Project Name: GZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Ibrahim Dajani                                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 31, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: GZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT                                 L/C/TF Number: TF-26049; TF-22274;
                                                                                                     TF-26057
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (51%); Sub-national government
                            administration (19%); Sanitation (10%); Sewerage (10%); Water
                            supply (10%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Municipal
                            governance and institution building (P); Other urban development
                            (P); Other financial and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/01/1995                                     Effective: 07/24/1996                07/24/1996
     Appraisal: 11/01/1995                                         MTR: 05/28/1999                  05/28/1999
      Approval: 05/30/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PLO/PALESTINIAN
                                           AUTHORITY/PECDAR/MOT/MOW/MLG/MUNICIPALITIES
                      Other Partners:      The Governments of Italy and Greece

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Odin Knudsen
Sector Director:                Emmanuel Forestier                             Alastair Mckechnie
Team Leader at ICR:             Ibrahim Dajani                                 Kingsley Robotham
ICR Primary Author:             Kingsley Robotham


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
This First Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP-1) was presented to the Board in May
1996 and became effective in July of that year. It was built on the foundation of two earlier successful
Bank-supported projects, Emergency Rehabilitation Projects One and Two (ERP-1 and ERP-2; in FY94
and FY96 respectively)1. These were the first in a series of Bank-financed projects that sought to tackle
the huge infrastructure backlog in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG). However, between 1994 and 1996,
when the political situation began to deteriorate and borders with Israel were often closed to Palestinian
workers, both projects were pressed into service to create emergency employment relief. Such was the
context of MIDP's final preparation. MIDP built on ERP-1 and 2, but also sought to break new ground by
helping to initiate significant institutional reform in the Local Government sector. The Project's original
objectives were to:

1. Help remove critical infrastructural bottlenecks; improve essential services and facilities; preserve
     existing infrastructural assets; create productive employment; and
2. Strengthen the local government system, particularly to rationalize roles and responsibilities and
     build finance and managerial capacity2.

Conflict and Crisis: The above objectives were pursued against the backdrop of the strife and
dislocation that characterized WBG for most of the implementation period, and the near total breakdown
of economic and social life after September 2000. The latter was due to the deep and widespread crisis
arising out of the Palestinian Intifada and the subsequent Israeli military response. By December 2000,
WBG was in a de facto state of war. Widespread Israeli border closures, restrictions on the mobility of
Palestinians citizens, and severe dislocation of PA institutions made it very difficult to complete the
infrastructure components after September 2000, and almost impossible to continue to pursue the reform
objectives.3 The impact of events since the beginning of the Intifada has been documented in two World
Bank publications: "Fifteen Months--Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis", March 2002;
and "Two years of Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis", February, 14, 2003.       However,
there were periods of instability -- violence and closures -- even before the project went to the Board.
The Project's Memorandum of the President (MOP) noted as follows:

A very recent and ominous development is prolonged Israeli border closures in response to a series of
bombings inside Israel. These closures have sent unemployment soaring, creating severe social and
economic hardship and undermining the prospect of economic growth in 1996. The severity of the crisis
required an immediate response to minimize hardship and avoid negating recent gains.4

Difficulties of Assessment: As will be shown below, the relative importance of the project objectives
began to change as early as the Board meeting itself, with the Board requesting and management
agreeing to include substantial funds for job creation in response to appeals from the Palestinian
Authority (PA). At appraisal, two other job-creation projects were under preparation (ERP-2, FY96,
US$20m) and the Community Development Project Number One (CDP-1, FY97, US$10m), so no
provision was made for this component in MIDP-1. However, based on ongoing developments on the
ground, Bank management and the Board recognized the need to reallocate US$10 from the
infrastructure rehabilitation sub-component to a new Small Works sub-component. This was made
effective by an amendment to the Legal Agreement in August 1996.               Further amendments and
reallocations were made during the project life in response to the various contingencies and crises that
arose (see Section 3.2 below). In addition to the above, the relative importance of objectives changed as
the conditions changed and the project team, in consultation with the PA and under the guidance of
management sought to respond. This dynamic raises severe problems for assessment.                    OED's
guidelines clearly indicate that force majeur creates a basis for evaluation against revised objectives, but
does not provide much guidance where the relative importance of objectives are changing in response to
changing conditions. It would be unreasonable to argue that force majeur was operational for the entire
period, although it was certainly in effect after September 2000. The situation is further complicated by
the fact that implementation problems were experienced with a significant part of the capacity building



                                                      - 2 -

program at the national level (due less to exogenous factors), prompting a shift in emphasis away from
the national to the local objectives (and outputs) which were experiencing considerable success.

Relative Importance of Objectives: One element of this review has involved an assessment of the
relative importance and trade-offs among the project's main objectives, namely Infrastructure Services
and Local Government Reform and Capacity Building, taking into account the changes in priorities that
emerged during the implementation period. One way to do this is to consider the relative costs, but this
would tend to undervalue the importance of the reform and capacity building components. Clearly,
though, the latter components over time became secondary because, as the appraisal team realized,
the task "was complex" and went well beyond a single project. Thus, the project sought only to make a "
substantial beginning", as para 1.4 of the SAR states, "...the aim of the reform component was...to
break new ground by helping to initiate significant institutional reform...." After reviewing the SAR and
the other available information,      the ICR team developed a subjective ranking of the relative and
changing importance of objectives.        This is documented in Annex 1-A, and is used to assess
achievements here.       Two points in time are used: Appraisal in 1996, and the force majeur period
beginning soon after September 2000.

The findings of this ICR are based on reviews of the project files; discussions with participating agencies
and Bank appraisal and supervision staff; responses to questionnaires sent to the Ministry of Local
Government and participating municipalities; and the proceeding of a stakeholder workshop held on June
7, 2003. The findings are also based on the relative importance of objectives and components discussed
above. Details are presented in Annex 1, and in the project file. A summary of the results of the
stakeholder workshop proceedings is presented in Annex 9. In general, with respect to achievement of
original objectives, this ICR concludes as follows:


 Original Objective                          Subjective Priority     Achievement
                                                  Weighting
 Infrastructure rehabilitation and                  60%             Over-achieved
 development
 Reform and capacity building                      40%                Partially achieved
       -The local reform objectives                15%             Substantially achieved
       -The national reform objectives             25%                  Not achieved
 Overall anticipated & achieved                     100%            Most (65-70%)
 original development objectives


With respect to the de facto revised weighting of objectives and subjective priorities for the period after
the September 2000 crisis, we conclude that achievement was satisfactory (85-90%--see assessment
below).

3.2 Revised Objective:
As noted above, with unemployment increasing rapidly in WBG during 1996, at Board presentation
senior management gave assurances that MIDP-1 would also provide support for emergency job
creation. The importance of this employment support objective varied over time, as the initial crisis
ebbed and as ERP-2 and CDP-1 became effective. Apart from this, objectives remained largely
unchanged up to the Intifada--i.e., up to September 2000.            After September 2000, job creation
objectives again became very important, and at the request of the PA and with management approval,
funds were reallocated to it from the capacity building components in response. In August 2002, damage
repair was formally added to the agenda, as part of a broad formal restructuring of the WBG portfolio in
response to the crisis. To accommodate these changes, after September 2000 the national capacity
building was de facto abandoned in response to the new realities created by the crisis. These actions
were taken in consultation with the PA and with the agreement of management. The local capacity
building component was continued even after September 2000 due to strong demands from selected
(participating) municipalities (SMs), and in order to consolidate the gains already made. Further, it



                                                    - 3 -

should be noted that accounting system reform objectives were incorporated into the capacity building in
1998, in consultation the Ministry of Local Government (see discussion in Section 3.3 below). Finally, at
the request of MLG in late 1997 it was decided to provide critical start-up support for the proposed
Bethlehem 2000 project.

Although the relative weighting of the objectives began to change as early as Board, and continued to
change throughout the implementation period, in accordance with OED guidelines we only consider
changes after September 2000 to be relevant to the assessment of the achievement of objectives. The
de facto revised weighting of objectives as a result of force majeur post-September 2000 (and our
associated subjective priorities) were as follows:

   R1     Help remove critical infrastructural bottlenecks; improve essential services and facilities;
          preserve existing infrastructural assets; and create productive employment (original objective
          #1; revised priority: 47%).
   R2.    Help to generate emergency employment in response to the crisis (new objective; priority: 20%).
   R3.    Help to repair and rehabilitate essential infrastructure, services and buildings damaged because
          of the crisis (new objective; priority: 10%)
   R4.    Help strengthen the local government system, particularly to rationalize roles and
          responsibilities and build finance and managerial capacity in the selected municipalities 5


          a)     National Component (original objective #2 revised; revised priority: 5%).
          b)      Local Component (original objective #2 revised; revised priority: 15%).
   R5.    Help strengthen Accounting Systems in the Selected (participating) Municipalities (new
          sub-objective; priority: 5%)
          a)     FMIS (0%)
          b)     RMIS (5%)
   R6.    Provide start-up support for the Bank supported Bethlehem 2000 project (new objective; priority
          not included in the assessment; estimated at or below 3% of component cost).

3.3 Original Components:
The project was originally comprised of the following main components:

1.Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement, Maintenance, and Neighborhood Upgrading (US$30.9m;
    77%). Costs.6 This includes support for: 1) the rehabilitation and improvement of high priority
    infrastructure and services, including: roads; water supply, and wastewater and sanitation (West
    Bank only); 2) a four year program of infrastructure maintenance by contract; and 3) neighborhood
    upgrading--in four lower-income communities in Gaza.
.
2.Local Govt. Reform and Capacity Building (US$7.1m; 18%). This includes support for: 1) a process of
    legal, institutional, fiscal and financial reform at central and intergovernmental levels (of which the
    National Program; US$4m, 10%); and 2) a similar pilot process at the municipal level (of which the
    Local Program; US$3.1, 8%).

3.Management & Incremental Operating Expenses (US$2m; 5%). This includes support for 1) project
    coordination, accounting, monitoring and reporting; training and studies; 3) incremental operating
    expenses; and 4) vehicles, equipment, materials, supplies and spares.

The pilot local reform program encompassed five selected municipalities (the SM). Three of these were
in the West Bank and two in Gaza7.

3.4 Revised Components:
Soon after Board approval, the infrastructure component was amended to reflect the commitments
noted,8 reallocating US$10m from the main Works category to Small (labor-intensive) Works. In addition,
by early 1997, it became clear that due to its other increasingly heavy commitments the Palestinian
Authority (PA) was unable to provide its planned US$5m project contribution. The original US$45m



                                                     - 4 -

budget was thus scaled back to the US$40m contribution of the Bank, and the project scope adjusted
                                                             9


accordingly. In November 1997, at the request of the PA, the project was again amended to provide
support for the preparation of the Bethlehem 2000 (B2000) project.10 With the approval of the Ministry of
Local Government (MLG), US$1m was reallocated from the capacity building components to facilitate
this. Further, at the request of the PA and in consultation with Bank management the amount allocated to
the Small Works subcomponent was first decreased to about US$5m, and later increased to US$7.5m,
as the crisis deepened and the need for employment relief increased. In August 2002, US$2.7m was
allocated to repair infrastructure and buildings damaged during the crisis. The increase in Small Works
and the introduction of Damage Repair was achieved by scaling back and reallocating funds from the
Reform and Capacity Building component. In recognition of the impact of the crisis, and in consultation
with the PA and senior management, a formal, across-the-board reallocation of funds was undertaken in
August 2002, as part of an overall restructuring of several projects in the WBG portfolio.

Accounting System Reform: As a result of a separate request by MLG, in 1998 this new subcomponent
was included within the Reform and Capacity Building component.            Accounting system reform had
always been an important objective (see Annex 2 of SAR), but at appraisal, it was already being
separately undertaken by a complementary program, i.e. the Bank-administered Technical Assistance
                               11
Trust Fund (TATF) for WBG.          It was taken over from TATF because the latter was due to close, and
work on system development was incomplete and risked abandonment.                Incorporation was made
possible by reducing the budget for some lower-priority capacity building items. Accounting Reform itself
had 2 main subcomponents: FMIS--the Financial Management Information System (including General
Ledger and MRIS, The Municipal Reporting Information System for reporting to MLG); and RMIS--the
Revenue Management Information System (including Billing, Collections and Centralized Citizens'
Information Database) which was essentially a local program. Both programs were to be implemented
on a pilot basis.

A summary of the significant revisions is as follows:

   R1.    Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement, Maintenance, and Neighborhood Upgrading
                                                            12
          (US$24.3m; 60%; revised original component #1)
   R2.    Small    Works    (US$7.5m;     19%;   new):   This    includes  widespread,   community-based
          labor-intensive infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation works, generally costing below
          US$100, 000 per project.
   R3.    Damage repair (US$2.7m; 7%; new): This includes repairs to infrastructure and buildings
          damaged because of the crisis.
   R4.    Local Govt. Reform and Capacity Building
             a) National part of original component #2 (US$1.2m; 3 %;).
             b ) SM part of original component #2 (US$1.6m; 4 %;).
   R5.    Accounting Systems Reform (Capacity Building); US$0.5m; 1%; new): This includes support for
          the development and implementation of modern financial and management accounting and
          reporting systems on a pilot basis at national and local levels
   R6.    Bethlehem 2000 Project (US$1m; 3%; new): This includes support for the preparation of the
          proposed project.
   R7.    Management & Incremental Operating Expenses (US$1.2m; 3%; revised original component
          #1).
                                                                                   13
(NB. Original, revised and final costs are shown in Annex 2, Tables 2(a) and 2(b).

Cofinancing: The governments of Italy and Greece provided a total of US$5.5m equivalent to support
high priority road and water supply projects in the West Bank. This is separately reviewed in Annex 10.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This issue was not explicitly addressed at appraisal. However, quality was satisfactory on all five of the
usual quality criteria.




                                                    - 5 -

1. Consistency with Country Strategy: The project was consistent with and supportive of Bank Group
strategy at the time (1996). After its initial focus on rehabilitation beginning in 1994, the Bank had begun
to tackle reform issues, notably in the Water and Sanitation and Electricity Sectors. At the same time,
there was an on-going economic crisis due to Israeli border closures, and the Bank, together with other
donors responded in order to relieve a growing unemployment crisis.14 As the Bank assistance strategy
evolved, so did the relative weighting of MIDP objectives and component financing, which, as noted
above, shifted from a reform focus to temporary employment creation, damage repair and support for
other related, Bank-financed initiatives, e.g. B2000, Electric Sector and Water Sector investment
projects.

2. Project Design: The infrastructure component was an extension of works already being implemented
under ERP-1 and 2, and the SAR and was well prepared. Projects had been selected using a screening
mechanism, and based on rigorous criteria. The reform and capacity building component was also well
prepared. Reform was a new and quite complex initiative in a very complex environment, but its design
drew on best practice in the sector at the time.15 In particular, it provided for a highly participatory
deliberative process, supported by significant local and international consultant input in areas of local
weakness. There were two problematic areas. The first relates to over-ambitiousness; the second
relates to targeted outputs. It seems likely that the objectives were too ambitious given the situation in
WBG. In addition, while the appraisal team clearly stressed modesty of objectives (initiating; beginning),
the outputs targeted were anything but modest in the circumstances of WBG.

3. Participation and Dialogue during Preparation:         Considerable dialogue had taken place with the
municipalities and Ministry of Local Government (MLG) in the year prior to appraisal, and during
appraisal this dialogue was broadened to include the Minister and senior officials in the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC), the key ministries
involved.

4. Preparedness for Implementation:         The fact that effectiveness was declared just two months after
Board clearly indicated the readiness of the project. The first two years of infrastructure subprojects had
been selected based on rigorous criteria and fully prepared, and a long list had been established for the
subsequent years. With respect to reform, the foundation had been laid for establishing the structure of
the deliberative process at both national and local levels, which took place through highly participatory
policy discussion workshops in mid-1999. Further, the key studies had been identified and draft terms of
reference for consultants prepared.

5. Project Risk Evaluation: This issue was extensively addressed at appraisal. The team was clearly
aware of the high risks involved and defined these clearly. Two broad categories of risks were identified:
a) Political and Institutional: and b) Managerial and Technical. The team noted that both sets of risk were
significant and would be difficult to manage. They specified a number of necessary supporting conditions
and laid out appropriate risk mitigating measures.         In response to the anticipated uncertainty, they
specifically designed the project "to permit flexibility during implementation including the restructuring of
key components, if necessary".         During implementation, few of the specified necessary supporting
conditions were in fact met, and both sets of risks materialized-- with considerable negative
consequences. It is worth noting that one mitigation measure identified at appraisal -- namely, relying on
local governments to implement their activities within the reform component directly -- in fact took place
along the lines predicted and proved to be a key element in keeping the local-level of the reform
component largely on track.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Original Objectives

1. Help remove critical infrastructural bottlenecks; improve essential services and facilities; preserve
existing infrastructural assets; and create productive employment (priority 60%).



                                                      - 6 -

This objective was over-achieved. As shown below and in Annex 1:
l   The infrastructure component, which represented about 70 percent of original and 85 percent of final
    project costs, achieved most of its targets and overachieved on some. For example, the original
    roads target was over-achieved by 84 percent and the water targets by 7 percent; the urban
    upgrading target was fully achieved; the direct employment target          (3500 person-years) was
    substantially achieved (85 percent).
l   Some four to five hundred thousand persons in 280 communities across WBG benefited directly or
    indirectly from the project.
l   The quality of implementation and project management by PECDAR was commendable, and the
    decision to rely on SMs and the other beneficiary municipalities to implement their reform and
    infrastructure components directly proved to be essential not only in completing the works but in
    building experience and capacity at the local government level.
l   Almost all the work was undertaken by competitively selected private contractors; and no significant
    problems arose except, of course, the unavoidable delays resulting from political crisis.
l   Work continued, albeit more slowly, even during the crisis, thanks to the determination and hard
    work of the implementing agencies.

One shortcoming is worth noting, namely with regard to systematic maintenance programming. Even in
this case, however, the failure was due to a change in municipal priorities due to inadequate budgetary
resources, not a failure of effort. In addition, very substantial essential maintenance work (valued at
about US$6m) was in fact carried out, but not on the systematically programmed basis envisaged at
appraisal.

2. Strengthen the local government system, particularly to rationalize roles and responsibilities and build
finance and managerial capacity (priority 40%).
This objective was partially achieved
l   The local reform objectives (priority 15%) were substantially achieved
   o    After an early refocusing by the supervision team, three of the five SMs successfully achieved
        their targets by preparing three-year development plans, which they now use and are adapting
        for infrastructure investment purposes; two SMs undertook substantial diagnostic work, which
        has contributed to the formulation of a revived reform agenda; and most improved their
        management (automated) and GIS systems.
l   The national objectives (priority 25%) were not achieved. Though considerable dialogue between the
    central and local authorities has been initiated and now forms the basis of a broader,
    donor-coordinated reform agenda, capacity to systematically monitor sector performance has not
    been increased significantly as a result of the project.
   o    Some legal reforms were initiated (passage of a new law) but with considerable scope for
        improvement; investment programming targets were missed, but largely due to a shift from
        longer term to shorter term investment strategies, focusing increasingly now on damage repairs.

Overall Achievement of Objective

l   On the basis of the above, this ICR concludes that the overall achievement of the original objectives
    was modest, (65-70%).

Revised Objectives

R1. Help remove critical infrastructural bottlenecks; improve essential services and facilities; preserve
     existing infrastructural assets; and create productive employment (original objective #1; revised
     priority: 47%.)
     l   This objective was over-achieved (see above).

R2. Help to generate emergency employment in response to the crisis (new; priority: 20%).
     l   This objective was fully achieved.



                                                    - 7 -

      l     212 small works subprojects were successfully completed.
      l     Some 850 person-years of temporary employment were created.

R3. Help to repair and rehabilitate essential infrastructure, services and buildings damaged because of
the crisis (priority10%).
      l     This objective was fully achieved.
      l     54 damage repair subprojects were successfully completed.
      l     Several building, roads, drains, etc. were repaired.
      l     Some 300 person-years of temporary employment were created.

R4. Help strengthen the local government system, particularly to rationalize roles and responsibilities and
      build finance and managerial capacity in the selected municipalities.16
          a) National Component (original objective #2 revised; revised priority: 5%)
          b) Local Component (original objective #2 revised; revised priority: 15%).
      l     This objective was substantially achieved. (see above).

R5. Help strengthen Accounting Systems in the Selected (participating) Municipalities (National Reform
Program) (new; priority 5%)
                      a)         FMIS (0%)
      l     This objective was not achieved (see above).
                      b)         RMIS (5%)
      l     This objective was substantially achieved. (see above).

R6. Provide start-up support for the Bank supported Bethlehem 2000 project (new; priority not assessed,
      and taken into consideration in the overall assessment).
      l     This objective was fully achieved.
      l     The funds provided played a critical role in enabling the Bethlehem 2000                              Authority to
            successfully establish managerial and technical capacity, without which little would have been
            achieved.

Overall Achievement of Revised Objectives: A summary of the achievement of project objectives with
revised relative weighting subsequent to September 2000 is presented below based on the ICR team's
subjective weighting criteria.


Revised Development Objectives                                                 Subjective Priority     Achievement
R1. Help remove critical infrastructural bottlenecks; improve essential              45%               Over-achieved
services and facilities; preserve existing infrastructural assets; and create
productive employment (original objective #1)
R2. Help to generate emergency employment in response to the crisis                  20%               Fully Achieved
R3. Help to repair and rehabilitate essential infrastructure, services and           10%               Fully Achieved
buildings damaged because of the crisis
R4. Help strengthen the local government system, particularly to rationalize
roles and responsibilities and build finance and managerial capacity in the
selected municipalities.
 a) National Component (original objective #2 revised)                                5%               Not Achieved
 b) Local Component (original objective #2 revised)                                  15%            Substantially Achieved
R5. Help strengthen Accounting Systems in the Selected (participating)
Municipalities
 a) FMIS                                                                               -               Not Achieved
 b) RMIS                                                                               5
R6. Provide start-up support for the Bethlehem 2000 project                          n.a.              Fully Achieved
Overall achievement of revised development objectives                               100%             Substantial (85-90%)



4.2 Outputs by components:
Originally Planned Components



                                                                     - 8 -

1. Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$30.9m; 77%)
Output here was highly satisfactory. Of the five originally specified indicators, two were over-achieved,
three were fully achieved, and one was substantially achieved. Only one target (systematic maintenance
programming) was not achieved, and this was due mainly to changed municipal priorities noted above.
The record was as follows:
l   More than 300 high priority rehabilitation and maintenance sub-projects costing US$34.5m were
    completed (including, as noted above, some 212 under the Small Works component and 54 under
    the Damage Repair component) most within budget.
l   Original roads and water system rehabilitation targets over-achieved, with the construction of some
    184 km of roads vs. the planned 100km, and 37km of water networks vs. the planned 30.
l   Four neighborhoods serving some 3000 households in Gaza were successfully up-graded
    significantly as planned, the first time a comprehensive and consultative program of this type was
    implemented in WBG.
l   400-500,000 persons in some 280 villages and municipalities benefited directly or indirectly.
l   Some 3,000 person-years of direct employment were created (85% of target).
l   Under the labor-intensive Small Works program, about 850 person years of temporary employment
    were generated. In addition, about 100 km of roads, 2 km of curbs; 9 km of water and wastewater
    networks; 29,000 square meters of sidewalks; 2,200 cubic meters of retaining walls; 1940 square
    meters of public buildings; and 135 classrooms were constructed.
l   Under the Damage Repair program, about 12 km. of roads; 3km of water and wastewater networks,
    165 square meters of sidewalks; 2050 cubic meters of retaining walls; 5 reservoirs; 1000 square
    meters public buildings; and 62 classrooms and several community buildings were effectively
    restored to use. In addition, some 300-person years of temporary employment were created.

The pace of project disbursements also helps to provide an indication of project performance (see Annex
1, Figure 1.1). Disbursements were ahead of schedule for most of the planned period. At the planned
closing date, December 2000, Bank funds were 86% disbursed, and about 98% of the planned
infrastructure sub-projects were practically complete. The disbursement lag at the time was almost
wholly due to the slow start-up of the reform and capacity building program.

2.   Capacity Building (US$7.1m; 18%)
The overall reform and capacity building program output is deemed unsatisfactory. The outputs of the
national program were unsatisfactory. Those of the local program were satisfactory.

a)      The National Reform Program (US$4m; 10%)

Neither of the two key targets was achieved. The record was as follows:
l   Legal Reform: The PA followed through on its commitment to pass a new local government law.
    Though there were some shortcomings and the need to revise the law is quite apparent, this was a
    modest achievement in a context where there had been no previous sector regulatory framework
    previously.
l   Investment Programming Reform: MLG and MOF were unable to develop any investment
    programming mechanisms, much less ones that were sustainable.
l   Sixteen new bylaws were prepared and passed. The hoped for but originally unspecified output of
    national policy dialogue was also substantial. However, this did not compensate for shortcomings on
    key criteria.
l   Because of several difficulties in finalizing staffing and consulting arrangements and in focusing
    deliberations, this component was scaled back significantly in late 1999, in part to give way for other
    emerging priorities.
l   In the wake of eruption of the Intifada in September 2000, this component was pared back further,
    recognizing that reforms in the context of crisis were unrealistic.
l   Finally, The sub-component was virtually abandoned in August 2002, as part of a wider restructuring
    of projects in response to the crisis.




                                                      - 9 -

b)      The Local Reform Program (US$3.1m; 8%)

Outputs were satisfactory, following an early redesign of the component by the supervision team acting
in consultation with MLG. The redesign was partly in response to lessons learned from the difficulties
with the national component, and partly in response to the priorities and expressed wishes of the five
SMs, It involved the preparation of Three-year Investment/Development Plans tailored to the particular
needs of each SM. These Plans covered the key municipal issues of service delivery, cost recovery,
commercialization, community participation, investment programming, accounting and finance.             The
record was as follows:
l    Investment Programming: Three of the five SMs successfully prepared the required detailed 3-year
     Investment/Development Plans. Two SMs undertook detailed diagnostics, and one of the latter was
     only deterred from completing its plan by the onset of the Intifada and the Bank's decision to scale
     back the program.
l    Participation: Four SMs successfully engaged in widespread internal and community dialogue on
     the role, structure and functioning of the municipality. Consultations in one municipality in particular
     (Hebron) involved widespread participation of women--a very significant development in a
     traditionally conservative area in WBG.
l    Systems: Four of the five SMs significantly upgraded their computer networks and Geographical
     Information Systems (GIS);
l    Training: One SM (Gaza) established a well-equipped, fairly sophisticated and well-patronized
     computer training center.
l    Commercialization: One SM (Hebron) has already begun commercializing its electricity operations
     under a parallel Bank electricity project. Others (Gaza and Rafah) are participating in the water
     sector commercialization efforts being supported under another parallel Bank water project. This
     willing commercialization was due in no small measure to the impact of project, particularly to the
     three-year investment planning exercise which tackled and supported these measures.
l    Systematic Maintenance Programming: This subcomponent--developing a systematic and well
     funded approach to maintenance programming management by private contractors--was omitted by
     agreement with the municipalities. This was due partly to fears by the supervision team that already
     stretched municipal capacity would be overloaded, partly to the expressed need of the
     municipalities to continue to focus on the backlog of rehabilitation work, and partly to the damage
     repair needs arising as a result of the crisis in late 2000.

c)      Accounting Systems Reform ( Not Originally Planned)

        i) FMIS: Outputs were unsatisfactory. The record was as follows:

l   The system software was selected and installed in the two SMs and MLG;
l   Twelve to fourteen municipal accountants were trained overseas in accrual based systems;
l   Work on implementation was significantly delayed, and was de facto terminated in early 2001. This
    was due partly to the fact that MLG were unable to prepare satisfactory terms of reference or provide
    effective technical and consulting support, and partly to the onset of the crisis.

          ii) RMIS: Outputs were satisfactory. The record was as follows:

l   New billing, collection and citizen information systems were installed and operationalized in nine out
    of the planned ten municipalities.

   The key RMIS objective was thus substantially achieved.

3. Management & Incremental Operating Expenses (US$2m; 5%; revised original component #1).
Output here was highly satisfactory
.
l   PECDAR performed very well in keeping accounts, managing funds, and producing useful if not
    always timely reports.



                                                     - 10 -

Revised Outputs (percentages may not add to 100% as they are rounded)

R1. Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement, Maintenance, and Neighborhood Upgrading
                                                            20
     (US$24.3m; 60%; revised original component #1).
Output here was highly satisfactory (see section above).

R2. Small Works (US$7.5m; 19%; new): This includes a) widespread, community-based labor-intensive
     infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation works, generally costing below US$100, 000 per
     project
Output here was highly satisfactory
.
l   About 850 person-years of temporary employment were generated. In addition,
l   About 100 km of roads, 2 km of curbs; 9 km of water and wastewater networks; 29,000 square
    meters of sidewalks; 2,200 cubic meters of retaining walls; 1940 square meters of public buildings;
    and 135 classrooms were constructed

R3. Damage repair (US$2.7m; 7%; new): This includes repairs to infrastructure and building damaged
      because of the crisis.
Output here was highly satisfactory.

l   About 12 km. of roads; 3km of water and wastewater networks, 165 square meters of sidewalks;
    2050 cubic meters of retaining walls; 5 reservoirs; 1000 square meters public buildings; and 62
    classrooms and several community buildings were effectively restored to use. In addition, some
    300-person years of temporary employment were created.
l   About 500 person-years of temporary employment were generated.

R4. Local Govt. Reform and Capacity Building (US$3.3m; 8%)
         a)      National part of original component #2 (US$1.2m; 4 %;).
Output here was unsatisfactory (see above).

         b)      SM part of original component #2 (US$1.6m; 5 %;).
Output here was highly satisfactory (see above).

R5. Accounting Systems Reform (Capacity Building); US$0.5m; 1%; new):
Output here was highly satisfactory (see above)

R6. Bethlehem 2000 Project (US$1m; 3%; new):
Output here was highly satisfactory. (see above).

R7. Management & Incremental Operating Expenses (US$1.2m; 3%; revised original component #1).
Output here was highly satisfactory (see above)

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The on-going crisis made it difficult to re-estimate the economic rate of return (ERR) of the project for
two reasons: First, it proved very difficult to collect the necessary data on a timely basis, largely because
of travel restrictions. Vastly complicating the data collection problem was the spread of the 327
subprojects across some 280 localities in WBG. Second, some of the key the assumptions (including
travel) on which the original analysis was based are no longer valid. As noted elsewhere in this report,
the crisis resulted in the severe restrictions in the movement of people and goods due to roadblocks, and
the consequent sharp reduction in traffic, particularly on the regional roads. In addition, the crisis caused
severe economic dislocation, leading to sharp increases in unemployment and poverty, and a fall in
incomes. This in turn led to decrease in demand and ability to pay for municipal services. The net result,
for example, was a reduction in water consumption; a decrease in willingness to pay outstanding bills; a
consequent reduction in municipal revenues; and a likely decline in the changes in property values.



                                                      - 11 -

Thus, the economics of the project has been seriously compromised. Because of these factors and the
lack of reliable data, it was difficult to undertake a credible analysis. Thus, we only present a qualitative
review.

In summary, this ICR concludes that, had there been no crisis, it seems likely that the project would have
achieved its target 14 percent minimum ERR. This is so despite the change in the project's structure.
Experience elsewhere in WBG and other countries indicates that the small labor intensive maintenance
subprojects (which included, roads, water and sanitation, sidewalks, retaining walls and community
buildings among others) generally yield quite high rates of return. The maintenance component, which
was not evaluated in detail but was known to yield high rates of return, was only slightly reduced. The
Urban upgrading component remained intact. The value of the relatively robust roads component was
reduced from 42 to 31 percent of the total, while the value of the more sensitive water and wastewater
component was reduced from 22 to 10 percent. (See Annex 3 for details.)

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
MIDP-1 had a substantial impact. This is so despite insignificant achievements against the national
reform objectives. The following examples may be cited:
l   MIDP-1 created the first broad-based framework for local government sector development in WBG
    by launching strategic dialogue on key policy reform issues, including, among others: investment
    programming; accountability; citizen databases; tax reform; commercialization of service delivery;
    maintenance programming; accrual-based accounting systems; planning, budgeting and financial
    management systems; and MIS and GIS systems development and training. These issues were first
    systematically addressed in MIDP-sponsored policy dialogue workshops held in mid-1999. They
    were the first to include broad-based discussions not only with MLG and municipality participation,
    but also, vitally, with MOF as well, with the aim of addressing deficiencies in intergovernmental
    transfers (transparency and adequacy) and the need to increase local government own source
    revenues (relating to the commercialization of utility services and the loss of direct utility surcharge
    revenues). While achievement of specific reforms faced setbacks due to both endogenous and
    exogenous factors, MIDP-1 clearly contributed to considerable learning on key sector issues,
    particularly at the time of its inception (1996) when the general focus of municipalities and the PA
    was on physical rehabilitation.
l   MIDP-1 effectively enabled the transition from emergency implementation of infrastructure
    investment planning and execution (handled mainly by a transitional government implementing
    agency previously) to selected municipalities, who also proved to be capable of implementing
    several reform and capacity building initiatives (RMIS and preparation of 3 Year Development
    Plans). This served to counteract a growing tendency to rely on central agencies for implementation
    of donor-financed programs.
l   MIDP-1 provided a platform that enabled donors to mobilize resources and coordinate intervention
    strategies for the first time in WBG. Previously, donors had been working at various levels in
    piecemeal fashion: UNDP had been working at the village level on local capacity building; the
    Germans had been working with selected municipalities on improving water and sanitation services;
    and USAID had been focusing on elections. Other donors active in the sector -- Canada, the
    Netherlands, Italy and Japan -- increasingly began to coordinate their interventions and to provide
    support that was complementary to the broader sector reform agenda. Indeed, many of these donors
    have now come together in support of the PA's Local Government Reform initiative, in which the
    Bank and other donors remain engaged and provide vital technical assistance to the PA and
    municipalities in undertaking sector reforms, i.e. auditing of municipal accounts and proposed
    establishment of a Municipal Fund.
l   German aid agencies have adopted the successful RMIS program, piloted under MIDP-1, as the
    basis for its financial support in the sector through a future planned intervention.
l   MIDP-1 helped lay the foundation for future Bank and other donor interventions.            The MIDP-2
    (US$7.5m, FY 00) and Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project (EMSRP, US$20m, FY



                                                     - 12 -

     03) were largely designed on the basis of prior dialogue and capacity building achievements of
     MIDP-1, and the aim of establishing a Municipal Fund emerged largely out of prior policy discussions
     that took place under MIDP-1.
l    MIDP-1 supported the establishment of the Bethlehem 2000 Authority and its linkages with local
     municipalities, placing cultural heritage preservation as a key priority on the local development
     agenda and creating the basis for a new lending operation.
l    Further, as noted, MIDP-1 provided lateral support to other Bank institutional reform efforts, notably
     in the water sector in Gaza and the electricity sector in the Hebron District of the southern West
     Bank.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were several factors outside of the control of the implementing agencies, including the periodic
outbreaks of violence and Israeli military closures and curfews that characterized the period of
implementation from the very beginning (1996), but were exacerbated considerably during the second
Intifada beginning in September 2000.       The impact of these factors was to (i) substantially distract key
policy makers and implementors from focusing on reforms during times when they were under attack; (ii)
delay the delivery (at times significantly) of construction inputs, causing implementation lags and
bottlenecks and raising project costs due to shortages of key materials, (iii) cause physical damages to
PA public facilities and to infrastructure that necessitated immediate repairs, thus involving incorporation
of a new objective and component into the project's design; (iv) create fiscal distress at the central and
local government levels due to revenue losses, thus distracting from the project's original focus on
improving local government financial management, as most were trying to survive at a time when
residents were unable to pay for basic municipal services; and, (v) cause difficulties (in many cases
making it impossible) to contract services of international consultants who were not prepared to travel to
WBG to provide capacity building support, and, in the case of local consultants, movement restrictions
imposed that made it difficult if not impossible for them to visit municipalities to undertake their tasks.

Despite the prevailing crisis in 1996 (which in retrospect was quite mild compared to September 2000
onward), the Palestinian Authority (PA) and the Bank both felt that it was essential to move beyond mere
rehabilitation and emergency job creation and begin to tackle more deeply entrenched institutional
issues. This venture, despite the risks, appeared sound following a stabilization of the political situation
and economic recovery beginning in 1998. However, crisis returned to the areas in September 2000 with
the second Intifada, which over time proved to be more enduring and even more threatening to a
peaceful settlement than ever before. Here the crisis was very deep, encompassing the entire social,
economic and institutional fabric of WBG as a whole, the impact of which is summarized in the Bank's
February 2003 Economic Assessment report:

l    The economy has shrunk by half, with GNI losses exceeding US$5.4 billion, the equivalent of one
     whole year of wealth creation.
l    Raw physical damage now exceeds US$725 million.
l    The movement of people and goods is severely restricted both internally and between the
     Palestinians areas and Israel, because of a vast network of some 140 Israeli army check points and
     various blockages and blockades
l    Unemployment has grown from 10 percent of the labor force in the third quarter of 2002, and now
     stands at some 42 .percent (53 percent if those not seeking work are included).
l    The numbers of poor have tripled to more than 2 million, about 60 percent of the population
l    Municipalities and village councils have lost almost half of their previous revenues and are thus barely
     able to cope with maintenance and service delivery---leaving roads, waterlines and sewers
     unrepaired and streets strewn with garbage. The challenge to public health is obvious.
l    PA ministries and agencies have been badly shaken, and are operating far below previous levels--
     where they are operating at all, e.g. MLG offices in Ramallah had to be moved to new premises due
     to damages incurred as a result of the ongoing exchanges of violence.

Needless to say, the above crises served to undermine the original project objectives and were to be of



                                                     - 13 -

major concern throughout the entire project implementation period. They also created major difficulties
in carrying out the final assessment of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
An important objective, one that distinguished MIDP-1 from its predecessors, was that of initiating reform
in the local government sector. As noted, this objective was not achieved, and the shortcoming here
tended to lie mainly with MLG. Despite issues of scope and timing, much more could probably have been
accomplished on the national program if MLG itself had shown greater leadership, the crisis situation
notwithstanding. At appraisal, the senior political and administrative leadership MOF, MOPIC, MLG and
the municipalities all seem to have been open and willing to participate and support the reform process
and the consulting resources necessary to sustain this support were available under the program.
However, MLG's implementation efforts tended to be less than zealous, and the essential consulting
support services provided for under the program were never fully or effectively utilized. This contributed
significantly to the unsatisfactory performance of the national program. The opportunity for many, if not
all, of the proposed reforms certainly seems to have been there during the 1996-2000 period, if not
afterwards. This is evidenced by the success of the local reform program and RMIS under no less (and
perhaps more) difficult environmental circumstances.

A difficult but necessary task is to explain MLG's behavior. At the stakeholders' workshop, MLG's
Deputy Minister who was in charge of the program explained that the Ministry had been fully committed
to the project throughout, but that in retrospect it was too ambitious. It is important to bear in mind that
the Palestinian Authority itself was established in late 1993 and many of the line ministries were only
beginning to establish their foundations and regulatory roles by 1994. Further, their own capacity had
been was overstretched by day-to-day fire-fighting issues. While these factors bear consideration, they
do not fully account for MLG's reluctance to more fully utilize the technical assistance provided for under
the project, at least during periods of relative stability. A review of the implementation experience (see
document on project file) indicates that the explanation is probably far more complex. Part of the
explanation seems to lie in incentives, accountability, leadership and capacity.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
 There were no significant negative factors here.

5.4 Costs and financing:
  The only significant issue was the inability of the PA to provide their planned share ($5m) of the
financing.   This was due to constraints on the national budget and the increasing need to fund
unemployment and hardship alleviation programs. The constraints were recognized by the supervision
team early in 1997 and, in response, the scope of the project was reduced. This was done, however,
without significantly affecting key project objectives. With respect to cofinancing, as noted above the
Governments of Italy and Greece contributed a total of US$5.5m equivalent to the project.




                                                     - 14 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
This ICR rates the sustainability of MIDP-1 as likely, but highly dependent on exogenous factors. There
are two main issues here. First, in the current circumstances of deep crisis little is sustainable in WBG.
Thus, we have to look beyond the immediate context to a less unsettled future. The second issue relates
to the project itself. Sustainability of the infrastructure component is not an immediate issue since
donors, including the Bank, continue to provide significant funding in this area and local institutions are
improving their capacity for maintenance--albeit slowly. However, this sustainability is, arguably, not a
product of the project itself. More to the point are the following:

l   The reform program has been embraced by MLG and the municipalities are now the cornerstone of
    their strategy and their development programming.
l   The program has also been embraced (quietly) by donors and forms a basis for their programming.
l   Both MLG and the municipalities went through an intensive program of "learning" even as they made
    mistakes, and this learning went well beyond the first tier of management, often to the operational
    level.
l   The communities in which the program was set also learned about issues of accountability and
    responsiveness, and are likely to continue to make demands on the municipalities.
l   The strategic planning exercises should have solid long-term pay offs in terms of better planning,
    management and service delivery, as well as better cost recovery. This is likely to happen based on
    the supervision team's observation of the ongoing efforts of municipalities assisted under MIDP-1 to
    consciously undertake planning exercises, while adjusting their short-term focus on emergency
    response interventions.
l   MIDP-1 has also led to initiatives at commercialization of utility services which should have
    significant long term payoffs.
l   Municipalities and MLG obtained new tools and equipment (GIS, MIS, Computers, project evaluation
    and strategic planning techniques) which are being utilized today to improve their efficiency and
    capacity.

Taken together, the above factors provide a solid basis for sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
It has already been noted that MIDP-1 has prepared the groundwork for and given rise to MIDP-2 and
EMSRP, both of which build on reform elements of MIDP-1, but which focus, more modestly, on critical
areas of assistance that are priorities under the present emergency circumstances. Based on learning
from the MIDP-1 experience, project design of these two latter interventions has been largely focused on
demand-driven arrangements with local governments as the key implementing agencies. Performance
incentives built into their design ensure that capacity building needs are addressed in a demand-driven
manner at the local level. The experience gained by SMs under MIDP-1, notably Gaza, Hebron and
Nablus, now provides them with the basic tools to proceed with their own initiatives at their own pace.
For example, as noted earlier, some have already begun commercialization of utility services. In
addition, the recently adopted Local Government Reform initiative, which has attracted considerable
donor attention and support is likely to continue the reforms initiated under MIDP-1.            While the
middle-sized municipalities might be able to cope on their own if the local reform program is further
developed, it must be acknowledged that the smaller and more financially-distressed municipalities will
continue to need MLG support for a considerable period. The effectiveness of this support will depend
largely on the evolving political context, MLG's sustained commitment to sector reforms, and donor
support to strengthen MLG itself, which is being addressed in part through the ongoing design of a
Municipal Fund under EMSRP.




                                                     - 15 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was, on balance, satisfactory. The SAR included an in-depth assessment of all key
areas that would typically be addressed under a first municipal development project.               The project
preparation team drew upon other regional good practice experience (Nazareth) and modeled some
aspects of the approach toward local reform and capacity building on this experience. Project design
also took into account pipeline and parallel Bank operations in the water and electricity sectors where
significant potential for mutually-reinforcing interventions and coordinated action was needed. Project
design of the infrastructure component built on successful gained experience from ERP I and drew on
lessons learned. Furthermore, the approach of scaling up from first generation emergency rehabilitation
works to institution building was consistent with and reinforcing of the WBG assistance strategy. In
particular, and consistent with OED review of the Bank's assistance strategy, the project design called for
the first step in a transition from emergency project implementation, largely handled by a temporarily
established implementation agency (PECDAR) in the past, to include direct implementation by Selected
Municipalities (SMs) where implementation capacity was deemed to be sufficient to proceed without
PECDAR support. This was confirmed by the achivements of the components that these municipalities
managed. The project team also demonstrated its responsiveness to client needs as early as the Board
decision juncture, when developments on the ground in a very fluid situation demanded adjustments to
the original project design very early on.

With regard to specific components, the infrastructure rehabilitation program was very well prepared and,
as consequence, went very well.          The design of the capacity building program proved to be
overambitious, though it too was technically well prepared.        Here, the project     appraisal team may
have overestimated the possibilities for significant sector reform. In retrospect, the team did not appear
to have fully realized the nature of the political regime, or the many and various distractions that would
take place during implementation due to the unpredictable nature of the peace process (see section 5.2
above). It could be argued that these issues should have been better appreciated at appraisal. Upon
further consideration, however, the following should be borne in mind:

l   All the risks that did eventually materialize (including the political risks) were in fact identified by the
    team at appraisal and, to a large extent, appropriate mitigation measures were proposed and acted
    upon. It is worth noting in particular the following from the SAR, (pg. 16): "Managerial and technical
    risks would be minimized by allocating as much responsibility as possible to municipalities..." This is
    in fact what happened as national level efforts failed to materialize on several fronts.
l   Reform programs are inherently challenging tasks and the prospect of attaining sustainable
    achievements is mitigated considerably in a conflict-affected environment. However, it is also worth
    pointing out that those achievements that did materialize, and they were considerable, would not
    have been attained had the agenda been more modest in terms of the reform agenda.
l   The team's institutional design provided for a flexible, participatory, bottom-up process with
    considerable room for learning, and technical support to offset the known weaknesses. Again, as
    noted in the project design (SAR, page 16): "The project has been specifically designed to permit
    flexibility during implementation, including restructuring of key components, if necessary."

7.2 Supervision:
The team's performance was satisfactory      21Supervision missions were jointly organized with other Bank
task teams to ensure overall cohesiveness in the Bank's program strategy and delivery, particularly with
respect to coordination needed on water and electricity sector reforms. The field presence of the Bank
supervision team and the TTL in particular enabled effective donor coordination, intensive supervision
and client dialogue on challenging elements of the reform agenda. When water and electricity sector
reforms were underway involving commercialization of municipal assets, heavy reliance was placed on
the MIDP I supervision team to facilitate these discussions and to address them within the framework of




                                                    - 16 -

the broader municipal reform agenda. The Bank supervision team was also responsive to the changing
needs of the client in a volatile implementation environment. Several adjustments were made during
the course of implementation to the financing of components, particularly with regard to emergency
employment creation in response to client demands. In addition, when preparation of the Bethlehem
2000 Project required immediate support, both the project team and financing resources were redirected
to this effort under MIDP I. Although many of these adjustments were not anticipated at the project's
outset, the flexibility in project design and responsiveness of the team made this possible.

Sound design and regular supervison of the infrastructure component and, later, various emergency
components, coupled with strong, capable implementing agencies, enabled these elements of the
project to perform quite well. When national-level reforms proved to be too difficult to pursue at various
junctures, the strategy outlined in the SAR was invoked, whereby SMs were delegated greater
responsibility to implement their own programs, and here they generally performed quite well,
particularly in preparing their three-year investment programs and in implementing the RMIS.             In
general, the team was responsive, resourceful and flexible throughout, particularly so with respect to the
local reform program and after the Intifada.         There were two seeming areas of weakness on the
national-level reform sub-component: 1) In retrospect, the team probably should have acted earlier and
more decisively to restructure the national program and the support unit, and to pressure MLG more
strongly into recruiting capable consultants. 2) They probably should have acted earlier to terminate this
subcomponent, particularly in early 2000 when it became apparent that MLG was not acting decisively
on its responsibilities. In this regard, the team took into consideration the gradual nature of the reform
process and perhaps allowed too much time for decisive action to be taken at the national level.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
This is deemed, on balance, satisfactory. The team's responsiveness to client demands and adjustments
made accordingly not only enabled MIDP I to respond better to the evolving situation on the ground, but
also enabled other Bank interventions to proceed effectively in the water and electricity sector and in
Bethlehem 2000.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
This is deemed satisfactory. The Borrower and the Bank worked closely together on all issues during
project    preparation     including   infrastructure project identification and   prioritization, costing,
implementation arrangements, and defining the capacity building components.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
This was unsatisfactory. MLG bore overall governmental responsibility for implementation though some
tasks were delegated to others. However, the outputs of two of the four main reform and capacity
building subcomponents for which MLG was directly responsible, including the key national reform
component, were unsatisfactory, reflecting a weakness in capacity and commitment to deliver. While
MLG's performance was affected in part by exogenous factors, i.e. an ongoing conflict situation in which
their office premises had to be changed due to damages incurred during periods of conflict, there were
periods where the hostile implementation environment was not the principle cause for MLG's inability to
deliver on its commitments.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of both PECDAR and the SMs, the main implementing agencies, was highly
satisfactory. The SMs were largely responsible for their own infrastructure and capacity building
programs, and implemented these well. In doing so, they demonstrated considerable initiative, leadership
and capacity. PECDAR's capacity to monitor and report on the infrastructure components contributed
significantly to infrastructure and project management successes, as did its capacity to manage the
project finance and accounting system as a whole effectively. These capacities were built up under the
first Bank infrastructure project (ERP-1).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                                     - 17 -

This is deemed, on balance, satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons have been learned, of which the most important are the following:

1.        Constituency for Reform: Commitment at the highest levels        of government must be very
carefully assessed prior to and during implementation with projects involving an ambitious reform
agenda, particularly where issues involving the possible devolution of power are involved. Success
critically depends on strong national (and local) commitment and leadership both before and throughout
implementation. It also depends on the timely provision of competent technical assistance. Further, it
critically depends on the alignment of incentives and accountabilities within the political and
administrative system, as well as in project design.

2.        Complexity of the Reform Process and "Policy Learning": Comprehensive sector reform is a
complex and difficult task in the best of circumstances, and is perhaps impossible when survival issues
are simultaneously on the national agenda. Because the reform process is complex, programs must be
carefully and flexible paced, particularly with a newly-emerging state apparatus where sector regulatory
experience is only in its nascent stages.         Furthermore, interventions must be continuously and
intelligently modified during implementation, as the situation develops. Finally, the team should be open
to the considerable "learning" that is involved in the reform process (on the part of the government, the
municipalities, the donors and the Bank team itself), and seek to use this learning to inform and focus
current and future project design.

3.        Supervision Requirements: Supervision of reform is highly demanding, especially in a
conflict-affected context. The team needs to be determined, sensitive to the situation as it develops, and
flexible and proactive when necessary to keep the program on track. They also need to act quickly and
decisively when derailment threatens. Also, a country-based supervision team is essential to ensure
continuity in dialogue and constant monitoring of progress on the reform agenda.

4.        Local Capacity: Significant implementation capacity exists even at the lower levels of the local
government system. MIDP's design included assumptions about a shifting of responsibility away from
emergency implementation procedures through central agencies to the piloting of implementation locally
through Selected Municipalities (SMs), which proved to be a very rewarding approach (and consistent
with OED's recommendation in 1999 to focus on institutional strengthening).            Provided adequate
technical support, SMs demonstrated that they are quite capable of undertaking medium-sized
subprojects ($5-7m) on their own. The smaller municipalities are quite capable of undertaking projects in
the $0.1-0.5m range. Local institutions also possess considerable initiative and resiliency. This was
amply demonstrated during the later stages of the project, particularly after September 2000 when
movement of Palestinian personnel became severely restricted. During this period, the second and third
batches of small works were successfully completed.

5.        Effective Portfolio Management.      MIDP-1 demonstrated that effective lateral support and
coordination between Bank supervision teams can yield significant results in terms of leveraging
synergies across the Bank portfolio. Ongoing interventions in the water and electricity sectors involving
commercialization of utility services once managed by municipalities were heavily dependent on sector
reform dialogue initiated under MIDP-1 at the local government level. MIDP-1 was also restructured to
enable rapid preparation of the Bethlehem 2000 Project, responding to an emerging client demand, and
was effectively adapted to enable support to the TATF by picking up on design work to further support
the strengthening of local financial management systems.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

These are presented separately at Annex 8.



                                                    - 18 -

MLG did not provide formal comments but did respond to a questionnaire (see project file), and at the
stakeholders' workshop. Their responses indicate, inter alia, that:

l   They strongly supported, believed in and were committed MIDP-1 (at appraisal and throughout).
l   The program's analysis, objectives and design were correct.
l   MIDP-1 now provides the foundation for their development policy and programming.
l   The program should be reactivated when political conditions permit.
l   The main problem was that the national program was over-ambitiousness, particularly with respect to
    the timetable.
l   The accounting system reform programs were essential and should be continued.
l   The Bank provided strong and supportive leadership throughout.

The SMs believed that MIDP-1:

l   Provided extremely valuable support for strategic and financial planning and institutional reform.
l   Strengthened their managerial capacity and improved their responsiveness to the local community.
l   Helped improve infrastructure and services.
l   Helped provide critical emergency employment support.
l   It should be further developed and extended system wide.
l   The Bank provided strong and supportive leadership throughout.

PECDAR, for their part, believed that:

l   The infrastructure component was successful.
l   The capacity building component was a complete failure.

However, they offer no evidence to support the latter conclusion.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Very positive supporting comments have been received from the Government of Italy (see Annex 8) . In
particular, they thank the Bank supervision team for their efforts on Italy's behalf.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable

10. Additional Information

A stakeholders' workshop was held on June 7, 2003. The minutes of the workshop are attached in Annex
9. While there were some critical comments, the response of stakeholders was generally positive. There
was a consensus that:

1. The infrastructure component was very successful;
2. The national reform component was essential to sector development but was, perhaps,
    over-ambitious; and
3. Despite the problems experienced at the national level, MIDP-1's impact was significant:
4. It provided, and continues to provide, the foundation for sector development programs.




                                                  - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table 1.1: Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix1, Targets and
               Achievement
Objective/Indicator                   Unit       Targe  Achievement                  Comment
                                                   t
       Original Indicators
Part A Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Improvement
I. Removing Critical
Bottlenecks And Improving The
Quality Of Life In Low Income
Households
1. Village, Municipal and             Km.         100     184          Objective overachieved
Regional Roads rehabilitated         (cumulative)
and/or con-structed
2. Villages/Municipalities            No. of      30      37          Objective overachieved
benefiting from improvements to       Villages
Water, Wastewater and/or Sewage
systems
3. Households living in upgraded      No of      3,000   3000         Objective achieved
project neighborhoods                 House-ho
                                      lds
                                      (cum.)
4. Beneficiaries of infrastructure    No. of      NA    4-500,00       Persons in some 280 communities
and service improvements              Benefi-c             0           across WBG, 35 in Gaza and 245 in
                                      iaries                           the West Bank2.
II. Preserving Existing
Infrastructure Assets
5. SM's develop and implement a       Completion  Q3         Not       Objective abandoned due to other
well funded and sustainable O&M       date        `97   accomplished   municipal priorities
program.
III. Creating Productive
Employment
6. Direct employment created.         Person-    3,500   3000          Objective substantially (85%)
                                      Years                            achieved. The wage rates were higher
                                                                       and the labor content somewhat less
                                                                       than originally estimated.
Part B Strengthening The
Local Government System
I. Rationalizing Roles (National
Reform Program)
7. EAPC adopt new LG Law              Completion Q3,         Not       New "Councils" law passed in 1997
incorpo-rating a clear and efficient  date        `96   accomplished   but without benefit of review, and
specifica-tion of municipal roles                                      more    centralizing  than   expected.
and responsi-bilities.                                                 Reform        component        lagged
                                                                       considerably, and finally abandoned in
                                                                       2001 due to Intifada.
8. MOF and MLG develop                Completion Q4,  Not accomplished No action taken. Reform component
sustain-able LG investment            date        `97                  lagged   considerably,    and  finally
programming and program review                                         abandoned in 2001 due to Intifada.
capacity.
II. SM Capacity Building (Local
Reform Program)
9. SMs begin implementing new         Completion Q3,  Largely          9 municipalities, including 3 SMs




                                                      - 20 -

standardized accounting and           date        `98 accomplished      successfully      implement        new
financial management systems on a                                       computerized revenue management
trial basis, begin making provision                                     systems. Work on new computerized
for increased maintenance, and                                          financial management system begun
begin implementing increased cost                                       but abandoned due to lack of MLG
recovery measures.                                                      capacity and Intifada.
10. SMs fully adopt new financing, CompletionQ3, `97 Largely           3  of   5  SMs     complete   Investment
investment,    cost   recovery,   and date            accomplished     Programming, and 2 other complete
taxa-tion strategy, and complete                                       diagnostic.
reform of financial management and
accounting systems.
11. SMs develop sustainable O&M       Completion Q3,  Not accomplished  Objective abandoned due to other
program and programming               date        `98                   municipal priorities.
capacity.
Additional Indicators
Part A
Small Works (job creation)
1.Subprojects                           no.               212
2.Direct employment generated         person              850
                                       years
3.Roads                                 km.                97
4.Kerbs                                 km.                 2
5.Sidewalks                             m2              29,000
6.Retaining Walls                       m3               2,200
7.Water & Sanitation netwoks            km.                 9
8.Water Tanks/Reservoirs                No.
9.Public and Community                  m2               1940
Build-ings
10.Classrooms                           no.               135
Damage Repair
1. Subprojects                          no.                54
2. Direct employment generated        person              300
                                       years
3. Roads                                km.                12
4. Kerbs                                km.
5. Sidewalks                            m2                165
6. Retaining Walls                      m3               2050
7. Water & Sanitation networks          km.                 3
8. Water Tanks/Reservoirs               No.                 5
9. Public and Community                 m2               1000
Build-ings
10. Classrooms                          no.                62
11. Toilet Blocks                        no                 3
Part B
FMIS
1. Establishment of a modern,         Completio   Q4   Partially         Software selected and installed in the
com-puterized municipal financial     n of action `03  accomplished      2 SMs and MLG.
management information system
2. Accounts converted from cash to    Completio Q4 `03 Not               Not attempted.
modified accrual basis                n of action      accomplished
3. Updating computing equipment       Completio Q4 `03 Not accomplished  Not attempted.
and networks to run system.           n of action
4. Establishment of a Municipal       Completio Q4 `03 Not               Not attempted.
Re-porting System                     n of action      accomplished
5. Strengthening MLG's capacity to Completio Q4 `03 Partially            A team of some 12-14 municipal chief
guide, plan, manage and support the n of action        accomplished      accountants led by MLG, received



                                                      - 21 -

 sector by linking the new systems to                                                                              training in new systems at University
 the Minis-try's own information                                                                                   of Georgia in the US.
 systems, creating over time a
 compre-hensive national financial
 in-formation network for local
 government

 RMIS
 1. Development and                                            Completio         Q4         Almost                 Systems in place and operational.
 implementa-tion of modern                                     n of action       `03        completely             Nablus municipality not completed,
 computerized billing and collection                                                        achieved (90%)         apparently due to conflicting technical
 systems for municipal services,                                                                                   views          between   consultant      and
 taxes and fees. in 10 pilot                                                                                       municipality IT staff.
 municipalities in Gaza and West
 Bank.
 2. Establishment of a modern                                  Completio Q4 `03             Almost                 Done in 9 of 10 participating
com-puterized citizen information                              n of action                  completely             municipalities.
database                                                                                    achieved (90%)
 3. Updating of municipal                                      Completio        Q4          Almost                 Done in 9 of 10 participating
 comput-ing equipment and                                      n of action      `03         completely             municipalities.
 networks to run the new system.                                                            achieved (90%)


1.                       The project was prepared before the Log Frame system was fully developed in the Bank.
2.                       This is very difficult to accurately determine as we do not have accurate population data for all the communities in which there were
                         subprojects. Here we assume that between a fifth and a quarter of the population of the 280 project communities benefited. Using census
                         data adjusted to the end of 2002, this results in an estimate of 12-15% of the total population. This may be a little high, but not excessively
                         so when it is realized that the project (particularly the small works sub-component) served some 41% of the 683 localities identified in the
                         census. While there may be some double counting, the benefits were obviously widespread.


                                                                     Figure 1.1 Disbursement


                          4 5 .0


                          4 0 .0


                          3 5 .0


                          3 0 .0

       (US$m)
                          2 5 .0


                          2 0 .0


                          1 5 .0
             Disbursement

                          1 0 .0                                                                                         S A R F o r e c a s t

                            5 .0                                                                                         A c tu a l


                            0 .0      Q3       Q1       Q3       Q1       Q3       Q1        Q3      Q1      Q3      Q1       Q3      Q1      Q3     Q1
                                        96       97       97       98       98       99        99      00      00      01       01      02      03     03


                                                                                       C a le n d a r Ye a r




                                                                                           - 22 -

Table 1.2: Local Government Policy Reform and Development Matrix, Proposed
                   Actions and Actual Achievement

           Actions Proposed in SAR, 1996-98                                      Actual Achievement
Legal and Institutional Reform
LG Legal/ Institutional Framework
CY 96
         Establish LITC                                        LITCestablishedin1997.
         Review and propose structure, roles and functions     DraftLaws(ElectionsandCouncils)wereseparately
financing and accountability of LG system in consultation      prepared in 1995, and presented to the Legislative Council
with stakeholders.                                             in 1996. They were approved in 1996 and 1997
         Local Government Law presented to parliament.        respectively. The Councils Law was the much more
         Local government elections.                          centralizing of the two versions presented to the Bank at
                                                               appraisal.
                                                                TheMinisterofLGwasreluctanttohavethenewlaw
                                                               reviewed so soon after passage so it was agreed to delay
                                                               this review until later in the process.
                                                                LGelectionswerescheduledseveraltimesbeginning
                                                               in late 1996 but none have been held to date.
Fiscal and Financial Reform
LG Revenue Structure & Strategy
CY 96
         Establish FTC                                         FTCestablishedin1997.
         Prepare framework for legislation and regulations     Metanddeliberatedforabout15months.
for new revenue structure.                                      Prepared16draftby-laws,butlackedoverall
         Prepare regulations and administrative procedures    framework to guide this initiative.
for new revenues.                                               NationalWorkshopinApril1999agreedontheneed
         Initiate preparation of training programs.           to restructure program.
         Prepare and implement training programs for new       WorkterminatedpendingreorganizationofFTC.
revenue administration.                                         RestructuringPlanAgreedinlate1999butnever
         Initiate new revenue regime.                         implemented by MLG.
LG Capital Investment Policy & Programming
CY 96
         Assemble data on total local government level         MLGlackedthecapacitytoprovideguidanceand
investments. Prepare and discuss with donors new rules for     support and the consulting support planned under the
investment programming.                                        project was never effectively procured by MLG.
         Prepare input and performance standards for local     Thisissuewasneverresolved,thusnosignificant
government services based on work under Program                work was ever undertaken on this component.
Management.                                                     Thematterbecamemootafterthedecisionto
         Initiate new rules for investment programming.       restructure the program. As noted above, the
         Initiate consultation on government distributional   Restructuring Plan was never implemented by MLG.
policy and priorities
CY 97
         Establish performance targets and subsidy policy
for services
         Establish inter-governmental transfer policy and
distribution formulae for investments.
         Provide indicative planning figures and operational
procedures to LG for investment planning
CY 98
         Establish performance targets and subsidy policy
for services.
         Establish inter-governmental transfer policy and
distribution formulae for investments.
         Provide indicative planning figures and operational



                                                            - 23 -

procedures to LG for investment planning.


Managerial and Technical Reform

LG Program Management & Training
CY 96
         Establish MTC                                         MTCwasneverestablished. Itwasagreedto
         Initiate design or implementation of standardized    postpone establishment until after work of LITC and FTC
accounting systems.                                            was consolidated in order not stretch MLG resources too
          Plan improved cost recovery.                        thin.
         Complete plans for new service delivery systems       Issuesbecamemootafterthedecisiontorestructure
including commercialization or privatization.                  the program. As noted above, the Restructuring Plan was
         Prepare training programs for new systems.           never implemented by MLG.
         Initiate new service delivery systems and training    Separateinitiativestakentoinitiatestandardmodified
programs.                                                      accrual accounting systems (Financial Management
         Establish monitoring programs                        Information System--FMIS) based on work begun under
                                                               the Bank-supported Technical Assistance and Training
                                                               Fund (TATF).
                                                                Also,initiativetakentoestablishstandardized
                                                               Revenue Management Information System (RMIS).
CY 97
         Review progress in implementing program.
         Local governments begin preparation of investment
programs based on new policy.
CY 98
         Review progress in implementing program.
         Local governments begin preparation of investment
programs based on new policy.
LG O&M Programming
CY 96
         Design O&M schedule and implementation                NoworkdonebecauseMLGdidnothavethecapacity
strategy. Initiate bids for contracted services, internal      to support.
restructuring for remainder.                                    Legal,institutionalandfinancialissuesdeemedof
         Prepare operating manuals. Initiate new systems.     higher priority given limited support capability.
Complete donor consultations on wider program.
         Initiate donor supported O&M program.
LG Public Information
CY 97
         Begin active dissemination of information on          Nosignificantworkdoneontheseissues,forreasons
planned service improvements. Set up feedback systems.         already stated above.
         Disseminate information on planned new systems        However,supportprovidetoMLGforthepreparation
including commercialization and privatization and              of a film and a brochure documenting MLG's policies,
anticipated effects.                                           programs and accomplishments.
         Disseminate information on performance standards.
         Review with communities initial impact of new
systems.
CY 98
         Feedback and consultation with communities on
service quality and reliability.
         Disseminate information on new revenue structure,
transfer policy and distribution formulae.
         Feedback and consultation with communities on
service quality and reliability.
         Disseminate information on new revenue structure,
transfer policy and distribution formulae.




                                                            - 24 -

Annex 1-A


Changing Objectives and Subjective Rankings


In this section, we attempt to develop a basis for assessing the relative importance of Objectives. This is done in
order to be able to arrive at a judgment on the overall success or otherwise of the project. We start with the relative
importance of component costs and then subjectively adjust these based on the relative importance of components
and subcomponents derived from the SAR, the files, and conversations with participants. The composition of costs
is shown in Table 1.4, which also shows how components and costs changed over time. For the purpose of this
analysis, the key comparison dates are at appraisal, and what we consider the period when force majeur came into
effect (after September 2000). The ICR team's subjective assessment of the relative importance of objectives is
presented in Table 1.5.

It will be seen that components and the relative importance of components and cost changed over time. In our
view, the relative importance of objectives also changed over time, in response to both progress, and the situation
on the ground. At appraisal, the reform objectives are judged to have been far more important than the related
component costs (40% vs. 18%), and the national component was dominant. By the time of the crisis, the relative
importance of the national reform component seems to have declined considerably (in response to implementation
realities) and the local reform component increased in importance. After September 2000, the national component
was de facto abandoned--both because of implementation lags and because it is no longer feasible. A parallel set
of changes occurred with respect to the infrastructure component and sub-components. The ranking of objectives
follow these changes. They are subjective, but the ICR team deems that this approach provides a reasonable basis
for decision--within a margin of error of plus or minus 10%.




                                                         - 25 -

Table 1.4 Relative Importance of Components by Cost

Project                                Relative Importance of Components by Cost
Component
                       Board Immed  Non-  Crisi  Crisis Board   Immedi   Non-             Crisis   Crisis
                       (May- . Post Crisi   s    (Aug   (May-   ate Post Crisis          (Oct 00-   (Aug
                        96)  Board  s      (Oct  02+)    96)    Board                    Aug 02)    02+)
                             (Aug-         00-                   (Aug-     (Sep 97-
                              96)    (Sep  Aug                    96)      Sep 00)
                                     97-   02)
                                     Sep
                                     00)

                                    US$m                              % of total Project Cost
Part A:
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and
Improvement
I. Rehabilitation and
Improvement            19.8   9.8    14.8  14.4   14.0   50%      25%       37%        36%        35%
II. Maintenance         6.6   6.6    6.6   6.1    6.1    17%      17%       17%        15%        15%
III. Neighborhood
Upgrading               4.5   4.5    4.5   4.5    4.2    11%      11%       11%        11%        11%

IV. Small Works               10.0   5.0   7.0    10.2            25%       13%        18%        26%

Sub-total              30.9   30.9   30.9  32.0   34.5  77%       77%       77%        80%        86%
Part B: Local
Government Reform
and Capacity
Building
I. TA and Capacity
Building for MLG
(National Reform
Program)                4.0   4.0    3.5   2.4    1.4    10%      10%        9%         6%         4%
II. TA and Capacity
Building for SMs
(Local Reform
Program)                3.1   3.1    2.6   2.6    1.9    8%       8%         7%         7%         5%

Sub-total               7.1   7.1    6.1   5.0    3.3   18%       18%       15%        13%         8%
Part C: Project
Management and
Incremental
Operating Expenses      2.0   2.0    2.0   2.0    1.2    5%       5%         5%         5%         3%
Sub-Total Parts A, B
& C                    40.0   40.0   39.0  39.0   39.0  100%     100%       98%        98%        98%
Part D. Bethlehem
2000                                 1.0   1.0    1.0                        3%         3%         3%

Total Cost             40.0   40.0   40.0  40.0   40.0  100%     100%      100%       100%        100%




                                                  - 26 -

Table 1.5 Subjective Assessment of Relative Importance of Objectives (Percentages)

 Project Component                                              Subjective Assessment of Relative Importance of
                                                                             Objectives (Percentages (%))
                                                           Board         Immediate Post      Non-Crisis          Crisis       Crisis
                                                           (May-             Board                            (Oct 00-Aug      (Aug
                                                            96)            (Aug-96)          (Sep 97-Sep          02)          02+)
                                                                                             00)

 Part A: Infrastructure Rehabilitation and                   60               60                 60                75           80
 Improvement

 Rehabilitation and Improvement Components                   60               35                 45                45           45
 (I, II & III)

 Small Works (IV)                                            -                25                 15                30           35

 Part B: Local Government Reform and                         40               40                 40                25           20
 Capacity Building

 I. TA and Capacity Building for MLG                         25               25                 15                5            -
 (National Reform Program)

 II. TA and Capacity Building for SMs (Local                 15               15                 25                20           20
 Reform Program

 Total                                                      100               100                100              100          100



(See Annex 1, Table 1.4 for a more detailed comparison of relative costs and relative importance of objectives and components over time.)




                                                                    - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 2.1: Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Project Component                                Original              Revised          Actual/Lates  Actual as    Actual as
                                                 Appraisal           Appraisal            t Estimate  Percent of   Percent of
                                                 Estimate             Estimate1            (US$ m)    Original      Revised
                                                  (US$ m)                                             Appraisal  Appraisal
                                                                                                      Estimate ( Revised (%)
                                                                                                         %)
Part A: Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and
Improvement
I. Rehabilitation and Improvement                   20.2                 17.5                14.0         69         80
II. Maintenance                                      6.7                  5.9                6.1          91         103
III. Neighborhood Upgrading                           4.6                 4.0                4.2          91         106
IV. Small Works                                                                              10.2
            Sub-total                               31.5                 27.3                34.5        110         126
Part B: Local Government
Reform and Capacity
Building
I.   TA and Capacity Building                        3.6                  3.6                1.4          39         39
for MLG (National Reform
Program)
II. TA and Capacity Building                         2.7                  2.7                1.9          70         70
for    SMs      (Local      Reform
Program)
            Sub-total                                6.3                  6.3                3.3          52         52
Part C: Project Management                           2.0                  1.7                1.2          60         69
and Incremental Operating
Expenses
     Sub-Total Parts A, B & C                       39.8                 35.4                39.0         98         110
Part D. Bethlehem 2000                                                                       1.0          na         Na
Total Baseline Cost                                 39.8                 35.4                40.0        101         113
Contingencies                                        5.2                  4.6                             na         Na
Total Project Costs                                 45.0                 40.0                40.0         89         100
Total Financing Required                            45.0                 40.0                 40          89         100

3Excludes US$5m Planned but not forthcoming from Govt. Thus, the revised project cost was US$40m




                                                                 - 28 -

Table 2.2-a: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(Appraisal Estimate (US$ million equivalent))

 Expenditure Category                     ICB          NCB     Other    NBF   Total
 1.       Civil Works                     3.3           21.4    2.7           27.4
 2.       Goods under Parts A, B & C                            1.4            1.4
 3.       Consultant Services,                                  11.0          11.0
 Training & Studies under Parts A, B
 & C
4.        Incremental Operating                                 0.2            0.2
Expenses under Parts A, B & C
 5.       Unallocated
 6.       Small Works under Part A
6(a) Small Works under Part Z
 7.       Goods under Part D
 8.       Consultant Services,
 Training & Studies under Part D
9.        Incremental Operating
Expenses under Part D
 10.      Total                           3.3           21.4    15.3           40.0
Note: IDA only


Table 2.2-b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

 Expenditure Category                     ICB          NCB     Other    NBF   Total
 1.       Civil Works                                   23.2    na             23.0
 2.       Goods under Parts A, B & C                    na      2.3            2.3
 3.       Consultant Services,                                  2.1            2.1
 Training & Studies under Parts A, B
 & C
4.        Incremental Operating                                 1.2            1.2
Expenses under Parts A, B & C
 5.       Unallocated
 6.       Small Works under Part A                              7.5            7.5
6(a) Small Works under Part Z                                   2.7            2.7
7.        Goods under Part D                                    0.1            0.1
 8.       Consultant Services,                                  0.7            0.7
 Training & Studies under Part D
9.        Incremental Operating                                 0.2            0.2
Expenses under Part D
 10.      Total                                         23.2    16.8           40.0
Note: IDA, June 03




                                                  - 29 -

Table 2.3: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate
Project                Appraisal Estimate1                        Latest Estimate                   Latest as Percentage of
Component                   (US$ million)                           (US$ million)                         Appraisal
                                                                                                              (%)
                  Bank      Govt      Cofin     Total    Bank       Govt      Cofin     Total    Bank   Govt    Cofin.  Total

Part A:
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation
and
Improvement
I.                 17.5      2.7                20.2      14.0                           14.0     80                      69
Rehabilitation
and
Improvement
II.                 5.9      0.8                 6.7      6.1                             6.1     103                     91
Maintenance
III.                4.0      0.6                 4.6      4.2                             4.2     106                     91
Neighborhood
Upgrading
IV. Small                                                 10.3                           10.2     na                      na
Works
    Sub-total A    27.3      4.2                31.5      34.5                           34.5     126                    110

Part B: Local
Government
Reform and
Capacity
Building
I. TA and           3.6                          3.6      1.4                             1.4     39                      39
Capacity
Building for
MLG
(National
Reform
Program)
II. TA and          2.7                          2.7      1.9                             1.9     60                      60
Capacity
Building Sub-
Program for
SMs (Local
Reform
Program)
    Sub-total B     6.3                          6.3      3.3                             3.3     52                      52

Part C:             1.7      0.3                 2.0      1.2                             1.2     69                      60
Project
Management
and
Incremental
Operating
Expenses
    Sub-Total      35.4      4.4                39.8      39.0                           39.0     110                     98
Parts A, B &
C
Part D.                                                   1.0                             1.0     na                      Na
Bethlehem
2000
Total Baseline     35.4      4.4                39.8      40.0                           40.0     113                    101
Cost



1 Includes US$5m planned but not forthcoming from Govt. Thus, the revised project cost was US$40m.




                                                               - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The on-going crisis made it difficult to re-estimate the economic rate of return (ERR) of the project for
two reasons: First, it proved very difficult to collect the necessary data on a timely basis, largely because
of travel restrictions. Vastly complicating the data collection problem was the spread of the 327
subprojects across some 280 localities in WBG. Second, some of the key the assumptions (including
travel) on which the original analysis was based are no longer valid. As noted elsewhere in this report,
the crisis resulted in the severe restrictions in the movement of people and goods due to roadblocks, and
the consequent sharp reduction in traffic, particularly on the regional roads. In addition, the crisis caused
severe economic dislocation, leading to sharp increases in unemployment and poverty, and a fall in
incomes. This in turn led to decrease in demand and ability to pay for municipal services. The net result,
for example, was a reduction in water consumption; a decrease in willingness to pay outstanding bills; a
consequent reduction in municipal revenues; and a likely decline in the changes in property values.
Thus, the economics of the project has been seriously compromised. Because of these factors and the
lack of reliable data, it was difficult to undertake a credible analysis. Thus, we only present a qualitative
review.

Assessment at Appraisal: At appraisal the opportunity cost of capital was estimated at 10 percent.
Economic rates of return (ERRs) were deemed quantifiable only for the project Infrastructure
Rehabilitation, US$35.6m or 79 percent of the total project costs. No estimates were attempted for the
capacity building or project monitoring components which accounted for the balance. Because, at the
time there was a huge list of subprojects to be evaluated--some ready but many others not--it was
deemed more appropriate to establish a methodology and a computer model for rapid evaluation rather
try to evaluate each and every subproject.           Accordingly, a hierarchy of filters (see Table 1) was
developed to guide subproject selection, along with the computer models. The primary filters were:

1.       Readiness for implementation
2.       Elimination of projects already being funded by other donors.
3.       Economic Rates of return 14%.
4.       Established institutional arrangements for operations and maintenance.
5.       Consistency with community priorities.

In order to test the system, the filters and the models were applied to the existing batches of projects and
a number of assessments made. A threshold economic rate of return (ERR) of 14 percent was chosen
as a practical yardstick for subproject acceptance, having regard to the variability of the supporting
subproject data. Allowances were made for subcategories within the main infrastructure categories.

At appraisal, only the first two years of subproject were ready for implementation, a number which was
adequate to enable a substantial beginning. The plan was that the implementing agencies would be
trained in the use of these filters and models for final project selection, including selection after appraisal.
The result of applying this methodology to subprojects is shown in Table 2. Out of a pool of some 196
subprojects valued at US$266m, 151or 75 percent valued at US$156m exceeded the 14 percent ERR
threshold; and 64 valued at US$67m were selected as a core set. Some 50-60 subprojects valued at
US$35.6m were finally selected from the core for financing under the project. Sensitivity analyses
showed the following:
       Roads: 98 subprojects costing US$108m acceptable; increasing average daily traffic by 10
        percent and increasing project costs by the same proportion would eliminate 2 subprojects, a 2
        percent reduction in each case.
       Water: 39 subprojects costing US$15.8m acceptable; increasing project costs by 10 percent
        would eliminate 2 subprojects, a 5 percent reduction; simultaneously reducing benefits by 10
        percent would eliminate 8 subprojects, a 20 percent reduction.
       Wastewater: 10 subprojects costing US$23.5m acceptable; increasing project costs by 20
        percent and increasing O&M costs by 5 percent would eliminate 2 subprojects, a 20 percent
        reduction in each case.
       Neighborhood Upgrading: 8 subprojects costing US$9.3m acceptable; reducing property values




                                                      - 31 -

         relative to comparable areas would reduce ERR to the 14 percent threshold; increasing
         investment costs by 10 percent would reduce the ERR to 15 percent.

Thus the water and wastewater subprojects were believed to be relatively sensitive to assumption
regarding costs and benefits, while the roads and upgrading subprojects were relatively robust.

Changes in Project Structure: As explained in Sections 3.3 and 3.4, at Board a decision was made to
support an emergency job creation program in response to severe unemployment pressures. This had
two effects. First, it meant introducing a US$5m program of small (less than US$100,000) labor intensive
subprojects, none of which had been anticipated or reviewed at appraisal. Second, it changed the
structure of the project. The urgency was such that the supervision team had to work quickly and closely
with the implementing agencies (mainly PECDAR and the municipalities, under MLG's overall guidance)
to identify, evaluate and prepare this program. Given the timeframe, the proposed very widespread
nature of the program, and huge variances in available data and local capacity, the ERR filter could not
be applied systematically. By and large, though, every effort was made to apply the other selection
criteria systematically, with MLG playing an adjudicating role in situations of conflict or ambiguity. This
seemed to have worked quite well, and satisfaction with the program was considerable. Over time, the
size of the job creation subcomponent grew to US$10.2m and came to dominate the program. The last
program adjustment was made in August 2002 when some US$2.7m was reallocated to help repair
damage experienced during the crisis.            These adjustments came at the expense of original
subcomponents, particular in roads and water and wastewater. In sum, the infrastructure component
started to change right from the beginning and continued to change as the team reacted to job creation
and damage repair demands. The impact of these changes is reflected in Table 3. Here it will be seen
that the total number of subprojects increased to 327, including some 266 small works. Thus job creation
and damage repair came to account for 80 percent of the total number of subprojects, and 30 percent of
the total value of the component--a very substantial change in the structure of the project.

Impact of the Crisis: Damage: As indicated elsewhere in this report, the crisis took a heavy toll on
infrastructure in WBG. However, this damage was concentrated in specific municipalities, and specific
areas within these municipalities. Damage to the Bank project itself was surprisingly light16. The most
severe damage occurred in three municipalities: Rafah (Gaza) and Nablus and Jenin (West Bank).
Together these accounted for about US$7.5m, or 20 percent of infrastructure component costs. Even
here though, the damage was concentrated in particular areas. For example, Rafah which experienced
some of the worst fighting suffered some US$0.25m in damages, or about 10 percent of their program.
Nablus, another flash point, suffered about some US$0.35m or about 15 percent of their program. Data
are not available for Jenin which is thought to have sustained the greatest damage, but it seems unlikely
that damage even here exceeded 50 percent of their infrastructure program. Overall, it seems likely that
damage did not exceed US$2-3m, or less than 10 percent of the component as a whole. This relatively
good fortune is largely explained by the widely spread nature of the infrastructure program and the above
noted concentration of hostilities in particular areas of particular cities. (See Table 4 for the distribution
of project costs.)

Socio-Economic: The main impact, then, was on social and economic activity, incomes, and the social,
economic and institutional fabric as a whole.         This impact is summarized below:         Beginning in
September, 2000. The information on the impact of the crisis provided below relies heavily on two World
Bank sources: "Fifteen Months--Intifada, Closures and Palestinain Economic Crisis", March 2002; and "
Two years of Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis", February, 14, 2003.

l   The economy has shrunk by half, with GNI losses exceeding US$5.4 billion, the equivalent of one
    whole year of wealth creation.
l   Lost investment opportunity stands at some US$3.2 billion.
l   Real private GDP (measured at factor cost) has declined by almost 30 percent; the private sector's
    contribution to the economy has declined from 88 percent in 2000 to 61 percent in 2002.
l   Raw physical damage now exceeds US$725 million.
l   The movement of people and goods is severely restricted both internally and between the




                                                    - 32 -

     Palestinians areas and Israel, because of a vast network of some 140 Israeli army check points and
     various blockages and blockades.
l    The number of Palestinians officially permitted to work in Israel has been halved, to some 30,000,
     with much lower levels at times of severe crises.
l    Some 172,000 jobs were lost in the private sector, about 51 percent of its pre-Intifada workforce.
l    Unemployment has grown from 10 percent of the labor force in the third quarter of 2002, and now
     stands at some 42 percent (53 percent if those not seeking work are included).
l    Some 60% of households have lost more than half of their income.
l    The numbers of poor have tripled to more than 2 million, about 60 percent of the population.
l    The poor have been getting even poorer, with average daily consumption slipping from US$1.47 to
     US1.32.
l    Food consumption has declined by 25-30 percent on a per capita basis.
l    The incidence of acute malnutrition among children has increased to some 13.3 percent in Gaza (on
     par with Zimbabwe and just behind Congo); in the West Bank it now stands at 4.3 percent, averaging
     9.3 percent overall.
l    Families have been forced to liquidate their saving, accumulate debt, and resort to family and other
     social networks as a means of coping.
l    Municipalities and village councils have lost almost half of their previous revenues and are thus
     barely able cope with maintenance and service delivery---leaving roads, waterlines and sewers
     un-repaired and streets strewn with garbage. The challenge to public health is obvious.
l    PA ministries and agencies have been badly shaken, and are operating far below previous levels--
     where they a operating at all.
The negative impact of the above on project ERRs can be imagined. Demand fell sharply, with obvious
impacts on service revenues, travel, and property values. At the same time costs increased significantly
due to restrictions in the movement of people and goods and the damage to infrastructure. As noted
above, we do not have the data to properly evaluate these impacts and hence do not attempt to do so.

Procedural Issues: As noted above, the plan was that the implementing agencies would be trained in
the use of the filters and models for final project selection, including subproject selection after appraisal.
Additional data was also supposed to have been collected by the agencies to further calibrate the
models. These plans were not put into effect. This seeming lapse was mainly due to two factors. The
first was that the rapid shift to job creation, necessitating quick appraisal of hundreds of small subprojects
made the original strategy unviable. In this case, the implementing agencies and the supervision team
focused on the qualitative criteria, and these seem to have been employed satisfactorily. The other
factor was that very early during implementation considerable tension developed with PECDAR, a key
implementing agency. This was due to the fact that MLG and the Bank decided to decentralize the
program away from them to the municipalities, villages councils and villages. This was done mainly for
solid, pragmatic reasons--to place responsibility and accountability closer to the work and to speed up
the preparation process. At the time PECDAR apparently had been seeking to monopolize infrastructure
project development and implementation in WBG, while MLG and Bank were trying to decentralize as
much as practicable, as matter of overall sector policy.


Summary: In summary, had there been no crisis it seems likely that the project would have achieved its
target 14 percent minimum ERR. This is so despite the change in the project's structure. Experience
elsewhere in WBG and other countries indicates that the small labor intensive maintenance subprojects
(which included, roads, water and sanitation, sidewalks, retaining walls and community buildings among
others) generally yield quite high rates of return. The maintenance component which was not evaluated
in detail but was known to yield high rates of return was only slightly reduced. The Urban upgrading
component remained intact. The value of the relatively robust roads component was reduced from 42 to
31 percent of the total, while the value of the more sensitive water and wastewater component was
reduced from 22 to 10 percent.




                                                     - 33 -

Table 1 Project Selection Filters

 Primary Filter                                                       Secondary Filters
 1. Readiness for implementation
2. Elimination of projects already being
     funded by other donors.
3. Economic Rates of return > 14%.
4. Established institutional                    Positive environmental impact.Consistency with sector
     arrangements for operations and            strategy.
     maintenance.
 5. Consistency with community                  Consistency with local authorities' priorities.Geographical
     priorities.                                equity.

Table 2 Number and Value of Subprojects and Benefits Derived, by Category
Project                   Number of Subprojects                Value of Subprojects (US$m)          Benefits
Category            In     Passing   For core  Selected   In      Passing     For core   Selected
                  Project Threshold Program     for     Project  Threshold    program      for
                  Pool                         Project   Pool                            Project


1. Rehabilitation
    Roads          110      98          28      15-20    118.0     108.0        24.8      15.2    Reductions
                                                                                                  in   vehicle
                                                                                                  operating
                                                                                                  costs and in
                                                                                                  travel time.
    Water &        82       49          32      10-15    138.7      39.3        33.2       7.7    Increased
    waste                                                                                         services;
    water                                                                                         property
                                                                                                  values;  re-
                                                                                                  duced    net-
                                                                                                  work losses.
2. Maintenance     na        na         na        20      na         na          na        7.5    Savings per
                                                                                                  km.       in
                                                                                                  present
                                                                                                  value terms
                                                                                                  on    annual
                                                                                                  capital
                                                                                                  expenditure.
3. Upgrading        4        4           4         4      9          9.3         9.3       5.2    Increases in
                                                                                                  property
                                                                                                  values due
                                                                                                  to improve-
                                                                                                  ments.
4. Small Works      -        -           -         -      -           -           -         -     Not      as-
                                                                                                  sessed

Total              196      151         64      50-60    266       156.6        67.3      35.6



Note:. Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.




Table 3      Originally Selected and Actual Number and Value of Subprojects by Category




                                                       - 34 -

 Project Category     Number of Subprojects  Value of Subprojects                  Percentages
                                                    (US$m)               Number of        Value of Subprojects
                                                                        Subprojects
                       Selected   Actual    Selected for  Actual  Selected for  Actual   Selected for  Actual
                     for Project             Project               Project                Project
                     (Appraisal)            (Appraisal)           (Appraisal)            (Appraisal)
 1. Rehabilitation
     Roads               15-20      17          15.2       10.5      25-30         7          42         31

     Water & waste       10-15       8          7.7        3.5       15-20         2          22         10
     water
             subtotal    25-35      35          22.9       13.9      40-50         9          64         41
 2. Maintenance           20        32          7.5        6.1       20-30         9          21         18

 3. Upgrading              4         4          5.2        4.2         10          1          15         12

             subtotal    50-60      61          35.6       24.3       100         19         100         70
 4. Small Works            -
     No.1                  -        167           -        5.3                    51           -         15
     No.2                  -        45            -        2.2          -         14           -         6
     No. 3                 -        54            -        2.7          -         17           -         8

             subtotal      -        266           -        10.2         -         81           -         30


 Total                   50-60      327         35.6       34.5       100         100        100        100



Notes: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.




                                                        - 35 -

Table 4Estimated Distribution of Project Costs by SM, PECDAR,
                       Region and Category, to March 2003

(a) US$m.

                              WestBank:CommittedBudgetMarch2003        Gaza:CommittedBudgetMrach2003    TotalComm.ToMarch2003

                                             SMs                                     SMs
                                                       Total   Total                       Total Total            Total Grand
 Component               PECDAR   Hebron Jenin Nablus   SMs   Budget PECDAR  Gaza Rafah    SMs   Budget PECDAR    SMs   Total

     A:   Rehabilitation
          and
          Improvement
     I-   Rehabilitation
          and
          Improvement
          Sub-Program      8.9     0.4    1.2    0.3     1.9   10.8    1.9    0.2    1.0   1.2    3.2    10.8     3.1    14.0
    II-   Maintenance
          Sub-Program              1.1    0.6    1.4     3.1   3.1     0.8    1.6    0.5   2.1    3.0     0.8     5.2    6.1
    III - Neighborhood
          Upgrading                                                           3.2    1.0   4.2    4.2             4.2    4.2


               subtotal    8.9     1.4    1.8    1.8     5.0   13.9    2.8    5.1    2.5   7.6    10.4   11.7     12.6   24.3
    IV-
          MicroProjects
               Micro
          Projects1        4.7                                 4.7     0.4    0.1          0.1    0.6     5.1     0.1    5.3

               Micro
          Projects2        0.7     0.2    0.1    0.2     0.5   1.2     0.5    0.4    0.1   0.5    1.0     1.2     1.0    2.2

               Micro
          Projects3        1.2     0.8    0.3    0.3     0.7   1.9     0.4    0.2    0.2   0.4    0.8     1.6     1.1    2.7

               subtotal    6.6     1.0    0.4    0.5     1.2   7.8     1.3    0.8    0.3   1.1    2.4     7.9     2.3    10.2

          TotalofPart
          A                15.5    2.4    2.2    2.3     6.2   21.7    4.1    5.9    2.8   8.7    12.8   19.6     14.9   34.5




                                                            - 36 -

(b) Percentages

                            WestBank:CommittedBudgetMarch2003         Gaza:CommittedBudgetMrach2003    TotalComm.ToMarch2003

                                           SMs                                      SMs
                                                      Total  Total                        Total  Total           Total Grand
Component               PECDAR  Hebron Jenin  Nablus  SMs    Budget PECDAR  Gaza   Rafah  SMs   Budget PECDAR    SMs   Total

    A:   Rehabilitation
         and
         Improvement
     I-  Rehabilitation
         and
         Improvement
         Sub-Program     57%    15%    54%     15%    31%     50%    47%     4%     36%   14%    25%    55%      21%    40%
   II -  Maintenance
         Sub-Program            44%    28%     62%    50%     14%    20%    28%     18%   25%    23%     4%      35%    18%
   III - Neighborhood
         Upgrading                                                          55%     35%   49%    33%             28%    12%


               subtotal  57%    59%    82%     76%    80%     64%    68%    87%    89%    88%    81%    60%      85%    70%
   IV-
         MicroProjects
              Micro
         Projects 1      30%                                  22%    11%     2%           1%      4%    26%      1%     15%
              Micro
         Projects 2       5%     8%     5%     9%      8%     6%     12%     7%     4%    6%      8%     6%      7%     6%
              Micro
         Projects3        8%    33%    14%     15%    12%     9%     10%     3%     7%    5%      6%     8%      8%     8%


               subtotal  43%    41%    18%     24%    20%     36%    32%    13%    11%    12%    19%    40%      15%    30%

         TotalofPart
         A               100%   100%   100%   100%   100%    100%    100%  100% 100% 100%        100%   100%     100%  100%




                                                           - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March & July 95

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Nov. 95 & Feb 96        10     Urban Planner (1); Urban
                                             Specialist (1); Fin. Analyst
                                             (1); Env. Spec. (1);
                                             Operations Officer (1); Mun.
                                             EGR (1);
                                             San. EGR(1);
                                             Specialty to be identified by
                                             K. Robotham for the
                                             following 3 mission
                                             members:     George Gattoni
                                             (1); Elisabeth Decitra (1);
                                             Robert Deschel(1)

              Apr. 96                   6    Urban Planner (1); Counsel(1);
                                             Procurement Advisor (1); Urban
                                             Specialist (1); Fin. Analyst (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer(1)

 Supervision

              06/13/1997                3    Sr. Urban Planner (1);                 S               S
                                              Operations Officer(2)
              12/01/1997                3    Sr. Urban Planner (1);                 S               S
                                             Operations Officer (2)
              06/16/1998                3    Sr. Urban Planner (1);                 S               S
                                             Operations Officer (2)
              06/01/2000                2    Team Leader (1): Project Officer       S               S
                                             (1)
              11/25/2000                3    Lead Urban Planner /TTL (1);           S               S
                                             Project Officer (2)
              11/03/2001                3    Project Officer (1); Lead Urban        S               S
                                             Planner (1); Project Officer/TTL
                                             (1)
              10/22/2002                1    Project Officer/TTL (1)                S               S
              1/8/2003                  1    Operations Officer (TTL)               S               S
              3/4/2003                  1    Operations Officer (TTL)               S               S
              4/30/2003                 1    Consultant (Procurement)               S               S

 ICR
              6/7/2003                  6     Operations Officer (TTL);             S               S
                                              Sr. Operations Officer;
                                              Information Officer;
                                              Consultant (Urban Planner);




                                              - 38 -

                                                    Consultant (Procurement
                                                    Specialist); Program
                                                    Assistant;
               11/3/2003                      4     Operations Officer (TTL)              S             S
                                                    Consultant (Urban Planner):
                                                    Urban Economist; Urban
                                                    Advisor



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    NA
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         NA                            258.6
  Supervision                                   NA                            731.3
  ICR                                           NA                             20.0
  Total                                         NA                          1009.9
NOTES: Data in SAP/BW do not provide breakdown between Identification/Preparation and
Appraisal/Negotiations.
            Actual/Latest Estimate in US$ is in direct costs (BB) and supervision costs exclude Trust Funds
of $15,000.




                                                   - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1.   Staff Appraisal Report and Memorandum of President
  2. Quarterly Project Reports, PECDAR
  3. Audit Reports, PECDAR
  4. MLG and SM Questionnaire response (full document)
  5. Correspondence with MLG re establishing Capacity Building Unit.
  6. TORs for Capacity Building Unit
  7. TORs for SM 3-Year Development Plans
  8. SM 3-Year Development Plans and diagnostic studies
  9. Restructuring Plan for National Reform Program
  10. New Local Government Laws and draft bylaws
  11. FMIS: original TOR, bid evaluation report, contract document, draft TOR for implementation
  12. RMIS: TOR, bid evaluation report, contract document, various progress report.
  13. ICRs: ERP-1, ERP-2, Gaza Water and Sanitation Project
  14. Supporting Notes: Implementation, Outputs and Achievement of Objectives




                                               - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner's Comments




                                      - 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

- 46 -

Additional Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

                              Minutes of Stakeholder Workshop, June 7, 2003

The MIDP I Stakeholder workshop was held on June 7, 2003 to evaluate the project objectives and
outcomes, and lessons learned.

The workshop was held at the Bank's office in Dahiat Al-Barid, with a video conference connection with
the office in Gaza. It was attended by officials from PECDAR, the Ministries of Local Government (MLG)
and Public Works (MPW), the Bethlehem 2000 Authority (B2000), and Mayors and community leaders
whose towns and villages have benefited from the project. (see list attached). Though it was planned that all
participants attend at the Dahiat Al-Barid office, due to travel restrictions, some representatives from MLG
(Gaza branch) and the Gaza communities could only join through the video conference connection. Other
representative from the MLG and communities in the West Bank were also prevented from leaving their
communities despite prior World Bank coordination with the Israeli authorities. Some even called the
meeting from the checkpoints to express their frustration at not being able to attend.

Opening remarks were made by Mr. Ibrahim Dajani, the Task Team Leader, welcoming the participants
and thanking them for their efforts to participate in the workshop. He stressed the Bank's commitment to
the West Bank and Gaza program, and to doing all that it could to identify the needs of local communities
and prepare the programs necessary to help satisfy these needs.

Dr. Hussein Araj, Deputy Minister of Local Government, started by thanking the World Bank for its
efforts in the West Bank and Gaza and, in particular, those related to the municipalities and village
councils. He emphasized the role of MLG in preparing policies and systems for the local government units
(LGUs) as well as directing and supervising the capacity building in these LGUs. In addition, he
highlighted the various issues which were addressed under MIDP I including the financial reforms and
investment plans which were targeted at the pilot municipalities. He indicated that the Ministry was now
engaged with the donor community through the Local Government Reform Process in identifying how the
local government sector could be improved to address people's needs. The Ministry is also discussing with
Ministry of Finance the transfer of property tax responsibility to MLG. He noted further that Dr. Atef
Alawneh, Deputy Minister of Finance (MOF) was now working towards taking a decision concerning the
transfer responsibility for the property tax from MOF to MLG.

Mr. Kingsley Robotham, consultant and former MIDP I task team leader, outlined the main objectives of
MIDP I, and how this project complemented earlier Bank projects (ERP I and II). He expressed the view
that, although the project may have been somewhat ambitious and 100% of objectives were definitely not
achieved, the Bank's broader objective was to help initiate a process of substantial reforms in this sector.
In his view, this objective had been met. Mr. Robotham also noted that it had not been easy for the
Palestinian Authority (PA) to undertake its responsibilities as specified in the project document because of
the considerably unstable environment. The PA was not even in a position to cofinance the project as
initially agreed, and this had resulted in a reduction in the total project costs from US$45 million to US$40
million and therefore to a reduced scope of work. He explained that the focus of the workshop should be to
on the lessons learned, and how these lessons can assist all stakeholders to undertake their responsibilities
more effectively in the future.

Dr. Hisham Shkoukani, PMO Director at PECDAR, outlined the achievement of the physical component of
MIDP. This was in terms of the number of LGUs who benefited from the Project, number of constructed



                                                     - 47 -

classrooms, several kilometers of roads, water and sewage networks constructed and square meters of
public buildings, sidewalks and retaining walls that were rehabilitated. But, most importantly, he pointed
out the number of temporary jobs created for unemployed workers as an originally unforeseen but very
critical outcome of the project. He also highlighted the distribution of funds between West Bank and Gaza
and between large and smaller communities.

Mr. Ihsan Sabobeh, Director of Roads Department at the Ministry of Local Government, described the
implementation of the US$1.0 million Italian Cofinancing component as a successful experience. This
included the implementation of 5 roads in communities surrounding Jerusalem including Biddo, Beit Surik
and Ar-Ram, and others including Betunia, Salfit and Halhoul. All of this was successfully completed
within a 10 month period.

Mr. Imad Nassar, the former infrastructure coordinator of B2000 Authority, briefly summarized the
outcome of the US$1 million that had been reallocated from MIDP I to B2000 to help prepare the
Bethlehem 2000 celebrations. This included the preparation of an Emergency Action Plan for Infrastructure
Rehabilitation. This was done through the procurement of consulting services together with the
establishment of a committee representing all sectors related to Infrastructure. The funds also helped
B2000 prepare the necessary plans and designs for the rehabilitation of the old city. They had helped
strengthen coordination with the local authorities in the region and with the ministries, assisted
decision-making, and facilitated the implementation of subprojects-- whether financed by the Bank or other
donors.

The floor was then given to representatives of the participating municipalities, who confirmed the benefits
received under the physical component of the Project and pointed to the positive impacts on their
communities. They also confirmed that the Bank's contributions had induced other donors to follow suite,
and to provide financial assistance to rehabilitate the local infrastructure and to create jobs. However, they
repeatedly stressed that the incursions of the Israeli army into their communities during the past 2.5 years
have caused signification damage to the infrastructure in particular to the road network, sidewalks and
electricity network. Further, they urged the Bank to provide additional assistance to help rebuild what has
been damaged and to take further steps to encourage other donors to make similar contributions. Some of
the difficulties, which they faced during implementation, include:

  1. Difficulties in importing construction materials and in movement of municipal officials
      especially during tight closures;
  2. The limited size of the funds allotted: Though some of the job creation projects were well
      planned and successfully implemented, more could have been achieved had the allocations
      been much larger (this is true particularly in communities with large, unemployed
      segments of the labor force);
  3. Unclear criteria in setting the allocations and project selection at PECDAR and MLG;
  4. Delays by PECDAR in making payments to contractors.

There was a consensus amongst the participants on the positive impact of the Physical component.
However, views on the Capacity Building component were mixed. The participating municipalities that had
conducted 3-year investment/development plans confirmed that this had been a very useful exercise, and the
outcome has helped them considerably in managing their very scarce resources and in communicating
better with donors. In addition, those who have participated in implementing the pilot revenue management
information systems (RMIS) thought it was a significant step towards improving their ability to manage
their finances. The fact that the RMIS had encountered delays was due in part to the consulting firm. The
latter failed to provide sufficient qualified persons to work with the municipalities to install software and


                                                      - 48 -

implement the transfer of data. However, this was rectified after follow-up supervision and review was
provided by the Bank.

Participants (from Gaza, Nablus and MLG) who were involved in reviewing the FMIS and the software
purchase decision, stated that it had been a very difficult decision to make, especially since they had very
little local experience in this particular area at the time. Even the local private sector had little expertise to
offer (and the difficulties of bringing in international experts at various junctures due to conflict
compounded this problem). At the workshop, there was no clear agreement on who was responsible for the
decision to purchase the FMIS software and for separating the software procurement from its
implementation. It was agreed that this issue needed more detailed review.

Dr. Araj, the Deputy Minister, confirmed that in 1996 the MLG had an ambitious vision for reform.
However, the shaky implementation of the Oslo Agreement together with a scarcity of qualified human
resources within MLG and the LGUs had a negative impact on the capacity building component. He also
stressed that the reform objectives could not be achieved over night. It was not simply a matter of
purchasing software, but rather involved a long learning process. Dr. Araj confirmed that at the time MLG
had little knowledge of LGUs requirements, but he believed that they lacked a strong representative body
and adequate leadership. In reviewing MIDP-I experience, he stated that he believed that although some of
the project's capacity building objectives were of a long term nature, in 1996 there had indeed been a need
to initiate the process of reform. Further, he indicated that through working on MIDP, MLG had managed
to raise some key issues within the Palestinian Legislative Council, in particular those relating to the Local
Government Law and the need to reform this sector as whole. As a result, some amendments to the law are
currently being prepared, and the 16 by-laws prepared under MIDP I had been approved.                Finally, Dr.
Araj indicated that the MIDP-I accounting unit was now the nucleus of the new (currently on-going) Bank
financed EMSRP. The latter will feature the establishment of the Municipal Fund. Thus, in his view,
although the national reform component of MIDP-I did not attain some of its stated objectives, it was not
without its own modest achievements. In fact, it provided the foundation for most of the subsequent reform
efforts in the sector.

CONCLUSION
The participants concluded that: 1) the objectives of the physical component had been successfully
achieved;     2) The national reform subcomponent was quite ambitious and did not attain its stated
objectives. However, it did lay the foundation for the further development of the sector and for discussions
with the Bank and other donors.




                                                       - 49 -

List of Participants:
World Bank, West Bank and Gaza Country Office, Ar-Ram Office


 Name                            Title                        Institution
 Dr. Husein A'raj                Deputy Minister              Ministry of Local Government
                                                              (MLG)
 Kamal Hamdan Hroub              Consultant                   MLG
 Dr. Hisham Shkoukani           PMO Director                  PECDAR
 Samer Kharouf                   Project Control Manager      PECDAR
 Issac K. Al Bitar              Director for Projects         Gaza Municipality
 David Tarazi                    Director for Supervision     Gaza Municipality
 Maher Hanbali                   City Engineer                Nablus Municipality
 Khaled A. Majed                 Deputy City Engineer         Nablus Municipality
 Salam Zagha                     Deputy Manager               Nablus Municipality
 Asem Arafat                     IT Operations Manager        Nablus Municipality
 Munjid Bailbleh                MIS Director                  MLG
 Ra'ed Anabtawi                  Procurement Officer          PECDAR
 Ihsan Sabobeh                   Road Director                Ministry of Public Works (PWA)
Imad Nassar                      Infrastructure Dept.         B2000 Authority
 Hani Kayed                      Director of Projects         MLG
 Munif Traish                    City Engineer                Al Bireh Municipality
 Abdel Fattah Mallah             Water Engineer               Jenin Municipality
 Fawzy Ahmad Awaise              Road Engineer                Jenin Municipality
 Kingsley Robotham               Consultant                   World Bank
 Ibrahim Dajani                  Task Manager                 World Bank
 Abdallah Awad                   IT Specialist                World Bank
 George Awwad                    Consultant                   World Bank
 Khalida Qutob                   Program Assistant            World Bank
 Rima Majaj                      Assistant                    World Bank




                                              - 50 -

World Bank, West Bank and Gaza Country Office, Gaza Office

Name                             Title                        Institution
Soheil Mosa                      Head of Project Dept.        Rafah Municipality
Dr. Ali Barhoum                  City Manager                 Rafah Municipality
Hamza Abu Warda                 Head of Technical Dept.       Rafah Municipality
Basem Shurrab                    Director of Tech. Dept.      Khan Younis Municipality
Saleem El Agha                  Mayor Assistant               Khan Younis Municipality
Ayed Zubud                       Head of Eng. Section         Zawaideh Municipality
Zeyad Abu Nada                  Projects Engineer             Zawaideh Municipality
Rabie Ali                        Head of Proj. Dept.          Jabalia Municipality
Mohamad Tayeb                    General Manager              Jabalia Municipality
Howidy Abu Howidy                Director of Computer Center  Gaza Municipality
Ali Abu Marasaa                 PMO Deputy Director           PECDAR
Ali Abu Zuhhar                  Office Manager                PECDAR
Hamdy El Sha'er                  Southern Area Manager        PECDAR
Ibtisam Abu Shammala             Projects Coordinator         Ministry of Finance
Majed El Bayya                  Task Manager                  World Bank
Huda M. Skaik                    Program Assistant            World Bank




                                              - 51 -

Additional Annex 10. Note on Cofinancing

The Governments of Italy and Greece contributed a total of $5.5 million (approximately US$3.5
million and US$2 million respectively). Both contributions focused on the rehabilitation of
infrastructure including water networks and internal/access roads.

The Italian Grant financed two components in the water and roads sectors. The water component,
implemented by the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA), achieved the rehabilitation and installation of
84.5 kilometers of water network in addition to the construction of a 300 cubic meter water tank
serving 9 communities with a population of 27,300. A number of subprojects faced considerable
delays especially during the past two years of crisis. This was primarily due to reduced access to
project sites due to imposed movement restrictions on labor movement. Coordination with all parties
concerned led to the successful completion of these subprojects. The roads component, implemented
by the Ministry of Public Works, achieved the rehabilitation of 16 kilometers of internal, main and
access roads in 6 communities with 100,000 in population. The subprojects were completed prior to
the crisis; however, other challenges arose in the roads component. The fluctuation in the exchange
rate between the Euro against the Dollar led to a shortage in funding. This is due to the fact that the
Grant was made in Euro and the contracts were signed in US$. As a result, the Ministry had to cover
the balance from its own budget.

The Grant from the Government of Greece also financed two components in the water and roads
sectors. The water component, implemented by Qalqilia and Beit Sahour municipalities via PECDAR,
achieved the rehabilitation and installation of 12.8 kilometers of water, wastewater and storm
drainage networks with beneficiaries estimated at 47,500. The roads component achieved 16.6 km of
rehabilitated roads, sidewalks and constructed retaining walls.

It is worth noting that both donors have been very responsive to the PA's emerging needs and to
challenges facing the projects. One particular example was related to reallocation of funds for
damage repair/job creation which was reviewed positively by the donors in timely fashion.

  Donor and Project                            Location         Final Cost           Outputs and Beneficiaries
                                                                (US$M)
  Italian Grant
 1.Rehabilitation of Main Road, Western        Betunya           174,773     2 km (4 lanes) rehabilitated
 Entrance                                                                    (population: 12,500)
 2.Rehabilitation of Internal Roads             Salfeet          135,365     4 km rehabilitated
                                                                             (population: 9,000)
 3.Rehabilitation of Main Road                 Al-Ram            207,651     3 km rehabilitated (population
                                                                             51,100)
 4.Reconstruction of link road            Biddu - Beit Sourik    150,009     2 km rehabilitated (population
                                                                             9,600)
 5.Rehabilitation of Main Road                 Halhoul           263,103     5 km rehabilitated
                                                                             (population: 20,000)
 Sub-Total Roads Component                                       930,901     13 KM of rehabilitated
                                                                             (population10,000)
 1. Construction of Water Main Line       Kufr Nemeh - Deir       51,021     1.1 km rehabilitated
                                                 Ibze'                       (population: 5,500)
 2. Construction of Water Internal Network   Kufr Nemeh          257,898     12.3 km rehabilitated
                                                                             (population: 3,500)
 3. Construction of Water Internal Network     Deir Ibze'        246,391     10.7 km rehabilitated
                                                                             (population: 2,000)
 4. Construction of Water Internal Network     Ein Arik          317,663     10 km rehabilitated
                                                                             (population: 1,600)




                                                  - 52 -

5. Construction of Water Internal Network  Al-Mughayyer      392,479  18.9 km rehabilitated
                                                                      (population: 2,500)
6. Construction of Water Main Line         Deir Es-Sudan -   271,585  9.7 km rehabilitated
                                               Ajjoul                 (population: 3,700)
7. Construction of Water Internal Network  Deir Es-Sudan     189,758  9.1 km rehabilitated
                                                                      (population: 2,200)
8. Construction of Water Internal Network      Ajjoul        212,467  7 km rehabilitated
                                                                      (population: 1,500)
9. Construction of Water Internal Network   Kfur Ni'meh      102,412  300 cubic meters constructed
+ Water Reservoir                                                     (population: 3,500)
10.       Construction of Water Internal        Salfit       83,017   0.5 km rehabilitated
Network                                                               (population: 9,000)
11.       Construction of Water Reservoir    Nisf Jbail      73,068   3.1 km rehabilitated
                                                                      (population: 600)
12.       Construction of Water Internal     Ein Senia       42,568   2 km rehabilitated
Network                                                               (population: 900)
13.       Fire Hydrants                     West Bank         3,500
14.       Purchase of a Vehicle for PWA,    West Bank        24,125
Projects Department
15.       Consulting Services                                126,000
16.       Water Meters                       Jerusalem       140,110
Sub-Total Water Component                                   2,534,062 84.5 km of rehabilitated
                                                                      water network and 300
                                                                      cubic meters of water
                                                                      storage tank (population
                                                                      27,300)
Total Italian Grant                                         3,464,963



Greek Grant
1.Milk Grotto Street                        Bethlehem        760,406  0.5 km rehabilitated
                                                                      (population: 10,000)
2.Internal Roads                              Qalqilia       648,162  9.7 km rehabilitated
                                                                      (population: 37,000)
3.Sewage Network of Nofal Area (Phase I,      Qalqilia       149,953  3.9 km rehabilitated
II, III)                                                              (population: 10,000)
4.Construct Steel Protection for              Qalqilia       50,000   2 km rehabilitated
Storm-Water                                                           (population: 37,000)
5.Western Region Water Network (Phase         Qalqilia       148,783  6.7 km rehabilitated
I, II, III)                                                           (population: 10,000)
6.Finishing of Storm Water Canal in           Qalqilia       40,864   0.2 km rehabilitated
Al-Wadi Street                                                        (population: 5,000)
7.Rehabilitation of Sidewalks (I, II)         Qalqilia       108,998  6 km rehabilitated
                                                                      (population: 10,000)
8.Rehabilitation of Internal Road,          Beit Sahour      136,432  0.4 km rehabilitated roads,
Retaining Walls, & Sidewalks                                          0.2 km constructed retaining
                                                                      walls and 0.4 km of
                                                                      sidewalks (population: 500)
Total Greek Grant                                           2,043,598   16.6 km of rehablitated roads, 12.8
                                                                        km of rehabilitated/constructed
                                                                        water/waste water networks
                                                                        (population 47,500)


                                                 - 53 -

- 54 -

Additional Annex 11. Note on Bethlehem 2000 Component

In December 1997, and upon the request from the Palestinian Authority, the MIDP I Credit
Agreement was amended to reflect the reallocation of US$1 million towards supporting the
preparation of an Emergency Action Plan for the Bethlehem 2000 Project. In addition, and in order
to jump-start the process, the reallocated funds provided immediate assistance to the newly
established Bethlehem 2000 Project Authority (the Authority). This included financing institutional
support (the establishment of its offices, recruitment of key staff, procurement of necessary
equipment and payments towards operational costs), the preparation of the B2000 Business Plan to
lay out the strategy and overall programming, the preparation of the marketing plan, the preparation
of the events plan and the preparation of the designs and tender documents of the identified High
Priority Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Cultural Preservation Projects. This collective product was
later presented at the Participants Conference which was hosted jointly by the European
Commission , UNDP, UNESCO and the World Bank in Brussels on May 11-12, 1998. The
Conference aimed at presenting the Bethlehem 2000 Project to the global community, thus
providing an opportunity for donor countries to assess its merits and to consider financial assistance.
The Authority succeeded in presenting the Project to the international community and conveyed the
serious intentions and effort behind the Project. The outcome was a mobilization of US$51 million in
grants and a US$25 million IDA-terms Credit from the Bank.

All in all, and according to the Authority, the Bank's support starting from the highest levels --
President Wolfensohn, the Country Director and the task team -- were of utmost importance in
mobilizing necessary financing, as well as preparation and implementation of the B2000 Action
Plan.    The financial and technical support of the Bank established a common, coordinated
framework for reconstruction and festivities preparations, in addition to helping trigger other donor
cofinancing. The result was clear. A world-class performance televised to a world audience from
Bethlehem's Manger Square.




                                                   - 55 -

Additional Annex 12. Footnotes

      1. See project ICRs, respectively dated June 25, 1999 and December 22, 1999.
      2.  SAR., p6,
      3. The impact of events since the beginning of the Intifada has been documented in two World
         Bank publications : "Fifteen Months-Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis",
         March 2002: and "Two years of Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis",
         February 14, 2003
      4. MIDP, Memorandum of the President (MOP), p2.
      5. SAR, p6.
      6. Costs and percentages quoted in this section and below are based on IDA's US$40m share
         only.
      7. It was agreed with the Ministry of Local Government at appraisal to include a mix of strong
         and weak municipalities representing both West Bank and Gaza. Nablus, Jenin and Hebron
         were selected in the West Bank, and Gaza City and Rafah in the Gaza Strip.
      8.  See Amendment Letter dated August 5, 1996.
      9.  Referred to in the text and tables as the "adjusted" or "revised" original cost and or budget.
     10.  See Amendment Letter dated Nov. 20, 1997.
     11. The program was part of two major Bank-supported efforts (one focusing on central
         government and the other on local government). Both were supposed to transform public
         accounting systems in WBG. The systems designs were prepared by Arthur Andersen,
         which had been engaged under the Technical Assistance Trust Fund, jointly administered by
         PECDAR and the World Bank. While neither program was fully implemented, significant
         progress was made and operationalization achieved at selected municipalities supported
         under MIDP I.
     12. The cost and percentages shown in this section are based on final estimates as of June
         2003. However, the priority of related objectives is estimated at September 2000, i.e. the
         beginning of the force majeur period.
     13. The $40m project cost is referred to here as the revised project cost/budget.
     14. Bank strategy was summarized in a note to the Board entitled "West Bank and Gaza - The
         World Bank's Response to the Current Economic Crisis: An Interim Strategy", dated April
         26, 1996.
     15. It drew particularly on comparable reform and decentralization work in Uganda and in the
         District of Columbia (US).
     16. This assessment is based on recent data supplied by two of the three worst affected
         municipalities, discussions with the others, and observations in the field.




                                                 - 56 -

- 57 -

