Document of
PILE copy                   The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  P-2115-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
VOJVODJANSKA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 22, 1977
This document has a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                    =            Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                             =            Din, 18.00
Din, 1                                        US$0,0555
Din. 1,000                       =            US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                   -            US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973, The
currency equivalents given above are as of December 31, 1976.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLO SARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                      -     Basic Organization   of Associated Labor
GDP                       -     Gross Domestic Product
GMP                       -     Gross Material Product
ICB                       -     International competitve bidding
Kosovo                    -     Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
LCB                       -     Local competitive bidding
LDR                       -     Less-Developed Region (of Yugoslavia)
PB(s)                     -     Participating Bank(s)
Provinces                 -     Socialist Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo
and Vojvodina
SDK                       -     Social Accounting Service
SFRY                      -     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
the Plan                  -     Agricultural Development or 1973 "Green Plan"
the Unit                  -     Project Operations Department (within
Vojvodjanska Banka)
VB                        -     Vojvodjanska Banka



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA: SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Vojvodjanska Banka (VB).
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:              US$75.0 million, equivalent, in various currencies.
Loan Distribution:   One Participating Bank (PB), including VB, in each
Republic and Province, as follows:
US$ Million
Croatia:  Udruzena Banka Zagreb                    10.7
Serbia:  Beogradska Banka                          12.8
Slovenia:  Ljubljanska Banka                        3.2
Vojvodina:  Vojvodjanska Banka                     10.8
Kosovo:  Kosovska Banka Pristina                   11.3
Macedonia:   Stopanska Banka Skopje                 9.0
Montenegro:   Investiciona Banka Titograd           4.5
Bosnia-Herzegovina:   Privredna Banka
Sarajevo                     12.7
75.0
Beneficiaries:       The proposed project would generate about 10,200 new
permanent employment opportunities and reduce under-
employment for about 16,800 farmers.   An additional
40,000 farmers are expected to benefit from access to
agro-industrial facilities constructed under the project.
About 60 percent of project beneficiaries will include
farmers in the rural target group.
Terms:              Amortization in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at 8.2 percent.
Project              The project would provide funds during the three-year
Description:        period (1977-80) to finance investments in fruit and
vegetable growing, and livestock development in the
individual farmer sector, and cold storage, grain drying
facilities, fruit and vegetable processing plants, dairy
and milk collection facilities, and meat and broiler
processing plants in the social sector. The less-
developed Republics and Province would receive half of
the loan which is much larger than their share of the
national agricultural product. 57 percent of the proposed
loan would be allocated to the individual farmers, and a
significant part of that percentage would reach the poorer
farmers throughout the country.
This docurmen has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Relending Terms:    VB would channel the loan proceeds to a PB in each
Republic and Province at the Bank's prevailing rate (8.2
percent) with a repayment period of 15 years, including
3 years of grace. VB would receive a commission of one
percent on disbursements. VB would implement directly
the proposed project investment in Vojvodina. The
interest rate on Bank loan proceeds would be at 11 per-
cent, while minimum rates on local funds would be 5 and
6 percent, respectively, for individual farmers and
social sector enterprises.
Estimated Cost:                                       ----- US$ Million -----
Local   Foreign   Total
Primary Production
Vegetable                          11.0      4.0     15.0
Fruit                              20.0      7.0     27.0
Land Development                    2.0      2.0      4.0
Livestock                          54.0     21.0     75.0
Sub-total                        87.0     34.0    121.0
Agro-indus tries
Cold Stores and Packing Lines       6.0      4.0     10.0
Fruit and Vegetable Processing
Plants                            8.0      5.0     13.0
Milk Processing Plants             12.0     11.0      23.0
Meat Processing Plants              2.0      1.0       3.0
Broiler Production and
Processing Plants                 2.0      2.0      4.0
Winery                              3.0      2.0      5.0
Grain Driers                        3.0      1.0      4.0
Sub-total                        36.0     26.0     62.0
Contingency Allowances
Physical (5.0 percent)              6.0      3.0      9.0
Price (21.4 percent)               27.0     12.0     39.0
Sub-total                        33.0     15.0     48.0
Total Project Cost                156.0     75.0    231.0
Financing Plan:                                   US$           Percent of
Sources                   Millions        Total Financing
IBRD                         75.0                32
Participating Banks         106.0                46
Sub-borrowers                50.0                22
231.0               100



Estimated           Calendar                          Amount (US$'000)
Disbursements:       Year                     Annual               Cumulative
1978                      7,000                 7,000
1979                    27,000                 34,000
1980                    34,500                 68,500
1981                      6,500                75,000
Economic Rate of
Return:             22 percent.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1537a-YU, dated June 13, 1977
Agricultural Credit and Agro-Industries Division
Projects Department
EMENA Region






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO VOJVODJANSKA BANKA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Vojvodjanska Banka (VB), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of US$75.0 million to help finance
a second agricultural credit project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum. US$64.2
million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to seven other participat-
ing banks for 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 per-
cent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was diptributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A special Economic Mission to review the new development plan and
the new planning system visited Yugoslavia in October and November 1976, and
its report is under preparation. Some of the material gathered by the Mission
has been utilized for updating the information contained in the subsequent
paragraphs of this report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total GDP at constant prices having increased by an average
rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In 1975,
per capita GNP was about US$1,480 (World Bank Atlas methodology). This
impressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental structural
changes in the economy which has moved towards a modern industry/service
oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from an
average rate of 1.6 percent for the less devploped Republics and Provinces
to 0.7 percent for the developed ones. The structural changes in the economy
permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force from agriculture to industry
and services. Despite this, however, by 1975, 37 percent of the employed
1/   Part I of this report is identical to that in the Report and Recommenda-
tion of the President fpr a Second Power Transmission Project (Report No.
P-2018a-YU) dated June 1, 1977.



resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and forestry, mostly
on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted for 23 percent,
and other sectors for 40 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest technologically identifiable unit of
operation) in every sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most
important social and policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation
down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the
management and financial responsibility for social activities (health, educa-
tion, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to Communities
of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers
and users of the specific services). Responsibility for certain economic
activities affecting large segments of the society (like communal services,
power production, highways and water management) can be--and progressively
is--similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
public institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has
the leading role in economic and social development; it accounts for 85 percent
of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5 person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agri-
cultural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--has emerged as one of the most impor-
tant development issues of the country. Four regions can be distinguished
by stage of development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high income region
with almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia, Croatia
and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income regions,
ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average; however, even within
these regions pockets of underdevelopment persist. The Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita income between 67 to
75 percent of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated Less Developed Regions (LDRs). The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average income of only 33 percent of the
national average (about US$490.0 equivalent), is at the bottom of the spread.
These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to intra-regional
disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the spread between communes can
extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor
rural communes within the LDRs which largely determines the disparity between



- 3 -
the regions. The rate of economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only
slightly below the average for Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population
growth (1.6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent in the more developed regions)
the income disparity has tended to widen significantly during the last two
decades. In order to reverse this trend and to accelerate economic growth
and social development in the LDRs, mechanisms have been instituted for
sizeable transfers of financial resources. In 1975, net credits on highly
favorable terms (containing a grant element of around 50 percent) were made
available through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of Less
Developed Regions to the LDRs in the amount of US$370 million, equivalent
to about 20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. An addi-
tional US$197 million were transferred as budgetary grants for social services.
The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in line with
the growth in total GDP.
8.        Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is estimated
to be only around 4 percent of the resident labor force in 1975. However,
this low rate conceals three important aspects of the employment problem.
First, an estimated 800,000 out of a total labor force of around 9 million
(in 1974) has assumed temporary employment abroad. Second, there is some
evidence of growing regional and occupational imbalances, due to low inter-
regional mobility of labor and to unmatched skill requirements in a fast
changing economy. Third, severe underemployment persists in the private
agricultural sector.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1974, Yugoslavia recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent and 4 percent in 1973 and 1972, respec-
tively. Industry was the leading sector with an estimated growth rate of 11
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of tourism)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy. Investment outlays grew in nominal terms by
almost 40 percent (9 percent in real terms) and total consumption expenditures
by about 41 percent (13 percent in real terms). The resulting rapid increase
in total demand for goods and services was reflected both in the rise of em-
ployment and of imports--both in nominal and real terms--and domestic prices.
The gain in total employment amounted to about 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded
for the first time the natural increase of the labor force. Industrial pro-
ducer prices rose by almost 30 percent while the cost of living rose less
rapidly by some 21 percent. Since fiscal policy leaves, for institutional
reasons, little room for demand management, the major response to the infla-
tionary pressures was in terms of monetary policy and direct controls through
prices and income policy, including recent legislation placing greater con-
trol on investment expenditures. After an expansionary phase during -1972 and
1973, the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal
increase of social product of about 36 percent. The shift to a large deficit
in the balance of payments in 1974 also contributed to the increased effec-
tiveness of the monetary policy.



- 4 -
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by
about 11 percent). The recession in Western Europe led to a sharp decline in
exports to that area. The traditionally large surplus for invisibles (mostly
from workers' remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate for the
large trade deficit, and the country recorded a current account deficit in
excess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million in
1973. In response to the circumstances, the import regime has been gradually
tightened since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods and
some capital and intermediate goods. In addition, the National Bank raised
the intervention point in the foreign exchange market, in effect devaluing
the dinar by about 7 percent against the currencies of Yugoslavia's major
trading partners. The large current account deficit led to some loss of
foreign exchange reserves; the official reserves fell by US$438 million in
1974 (compared to a gain of US$632 million in 1973). In addition, net for-
eign borrowing, which averaged US$390 million during 1971-73, increased to
around US$650 million in 1974. Commercial import credits from suppliers
and credits from financial institutions continued to be the major sources
of foreign capital. Long-term funds related to financing of development are
being made available mainly by the IBRD and some bilateral sources (particu-
larly the US Export-Import Bank and Federal Republic of Germany). Yugoslavia
has also been one of the beneficiaries of the IMF's Special Oil Facility.
Yugoslavia's medium- and long-term external debt outstanding as of December 31,
1975 is estimated at US$5,800 million (disbursed only). Debt service payments
amounted to about 16.5 percent of foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances) in 1974 and 17.7 in 1975.
11.       In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, due
mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnating
exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and stagnating consumption;
economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth stimulus
during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974 and ex-
tended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year; the rate
of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent for 1974
to 11 percent during 1975, and the index of real personal receipts slightly
declined for the whole of the year.    The good harvest in 1974 had a favor-
able impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely
affected by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil
producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to
expand rapidly in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp
decline in exports to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity
exports declined by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and re-
ceipts from tourism have increased marginally. However, a larger contraction
of imports and an improvement in the terms of trade led to a slight decline
in the current account deficit to $1,032 million.



-5-
Estimates for 1976 and Prospects for 1977
12.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. On both counts, these objectives are successfully being
met. Due to the reduction of imports--with sizeable stocks of imported inter-
mediate goods being gradually depleted--and to a lesser extent the increase of
exports, a small current account surplus of US$150 million is estimated for
the year as a whole. The rate of inflation declined further, with the cumula-
tive index of industrial producer prices dropping to 7 percent. However,
the measures and policies leading to this improvement simultaneously halted
economic growth during the first half of 1976. By the middle of the year,
industrial production started to expand again, mainly as a result of an
expansion of investment and exports, and an increase of money supply during
the first part of the year. This upsurge, in conjunction with the favorable
crop of 1976, is expected to lead to a real increase of GDP by about 4 percent
for the year as a whole. For 1977, Yugoslav authorities expect the growth
rate to rise to 5.5 percent, accompanied, however, by a reappearance of a
moderate current account defirit and a moderate resurgence of the rate of
inflation. Employment growth, estimated at 3 to 3.5 percent for 1976 is
expected to continue at about the same rate through 1977.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
13.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as rapid
inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal of
development objectives. In the light of the recent shift of relative prices
in favor of raw materials, more emphasis will be given to the development of
Yugoslavia's own natural resources. In this connection, the development of
the energy sector is given the highest priority. It focuses on electric
power, where the generating capacity is falling critically short of the
rapidly rising power requirements of the expanding economy. The development
of the power sector will be based primarily on the largely unutilized hydro-
power potential and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority
activities are ferrous metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy
(notably lead, zinc, copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically
advanced production equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining,
agriculture and food processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose
works, and housing and basic construction material.
14.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have a crucial role.



-6-
15.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is pro-
posed, comparing with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and an expected realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment,
the average planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual
increments exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing
margins. This would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objec-
tives: the reduction of the number of temporary migrants abroad, and an
increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social sector. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material,
semi-finished products and consumer goods on the import side, and an increased
share for agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side.
Workers' remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising
tourism receipts are expected to compensate for the expected declining impor-
tance of workers' remittances.
16.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the LDRs in the forms of loans at concessionary terms for economic invest-
ment and of budgetary grants for social development will be continued and
probably increased as a proportion of total GDP. Since most of the natural
resources of the country, including hydropower, are to be found in the LDRs,
these regions will also benefit from the increased emphasis on the develop-
ment of power and basic industries which will be financed largely through
direct financial contributions from the consuming regions.
17.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies (Communal, Republican and Provincial, and
Federal) of the socio-political communities. Subsequently, the planning
process starts at the bottom with individual enterprises and Communities of
Interest setting out expectations and targets. The planning process then
proceeds through successive and partially overlapping stages of horizontal
adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily at eliminating gross
duplications), vertical adjustments between closely interdependent sectors and
branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of magnitudes of production,
conceptually within an input/output framework), and regional adjustments
between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal and vertical con-
solidation). The socio-political communities participate in this process by
ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and constraints, and by
resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct participants. The
evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their totality constitute
the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the form of "social
contracts" or "self-management agreements" whichiare legally binding for the
whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of major deviations occur-
ring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan differs from the



-7-
previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments for implemen-
tation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
18.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Communities, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is estimated to have risen in 1976 (around 18 percent), but it is
expected to decline slightly in the subsequent years. Taking into account
Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the past to control
balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective growth of production
and structural improvement of the balance of trade, Yugoslavia remains credit-
worthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.       The Bank has made 44 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,553
million. Of this amount, approximately 44 percent (US$676.4 million) has
been for 15 loans for the transportation sector--8 for highways totalling
US$276.0 million, 4 for railways totalling US$248.0 million, US$59.4 million
for a natural gas pipeline, US$49.0 million for an oil pipeline, and US$44.0
million for a port project. Bank lending has generally concentrated on infra-
structure including, in addition to the transportation loans, power (four
loans totalling US$215.0 million), telecommunications (one loan for US$40.0
million), US$51.0 million for two water supply and sewerage projects and five
multipurpose projects totalling US$177.0 million which included substantial
agricultural components for irrigation and agricultural credit. Four loans
totalling US$131.0 million have been made for agriculture and agro-industries.
Ten loans have also been made for industry and two for tourism. The first
Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In addition,
IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enterprises totalling about US$130.0
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of May 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
1/   Part II of this report is substantially identical to that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President for a Second Power Transmission
Project (Report No. P-2018a-YU) dated June 1, 1977.



- 8 -
20.       The basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues
to be dictated by the following interrelated, yet distinct objectives:
(a) support of the Yugoslav efforts to accelerate development in
the Less Developed Regions (LDRs);
(b) promotion of agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit;
(c) encouragement of structural reforms in the major secto.s
through improved coordination, institution-building and
technical assistance;
(d) help in the identifying and financing of gaps in basic
infrastructure--particularly transport and energy; and
(e) alleviation of critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
These objectives have guided Bank lending in previous years. It is obvious
that each Bank operation cannot address all these objectives which are not
always fully compatible. There has, however, been an evolving change in the
relative weights of these objectives with particular emphasis being directed
towards the support for the lesser developed regions and the agricultural
sector.
21.       The Bank's emphasis on aiding the accelerated development of the LDRs
is fully in accord with the Federal Government's wishes and avowed policy to
reverse the widening gap between the richest and the poorest regions (Slovenia
and Kosovo, respectively). Over the past two years, more than two-thirds of
our lending has been to the lesser developed regions, and we hope to maintain
a comparable pattern of distribution over the medium-term, though there will
undoubtedly be year to year fluctuations. A loan of US$54.0 million (Loan No.
1360-YU) for the Metohija M1ultipurpose Project in Kosovo was approved by the
Executive Directors on January 11, 1977. Loans of US$24.U and US$26.0 million
for agriculture and agro-industries projects in Macedonlia and o1ontenegro were
approved by the Board in February, and a loan of US$56.0 million for an Eighth
Highway Project, primarily designed to benefit the economic development and
integration of lesser developed regions, was approved March 15, 1977. Over
the next two years, operations envisaged for LDRs include the proposed loan for
agricultural credit, a third loan for industrial credit, and three loans for
irrigation, water supply and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agri-
culture development. During the same period, highway and railway projects, as
well as the recently approved Second Power Transmission Project, will both
assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy
sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities



- 9 -
to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical, management and
marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
22.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation, should enable the Bank to
achieve a high level of participation in the development of these regions.
23.       The Bank supported and assisted in the formulation of the 1973
"Green Plan" which, in addition to providing a comprehensive framework for
promoting agricultural development, recognized and encouraged the role of the
individual, low-income sector which holds almost 85 percent of the cultivated
land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population. It is now generally
appreciated that the individual farmer sector can--given sufficient support
in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and basic infrastructural
facilities--generate significant increases in production. The loans for the
Ibar Mfultipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose
Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries
Projects (Loans Nos. 894-YU and 1371-YU) in Macedonia and the First Agricul-
tural Credit Project (Loan No. 1129-YU) have given special attention to the
needs of the individual farmer sector. The proposed second project for agri-
cultural credit, as well as forthcoming projects for irrigation, will support
agriculture development in general and in particular the individual farmer
sector.
24.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, compounds the inherent complexities of coherent
sector planning which are evident in any economy. This is of particular
relevance to the transport and energy sectors. The Bank's significant in-
volvement in these sectors, both in terms of money and technical assistance,
has helped to highlight the critical need for, and to evolve mechanisms to
further countrywide coordination of, sectoral investment programs and policies.
The limited, yet discernible progress made has been supported by our lending
for electric power transmission, railways and highways. Our continuing in-
volvement in the transport and power sectors, though the funds we can make
available are limited, will, we hope, have further beneficial impact on
fostering coordination. For instance, a recently approved eighth highway
project (Loan No. 1377-YU) provides for studies of road-user charges and rail-
way costs which the Government and ourselves believe essential for fostering
inter-modal coordination and devising a policy framework for the transport
sector, and the very recently approved Second Power Transmission Project, an
extension of the interconnected transmission system partly financed by the
Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will enable the transfer of power throughout
the country and thereby foster power exchange coordination among all republics/
provinces.
25.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to attain its growth targets. While the Yugoslavs are
making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western financial



- 10 -
markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there is
presently no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank,
therefore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the fore-
seeable future. In our financing of infrastructure projects, we propose to
devote particular attention to those which have clear possibilities of attract-
ing co-financing and where our participation, albeit limited, is likely to
induce the entry of financing partners.
26.       The level of Bank lending has remained constant, averaging about
US$218 million annually during the period FY74-77. Although this represents
only a small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to
about one-fifth of its total public debt outstanding and disbursed. The out-
standing debt to the Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from its
current level of less than 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt.
Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in
1974 and is projected to increase to about 6 percent in 1980.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Background
27.       The agriculture sector, which occupied about one-third of the pop-
ulation and accounted for around 15 percent of the GMP 1/ in 1975, has grown
at an average annual rate of about three percent during the period 1970-75.
Average per capita income in agriculture amounted to about 41 percent of that
in the rest of the economy in 1975, a disparity stemming essentially from
the pockets of rural poverty which are particularly concentrated in the LDRs
(see para 7 of this Report). Anxious to tackle this disparity as well as to
utilize better the potential of the individual sector, the country has deter-
mined that, while it will continue to provide capital and technology to the
social sector as hitherto, increasing emphasis must be given to the indi-
vidual farmer. Greater weight is therefore being placed upon accelerating
agricultural development generally (the new national plan--1976-80--projects
an increase in the growth rate for the agriculture sector to four percent
annually over the period) and upon strengthening the individual farmer through
cooperation with the social sector in particular.
28.       The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently many and varied.
Fifty-eight percent of the national territory is recorded as agricultural
1/   GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 11 -
land, two-thirds of which is arable and the rest pasture. The soil is better
than in. other southern European countries, especially in the fertile plain
in the northeast which includes Vojvodina and which, while containing only
one-sixth of the country's total area, encloses nearly one-third of the
arable land and produces more than half of the country's wheat and maize and
three-quarters of the sugar beet. In the hilly areas covering much of Serbia,
Slovenia and Bosnia, a mixed farm pattern prevails. The mountainous regions
to the west and south contain extensive upland pastures suited to livestock
rearing. Along the Adriatic coast, in the Mediterranean climatic zone, vine-
yards and olive and citrus groves flourish while further south, in Macedonia,
sub-tropical crops such as tobacco, cotton and rice are grown.
Institutional Setting
29.       An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and individual farmer sectors. The social sector, which grew out of
the postwar collectivization, is made up of a number of different institutions
including kombinats (integrated factory farms), cooperatives and research in-
stitutions; this sector accounts for about one-third of the total agricultural
output, controls 15 percent of agricultural land, and employs about 5 percent
of agricultural manpower. In contrast, the individual farmer sector, which
consists essentially of privately held family plots not exceeding 10 ha of
arable land and which controls 85 percent of the cultivated land and employs
about 95 percent of agricultural manpower, is handicapped not only by frag-
mented, but by poor quality land as well, and has been neglected in terms of
provision of basic infrastructure, financing and technology. For the most
part, these two sectors are inherently complementary rather than competitive.
Labor intensive crops, such as vegetables and tobacco, are almost exclusively
produced in the individual sector which in addition has 97 percent of the
sheep and 95 percent of cattle herds. The social sector provides most input
and extension services as well as cultivation, harvesting, marketing and
credit facilities. Cooperation which exists between the two sectors there-
fore takes the form of trade in input and output and the contracting of joint
production.
30.       During the past decade, a significant amount of capital and tech-
nology has been directed to the social sector, and it is now generally recog-
nized that additional investment in this sector for modernization and expan-
sion would yield marginal increases in productivity and production. A major,
new effort is now being directed, therefore, towards the individual farmer
sector where, given the current low levels of productivity and production, a
major expansion of output could be expected. The Government has accordingly
launched programs which embrace the individual sector and give it access to
infrastructure facil-ities, credit, improved technology through extension serv-
ices and cooperation with the social sector, and also to marketing services.
31.       Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy rests with the
Republics and Provinces, all of which are represented on the Federal Committee
for Agriculture, the President of which is a member of the Federal Executive
Council with the rank of Minister. The Committee sets the principles for de-
velopment, establishes major policies, links the agricultural sector with the



- 12 -
overall national development plan and is responsible for coordination of
agrarian policy, legislation and prices and exports. There is also at the
Federal level the Federal Chamber of Economy, within which there is a unit
dealing with the agricultural sector which includes specialized committees.
The responsibilities of these committees are to promote coordination in such
specialized areas as research, planning and finance. The Federal Chamber of
Economy attempts to ensure overall coordination within the economy. Chambers
of Economy also exist at the Republican/Provincial levels; like the Federal
Chamber of Economy, they comprise social sector enterprises and, as such, seek
to achieve maximum self-management coordination among and serve as intermedia-
ries between enterprises in the negotiation of "social contracts" within their
respective Republics/Provinces. They also examine all legislation to be placed
before the respective assemblies, forecast markets, provide economic services
and scrutinize plans of enterprises. At the local level, the commune is the
link between the community and enterprises, and seeks to reconcile the various
interests of the enterprises and the community.
32.       Due to decentralized decision making, all functions associated with
policy implementation rest with autonomous self-governing organizations, such
as kombinats and cooperatives, which implement production and investment plans.
Even though it accounts for only about 15 percent of total cultivated land,
the social sector is the primary medium for policy implementation regarding
production and investments, since it has a virtual monopoly of technicians,
management skills and production processing and marketing activities outside
the small-scale sector.
The Development Plan
33.       As noted in para 23 of this report, an "Interrepublican Agreement on
the Long-term Development Policy for Agriculture", known also as the "Green
Plan" (the Plan), was finalized in July 1973 with the support of the Bank.
The Plan was the result of two-to-three years of interrepublican discussion
and was drawn up to provide a comprehensive framework for the development of
agriculture for the period 1973-85. It was revised in 1976, partly on the
basis of experience derived from the First Agricultural Credit Project, to
place even greater emphasis upon the importance of developing the potential of
the individual sector. Basically, the Plan aims to raise production above the
level of domestic requirements by reinforcing the social sector, on the one
hand, through the use of modern production techniques and the expansion of
processing facilities and, on the other hand, by promoting the development of
the individual farmer sector through cooperation with the social sector.
34.       As revised in 1976, the Plan emphasizes livestock production, the
value of which is projected to increase at 4 percent per year (in constant
Dinar terms), and stresses the need for technical and organizational improve-
ments in the collection and processing of milk, particularly for the indi-
vidual farmer sector; emphasis is also given to increased sheep production
in the mountainous and generally poor areas of the country. The production
of vegetables, fruits and grapes is planned to increase in line with rising



- 13 -
living standards at home and increasing export possibilities. The Mediter-
ranean climate zone, where winter and early spring vegetables can be grown,
should provide the largest share of exports. The Plan also considers the
development of efficient food processing industries essential for agricultural
development and the improvement of product quality.
35.       Expanded cooperation among individual farmers and between individual
farmers and social sector organizations is emphasized by the Plan as the major
organizational medium to increase productivity in the individual farmer sector.
Such cooperation would enhance modernization of private farms and mobilize more
resources for investment in the private sector.    The Republics and Provinces
have agreed to support cooperative arrangements through provision of financing,
and interest rate and tax concessions. They have agreed to pass legislation
that would allow cooperating private farmers to join the health and social in-
surance and pension schemes of social sector organizations.
Agricultural Credit
36.       The social sector has long-established credit channels with existing
banks, special funds operated by Federal, Republican and Provincial authori-
ties, suppliers credits and so forth. Credit to the private farmer is normally
provided through a social sector organization with which he has a cooperative
agreement, and this mechanism appears to offer considerable scope for in-
creasing rural incomes. Private farmers may, but evidently rarely do, also
obtain credit directly from the banks, usually on less favorable terms.
37.       In general, official policies favor low interest rates as important
for development purposes, particularly in the LDRs and the agricultural sector.
The prevailing interest rate structure in Yugoslavia varies from three percent
for some investment loans for agriculture, or for investments using resources
from the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of Less-Developed
Regions, to 11-12 percent for short-term loans and 8-12 percent for long-term
"commercial" loans from the banks. There has recently been a growing recogni-
tion within Yugoslavia that the role of interest rates within the economy
needs to be analyzed and a consistent and considered approach adopted. Under
the First Agricultural Credit Project, a study on the role of interest rates
in the agricultural sector was commissioned. This first study, though it has
provided some understanding of the current interest rate structure and a basis
for initiating a dialogue with the Government, was too general and did not
adequately address the complexity of the issue, which requires considerable
empirical work. It was agreed with the Government, therefore, that a further
and more exhaustive study on the role of interest rates in the Yugoslav
economy is required and will be initiated by the Yugoslav Association of
Banks. It was further agreed that on/or before December 1, 1977, the study
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, will be undertaken (Loan
Agreement Section 3.06; Guarantee Agreement Section 3.04).



- 14 -
Bank Involvement in the Sector
38.       It has been part of the Bank's policy in Yugoslavia for some years
to find ways of assisting with the development of agriculture, with a special
emphasis on helping the individual farmer. The 1973 Plan as revised in 1976,
provides a suitable framework for Bank lending, since it aims, by explicitly
supporting the individual farmer sector, to promote more even income distribu-
tion within the sector.
39.       The proposed second agricultural credit project loan would represent
the sixth Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia, follow-
ing the First Agro-industries Project in Macedonia (Loan No. 894-YU) in 1973
(primarily involved with the social sector), the First Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan No. 1129-YU) in 1975 (about 47 percent of which is directly
involved with the individual sector), the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan
No. 1360-YU) in 1977 (primarily involved with the individual sector) and the
recent Agriculture and Agro-industries Projects for the Republics of Montenegro
and Macedonia (Loans Nos. 1370-YU and 1371-YU, respectively), the first pri-
marily involving the social sector and the second having significant involve-
ment in the individual farmer sector. These projects, the progress of which
is summarized in Annex II, are proceeding satisfactorily. The mix between
involvement in the social and individual agricultural sectors in Bank projects
in Yugoslavia has been determined in each particular case by the Federal and
Republican/Provincial Governments' own efforts for the social and individual
farmer sectors and the high priority attached to the specific agricultural
production and processing schemes.
Performance Under the First Agricultural Credit Project
40.       Performance under the first project has been generally satisfactory
and the pace of implementation has accelerated over its life. The loan was
made effective on February 12, 1976, and by the end of the year, 21 percent of
the US$50.0 million Bank loan had been committed by the Participating Banks
(PBs). The loan is expected to be fully committed in the second half of 1977.
Disbursement will probably be substantially completed on schedule by June 30,
1979, the present Closing Date.
41.       Notable progress has been achieved towards attaining a number of
important objectives defined under the first project. These include the estab-
lishment of a nationwide agricultural credit system with uniform appraisal
criteria, a particularly notable achievement given the complexity and diversity
of the Yugoslav environment. Institution building has also progressed remark-
ably well. All PBs now have specific units concerned with evaluating sub-
project proposals and have trained staff in more effective appraisal and super-
vision techniques. Vojvodjanska Banka (VB), the lead bank, has exerted con-
siderable influence in the loan approval process by the prior training and
briefing of those in borrowing kombinats and in PBs who are directly involved
in putting together sub-project proposals. VB's inputs have included training
seminars and discussions, and the exchange of information on an informal basis
with PBs and sub-borrowers.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The Federal Government has asked the Bank to help finance the pro-
posed project under which credit would be provided for investments in fruit
and vegetable growing and livestock development in the individual farmer sec-
tor, and fruit and vegetable processing plants, dairy and milk collection
facilities and meat processing plants in the social sector. The proposed
project, a sequel to the First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1129-YU),
was identified in August 1976 by a Bank mission, and was subsequently prepared,
with the assistance of the Bank, by the banks participating in the first proj-
ect and by the Agricultural Secretariats in the respective Republics and Prov-
inces. The proposed project was appraised in November-December 1976. Negotia-
tions were held May 23-27, 1977 inclusive. The Yugoslav delegation was led by
Mr. Dzemal Drace, Undersecretary of the Federal Committee for Agriculture.
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The p&oposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the report
"Appraisal of a Second Agricultural Credit Project", (No. 1537a-YU). This
report, dated June 13, 1977, is being distributed separately to the Execu-
tive Directors.
44.       The first loan for agricultural credit, which was made in June 1975,
represented a significant initiative in terms of our developing with the
Yugoslav authorities a nationwide credit vehicle for channelling funds to high
priority sub-sectors and to the lesser developed republics and for providing
significant investment credit to the small, individual farmers. These farmers
had been essentially denied access to institutional credit which was concen-
trated instead on financing social sector enterprises. This first project has
very clearly demonstrated the significant demands for, and ability to absorb,
credit in the individual farmer sector. The proposed second project, which is
in line with the objectives of the "Green Plan," would allocate an even greater
proportion of funds to individual farmers and the less-developed regions (under
the proposed project, the individual sector would receive 57 percent of the
proposed loan proceeds as compared to 43 percent under the first project) and
represents in a sense the growing commitment of the Yugoslav authorities con-
cerned to the importance of meeting the needs of private farmers. The closer
links that the project would foster between the individual farmer and social
sectors would contribute to increasing the prosperity of private farmers
through better access to markets and processing plants and, in particular,
make the most of their comparative advantage in livestock production. At
least 50 percent of the processing capacities of sub-projects to be financed
under the loan would be used to handle individual farmer production (Loan
Agreement Schedule 5, 2.(B)(i)(b)).
45.       The components financed under the proposed project would be located
throughout Yugoslavia, taking into consideration particularly the less-
developed Republics and Kosovo as well as the less-developed regions of the



- 16 -
more developed Republics and Vojvodina. The proposed project would provide
funds during the three-year investment period (1977-80) to support the long-
term objective of self-sufficiency in and increased exports of agricultural
products; it would help alleviate major constraints to the further development
of livestock and fruit and vegetable production; it would support the objec-
tives of the Plan to improve product quality and to raise productivity and
incomes in the individual farmer sector, one-third of which is estimated to
be in the relative poverty target group with incomes per family member of less
than US$341 per year (see para 65 of this Report).
46.       The proposed project comprises the provision of credit for:
(a) mixed vegetable production, development of orchards and
vineyards and land development;
(b) livestock farms, including dairy farms, cattle and pig
fattening farms; sheep breeding and fattening farms;
as well as broiler (chicken) farms;
(c) agricultural industries, focusing mainly on milk, meat
and fruits and vegetables and including: milk collect-
ing stations, insulated milk-tank-trucks, construction
of three dairy plants and expansion or modernization of
eleven existing plants; expansion or modernization of
five meat processing plants and financing of an integ-
rated broiler production and processing facility; and
fruit and vegetable processing comprising also three
cold stores with adjacent fruit.grading and packing
facilities, and expansion and/or modernization of
eleven plants producing frozen and pickled vegetables
and fruit juices; and
(d) grain dryers in Vojvodina, the primary cereal producing area
of the Federation.
47.       As under the First Agricultural Credit Project, livestock related
activities, including milk processing plants, will constitute the greater part
of investment and are expected to account for over 40 percent of total project
costs. Primary production of fruits and vegetables, including land develop-
ment, and agro-industries oriented to fruit and vegetable processing are
expected to account for more than 35 percent of total project costs.
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The total cost of the sub-projects, including taxes and duties (about
US$17.0 million equivalent), which the Bank loan would help finance, would be
approximately US$231.0 million equivalent, the proposed Bank loan of US$75.0
million representing the total estimated foreign exchange cost of the project.
This participation represents about 32 percent of total project cost. The loan
would be made to Vojvodjanska Banka (VB) for 15 years, including 3 years of



-17 -
grace. VB would retain $10.8 million of the loan for use in Vojvodina; the
balance would be relent to a Participating Bank (PB) in each of the seven
remaining Republics and Province. The project cash flow shows that sub-
borrowers' and the PBs' repayments would generate sufficient inflow to VB to
repay the Bank loan within 15 years and to cover a reasonable degree of slip-
page in repayment. About 22 percent of the total project cost (US$50.0 million
equivalent) would be contributed by sub-borrowers and 46 percent (US$106.0 mil-
lion equivalent) by the PBs. Fifty-seven percent of the proposed loan would
be allocated to the individual farmer sector, in which 20 percent of a sub-
project's cost would be furnished by the sub-borrower and 52 percent by the
PB. The comparable figures for the social sector would be 25 percent and 34
percent by a sub-borrower and a PB, respectively. For the individual farmer
and social sectors, the Bank's contribution to the cost of a sub-project would
be 28 and 41 percent respectively.
Project Implementation
49.       The organizational framework and institutional structure of the pro-
posed project is identical to that developed and successfully utilized under
the First Agricultural Credit Project, and the risks of non-performance and
implementational difficulties are negligible. The Federal Coordination Com-
mittee, established under the Plan, coordinates agricultural investments in
Yugoslavia, but has no "line" responsibilities. Its members are representa-
tives of the Secretariats for Agriculture of the Republics and Provinces and
of the Federal Government, with the Deputy Chairman of the Federal Committee
for Agriculture as chairman. Assurances have been given that, under the pro-
posed project, the Committee would continue, as under the first project, to
perform its coordination role, including the responsibility for policy ques-
tions and reallocation of proceeds of the loan between Republics and Provinces
and sectors (Guarantee Agreement Section 3.03). The lead bank role would be
filled by VB from its head office in Novi Sad, Vojvodina. The other seven PBs
include Privredna Banka Sarajevo in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Udruzena Banka Zagreg
in Croatia, Kosovska Banka Pristina in Kosovo Province, Stopanska Banka Skopje
in Macedonia, Investiciona Banka Titograd in Montenegro, Beogradska Banka in
Serbia Proper, and Ljubljanska Banka in Slovenia.
50.       VB and the seven Participating Banks together account for nearly 75
percent of the banking activity in Yugoslavia. In general, the PBs enjoy a
status in their own Republics/Province- comparable with that of VB in Vojvodina,
and pursue similar operating policies and procedures. Most of the Participat-
ing Banks are known to the Bank as borrowers or disbursement agents; four of
them are participants in industrial credit projects financed by the Bank
(Loans Nos..1012-YU, 1013-YU and 1277-YU). The PBs, including VB, would be
directly responsible for the execution of the proposed project in their res-
pective Republic or Province and would present appropriate documentation for
reimbursement of the Bank portion of the sub-loans to VB for review and sub-
mission'to the Bank for disbursements. The banks' performance under the first
project has been satisfactory.



- 18 -
51.       VB, selected by the Yugoslavs as the borrower and apex bank for
the first loan because Vojvodina is the most important agricultural area in
Yugoslavia and also because a large part of VB's operations cover the agri-
cultural sector, would continue in this function and be responsible for the
repayment of the proposed loan, and for the overall implementation of the
project by the PBs. VB is a mixed commercial and investment bank comparable
to the borrowers selected for the Bank's industrial credit loans. VB employs
about 1,000 staff and has 14 branch offices in addition to its head office
in Novi Sad. Its management and staff are well-trained and experienced, and
under the First Agricultural Credit Project, they have acquired familiarity
with the appraisal techniques favored by the Bank. VB, like the other regional
banks, operates according to an annual "business policy", which sets out the
main objectives, scope of operations and interest rate structure. Its policies
are under the general supervision of its founders--the principal enterprises in
Vojvodina. VB also acts as a financial agent for the Government of Vojvodina.
52.       Under the First Agricultural Credit Project, a special Project
Operations Department (the Unit) was set up within VB to implement the project.
It has performed satisfactorily. Assurances have been given that the Unit
will continue to operate within VB, and that it will remain adequately staffed
and responsible for appraisal and supervision of all subloans under the first
and the second agricultural credit projects; it was also agreed that the pro-
curement specialist referred to in para 61 of this Report will be added to the
Unit (Loan Agreement Section 3.01(a)).
53.       A training program for the staff of the PBs was launched in January
1975, including a seminar for appraisal criteria. With respect to its own
staff, PB staff and the staff of social sector sub-borrowers, VB would con-
tinue this training role under the proposed project.
54.       Regional and sectoral allocations of the credit to be provided have
been agreed upon by the Republics and Provinces taking into account the agri-
cultural development priorities and regional income and sectoral distribution
objectives and will be enforced by VB in Vojvodina and by the PBs in each of
the other seven Republics and Province. Assurances have been given that the
regional and sectoral distribution of project funds, including the Bank loan,
would be executed as agreed between the Republics and Provinces of the Federa-
tion (Loan Agreement Sechedule 1; Guarantee Agreement Section 3.03).
Relending Terms and Procedures
55.       Onlending terms under the proposed project would be identical to
those provided under the first except that, as VB's risk on its loans to the
PBs is considered minor, the one percent interest spread available to it under
the first project would be replaced by a one percent commission on Bank funds
disbursed by VB to meet the cost of its operations in project administration.
VB would onlend to each PB the amount of the loan allocated to the particular
Republic or Province in which it is located. VB's lending rate on its subsi-
diary loans to PBs out of the proceeds of the Bank loan will be identical to
the rate at which it receives funds from the Bank (8.2 percent). The grace



- 19 -
and repayment periods would be such that each repayment date of subsidiary
loans to VB would be three months before the corresponding repayment date by
VB to the Bank. The commitment fee would be 0.75 percent. These provisions
would be covered under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be concluded between
each PB and VB. Signing between VB and all seven of the PBs, of the subsi-
diary agreement, the terms of which must be to the Bank's satisfaction, is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (Loan Agreement Section
7.01(i)).
56.       The terms of sub-loans under the project would be related to the
cash flow projections of the investments. Assurances have been received
(Schedule 5,3.(C) of the Loan Agreement) that specific grace periods ranging
from one to five years and repayment periods on the sub-loans ranging from
five to ten years, including grace periods, will be enforced except as other-
wise justified by projections of sub-project cash flow at the time the loan
commitment is undertaken by a PB.
57.       As indicated in para 37 of this report, interest rates for invest-
ments in agriculture vary between 3 percent and 12 percent, depending upon
the Republic or Province, the source of funds and the type of investment.
For a number of reasons, the level of interest rates and the variations in
interest rates among regions, banks, similar investments and sectors create
inefficiencies and inconsistencies in resource allocation. As a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the PBs will apply minimum rates on
domestic resources loaned to agriculture and agro-industries under the project.
The minimum will be at least 5 percent for lending to the individual sector
and at least 6 percent for the social sector (Loan Agreement Sections 3.06 and
7.01(ii)). This is a significant departure from the first project and a step
towards unifying agriculture lending rates countrywide. The lending rate to
be applied to the Bank portion of sub-project finance is 11 percent. These
rates are expected to result in minimum blend rates of approximately 8.75
percent and 7.10 percent for social and individual sector sub-borrowers, re-
spectively. The rate structure would provide the PBs with a spread of about
2.5 to 3.0 percent on the proceeds of the Bank loan and at least 1.2 percent
on the local funds portion of the sub-loans; these spreads are considered to
be reasonable and not excessive in view of the banks' needs to cover admin-
istrative expenses which would be incurred under the proposed project.
58.       VB and the PBs would appraise the sub-projects and ensure that they
are technically and financially sound. Social sector investment proposals
would be submitted by the enterprises concerned to the bank having jurisdic-
tion in the particular Republic or Province. Sub-projects in the individual
farmer sector would normally be submitted to the banks by social sector enter-
prises, kombinats or cooperatives which would aggregate investment proposals
of several farmers with whom they would enter into an agreement and which
would borrow on the farmers' behalf. As under the first project, a PB would
be responsible for approving sub-projects having an investment cost below
US$1.0 million. All sub-projects above this level but costing less than
US$1.5 million would be referred to VB for review and approval. Sub-projects
costing more than US$1.5 million would be submitted by VB to the Bank for



- 20 -
approval. The Bank would also review and approve the appraisal of cattle fat-
tening sub-projects. Assurances have been given that these procedures would
be followed (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, 2(c)).
59.       The foreign exchange risk arrangements agreed upon for the first
project will continue to apply under the proposed project. Social sector sub-
borrowers would carry the full foreign exchange risk with respect to the por-
tion of sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan for their own
investments. The foreign exchange risk on sub-loans to private farmers would
be carried by the Federal Republic. It is also expected that VB and the PBs
would protect themselves against the exchange risk on the foreign exchange
accruing to them from sub-loan repayments occurring earlier than amortization
payments of the Bank loan. Assurances to this effect were given by the
Federal Government and VB (Section 3.05 of Guarantee Agreement; Section 5.05
of Loan Agreement).
Procurement
60.       Procurement would be by sub-borrowers under the supervision of VB
and PBs. The following items relating to project investments in the social
sector would be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) according
to Bank guidelines: grain driers; fruit and vegetable grading and packing
equipment; cold storages; milk processing equipment, collecting stations and
tank trucks; the integrated broiler facility and the winery. The integrated
broiler facility and the cold stores contracts would be let on a turnkey basis.
Contract tendering for the equipment and materials agreed upon would be adver-
tised internationally, and Yugoslavian manufacturers would be allowed a 15
percent preference margin or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
It is estimated that items to be procured under ICB would total approximately
US$50.0 million of which about US$10.0 million would probably be awarded
directly to non-Yugoslav suppliers. Bulking of small items for procurement
under ICB would be organized by the PBs in their respective Republics/Province
and by VB on an inter-Republic/Province basis when such a possibility would
appear feasible.
61.       Procurement of all items, except as noted in para 60 above, would be
handled through existing commercial channels or local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures already determined to be satisfactory to the Bank. Such items,
such as minor civil works and equipment for processing facilities involving
contracts of an amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000, would not
be suitable for bulk purchase and ICB owing to a number of factors including
the dispersion of investors throughout the country and, in certain cases of
expansion and modernization of processing facilities, the advantages of ensur-
ing compatibility with equipment already in place. Existing commercial chan-
nels, which include domestic and international suppliers, maintain generally
adequate supplies of spare parts, provide servicing and repair facilities and
are suitably competitive. For those contracts procured under LCB and exceed-
ing US$250,000 equivalent, VB would furnish to the Bank promptly after execu-
tion, two conformed copies of such contracts together with an analysis of the
respective bids received and recommendations for award. For those contracts
procured under LCB exceeding US$100,000, but less than US$250,000 equivalent,



- 21 -
VB and the PBs would (i) retain such contracts and make them available for
review by the Bank during supervision; and (ii) furnish to the Bank a report
containing an analysis of bids and the recommendation and justification for
the award, including a certification that local procurement procedures had
been followed. For contracts procured under LCB not exceeding US$100,000
equivalent, VB and the PBs would retain such contracts for Bank review during
supervision and would furnish to the Bank, along with applications for with-
drawals, certification that local procurement procedures had been followed.
Assurances have been given by VB that it would appoint the procurement spe-
cialist, referred to in para 52 of this Report, to the staff of its Project
Operations Department to assist with all aspects of procurement under the
project (Section 3.01(a) of Loan Agreement). The Yugoslav authorities will
engage local consultants for the interest rate study referred to in para 37 of
this Report as well as for preparation of the monitoring procedures referred
to in para 64 of this Report. Such consultants will be financed locally.
Disbursements
62.       Bank disbursements would take about 3 years, although the entire
loan is expected to be committed by the end of year 2. The annual disburse-
ment of the proposed loan proceeds is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 35 percent of the indivi-
dual sector and 55 percent of the social sector sub-loans made by VB and the
PBs to their respective sub-borrowers.
Project Auditing
63.       As required by Yugoslav law, all banks and enterprises are audited
annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). Normal audit by SDK, which
is limited to verification of cash balances and checking of financial state-
ments for mathematical accuracy and comparisons with previous years, does not
conform to internationally accepted standards. SDK has implemented a training
program for its staff, with the Bank's support, to undertake internationally
accepted audits of Yugoslav banks. Full audits for all PBs will not become
available, however, until after the end of the disbursement period of the
proposed project, given the number of banks involved in SDK's program and the
difficulties in verification posed by the scope of the banks' operations and
the absence of conventional auditing by international standards at the founders'
level. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement would therefore provide that during the
transition period, i.e., before satisfactory audits can be performed, the PBs
would submit within six months of the end of the fiscal year and through VB to
the Bank, SDK certified financial statements acceptable to the Bank. The
subsidiary agreement would also provide that, when satisfactory audits can be
performed, financial statements audited in accordance with international stand-
ards would be submitted by the PBs through VB to the Bank within six months of
the end of each fiscal year.
ProJect Monitoring and Evaluation
64.       VB will provide the Bank with quarterly and annual reports covering
the progress of the project, sublending operations under the project, financial



- 22 -
data pertaining to the project, the financial statements of VB and the PBs and
general data on agriculture and economic policy affecting the implementation
of the project. VB would also be responsible for evaluating the project's
benefits at the level of social sector sub-borrowers and also at the level of
individual farmer sub-borrowers. Evaluation is to involve field surveys as
well as examination of data pertaining to the production and financial perform-
ance of social sector investments under the project. As a condition of effec-
tiveness, VB will have secured to itself and the PBs all assistance satis-
factory to the Bank for the purpose of preparing suitable monitoring procedures
to apply to the first as well as to the proposed second agricultural credit
project; also, VB and the PBs will take all appropriate action to implement
promptly on or before March 31, 1978 such monitoring procedures as agreed upon
with the Bank (Loan Agreement Sections 3.03, 3.04(b) and 7.01(iii)).
Justification, Benefits and Risks
65.       About US$43.0 million, or 57 percent of the proposed Bank loan,
would be directly channelled to an estimated 16,800 small farmers (of which
about 50 percent would be located in less-developed regions) to undertake
selected onfarm investments. The remaining US$32 million or 43 percent of the
proposed Bank loan would affect the income of at least an additional 40,000
individual farmers by enhancing their access to markets and related services
through cooperation with the social sector. Approximately 60 percent of all
project beneficiaries in the individual farmer sector are in the Yugoslav
poverty target group, with pre-project incomes not exceeding US$341 equivalent
per family member. Under the proposed project, it is expected that the aver-
age annual income of individual farmers would increase by over 100 percent
to approximately US$700; income increases would range from about 40 percent
for farmers involved in sheep production to above 200 percent for high value
crops, i.e., investments in vineyards and other fruit production.
66.       The proposed project would also create substantial employment oppor-
tunities. An estimated 4,200 incremental manyears would be generated from
investments in the social and about 6,000 manyears in the individual farmer
sector. For the additional 16,800 farmers referred to in para 65, the pro-
posed project would reduce underemployment. About 8,600 additional manyears
would be generated during the 3 year investment period: 4,500 manyears in the
social sector for building and construction work and engineering services, and
4,100 manyears in the private sector for expanding buildings, establishing
fruit trees and vineyards and digging wells. The additional investments and
consumption of inputs, such as fertilizer, pesticides, fuel, via their back-
ward linkages, and the increased production via forward linkages, would
generate sizeable indirect employment opportunities, which have not been
quantified.
67.       The proposed project, by involving eight major banks, would bring
about substantial benefits from improved resource allocation, particularly
in the less-developed regions. The staff of VB and the PBs, which would be
trained under the proposed project, will help social sector as well as indi-
vidual farmer sub-borrowers in the preparation of sub-projects and are likely
to handle most of the credit financed investments in the agricultural sector.



- 23 -
Their experience gained under the proposed project could result in significant
savings of investment resources in the agricultural sector. Taking into
account foreign exchange savings through import substitution (mainly feed
grains and milk products) and direct and indirect import components of invest-
ments and operating costs, the total net foreign exchange earnings or savings,
over the proposed project's 20 year lifetime, are estimated at something on
the order of US$400 million (at 1977 prices).
68.       The overall economic rate of return on the project, including
physical contingencies, is estimated at 22 percent. Although the administra-
tive and training costs are included in the proposed project costs, their
benefits cannot be quantified. Hired labor has been valued at prevailing wage
rates. Family labor has not been costed as operating expenses because there
are unused labor capacities on private farms. However, family labor devoted
to investment activities has been costed at prevailing wage rates. Wheat,
maize, wool, tobacco and beef were projected at world market price levels.
Other commodities were valued at January 1977 farmgate prices, adjusted for
import duties, taxes and subsidies. A sensitivity analysis was applied to
test the proposed project against changes in investment costs, operating
expenses and production results. By increasing investment costs and operating
expenses alternatively by 10 percent, the rate of return would drop to 20
percent and 15 percent, respectively. By decreasing the value of the benefits
by 10 percent, the overall return would drop to 12 percent. The economic
rates of return for individual components of fruit and vegetable, livestock
development and agro-industries are 25 percent, 23 percent, and 18 percent
respectively. Sensitivity analysis applied to the individual benefit and
cost streams of these respective components show that they remain acceptable.
69.       The risks of implementational difficulties and of non-performance
in the project are not great due to the experience gained under the first
project and, as noted in para 49 of this Report, the fact that the organiza-
tional and institutional structures of the project are identical to those
developed and utilized successfully under the first Project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft loan agreement between Vojvodjanska Banka and the Bank,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft reso-
lution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
71.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III of this
Report. Special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01) are:
(i) VB and each of PBs to conclude between themselves the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement (referred to in para 55 of this Report);



- 24 -
(ii)  VB and each of the PBs to apply, to their domestic resources made
available to investment projects, interest rates differentiated
sectorally as follows: a minimum rate of 5 percent for lending to
the individual farmer sector and 6 percent for the social sector
(referred to in para 57 of this Report); and
(iii)  VB to secure for itself appropriate assistance in preparing a set
of monitoring procedures acceptable to the Bank (referred to in
para 64 of this Report).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 22, 1977



I+
0.
fa-a   00e         a m 
00  -  00  04400  0  C  040 40   * -  00a-'*.; Z      .    0A0   000  0   00  0  a0 W               ala
Ed t.              M       10-U                                   0    t:e            du               O -
ot  * 
54  0  40  0  00-  0  04           ON                   0  Ca~~~~~~~~~~~~;1.;   ;C  4  000 of 0 mNOm  4  : 0  I.;.:4
ID                                                                                                           a
no -a ava
jb                                           0- a
a.  s                                        0                                                           -  a~~~~;  ; ~  ,   -em e
a.  a                                                                                        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0
5. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
@0   0                                                                                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0I -W
o m   a-  o                                                                                               a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,O_R0a
lb  a                   00 - -               0''0  IL
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  a-c::  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ww .. D  D  a--  f
00  a                                                       ** a~. M=! tpIMO : C-8-ba                 i
04 cm                                            -1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  a~~~~I  M ~ 3- &0 " ,- 
Sd  0-00  0  000.0  04  0-  000  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Ab ..1sr  W  040 CZ . -60W0  Z 4=   Mr0W0   -adsC   - 0-  -:. - a  .  0000
*o 0"0000.      X.      00  C0                  0     @    00 0aN         0 0 X  ~   ,W _e,m   aaMaO IL
Ur'        N  v      0       0  04ft                  -       -a--2  'a0 'NON      0. X  a--9 0  A       Oo0as   a 1.
*  .                                              Ot'"                                   m  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  L .'
.0-  a                                                                                                  -  a~~~~tO N  D60-a A  aaI- .a 0  ~ W.Zt
*  a                                                                                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a0   t t
* 0  400  0  00  *0a-~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~0 00.  N3.-~af a-.N  4 M -  00 a  0 00  00 00   )  O 0  O 0      o
.ae  95.  .  -....              ...    ..a.     *.        ...  a               .  a  .  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  a4DaraW  - 
z :    -  0-.N  0.04     N ~~~~~~~~~MO0-4-  00x W i  0  -   0 W.X.X0mu0Wa-a-           0  20         0  07lr  a
00  .094~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or, f               0                    c-," - W)e Wa             b  Wt4        M I.5
a  l 0                    -                   06m  aa )7Z-fC   )C
0.0                                                                                                        - SM~~~~=1 0  -C
9L  S  IL  a  a                                     IL~~~~~~~~~~~~44 
I  2  0  :dL                        .-    -                0E                                       a.   b
0 5 O       -=  -.*                       .                                                       ..  m



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Unles o therotee noted, data for 1960 refer to say year between. 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recan.t Estimate
betwee 1973 and 1975.
* I Agriculture land held by social sec tor - "liosshinte."1
* II Agriculture lind held by private snal1-ho1dera "10 hectarea inanimnos."
aSelection of Federal Republic af Garinsay as on objective country ia based on the cloae economic ties maintained by the two countries
aweas s1 on the fact that the greater part of Yugoslavia's around one million workers tenporarily abroad have found sooploy-net in
the Federal Republic of Germny.
YUGOSLAVIA           1960    I   1963;   lb   Iacloding dentists;    Ic  Including midwives, assistant midwivea, assistant murses and
nursing aumilaries.
1970   Ia   icluding dentists;     lb  Including miwie,aitanst midwives, assistont mursas and nursing asoilaries.
MOST RECENT ESTDIATE:    Ia   1970-75;   /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 amd over to total labor force;
7c   Including ab'out 800 thousand migrant worbera working outside;     jd  Raesidents only;
T.   Including dentists;    If  Including midwives, assistant moidwiv,es, assistant nurses and
nursing auilarias;  ~ 1969-71 average;   /b  1971;   /i1-iade only.
ROMANdlIA            1970   I   The calculation of these figures is under diocu...ion;      lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over
to total labor force;    Ic  Fs11-tias  educa.tion only;   Id  1966;    /e  1aids only.
SPAIN                1970    IaEploynent office estima te;       b   Registarad, not all practicing in the country.
GERMNPiY fED. REP.   1977   IsTotal, urban and rural        lb  Inside only.
Rli, Nay 19, 1977
DEPINrrIONIS OP SOCIA INDICAT(NS
Land Ares ftbom _'2)                                                                   Ppnslation pe, nursin pear..o- Population divided by snber of practicing
Total -Total surface area c priig Loand aces and inland waters,                          male and fns1l grad sate norses,  trained" or "certified" sores., and
Amric. -Most recent estinota of agricultural area osed tempsrarily or Paons-             asiliary personnel with training or experienc..
seaitly for crops, pastures,  arhet 6 kitcben gardena or to lie fallow.              PoosItiton pear hospital bed - Population divIded by snmber of hospital beds
avilable in Public and private general and epecialiced hospital and
GNP Per capita (US$) - GNP par capita estmtues. at correct arket prices.                 rehabilitation centern; e..cIodea srsisg bones and eatablIaheents for
calculated by sam  convrete   method as World Rank utlas (1973-75 basis);              cuatodia1 end prevativ   sacs.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                            Per,~. caIt' esenly or oslortee (% of rCsrnst)     -Ptoeotd fr-omnergy
eqoIvan  of net fond supplies avilable in country per capita par day;
PoPuletion and vital statistic;                                                          available sppliee cmprise domestic production, imports leasesparts, sad
Posolation (mid-ya mlIo)        iofuly first:      if not available, veraga              changes ic stock; net sapplies enolcda animal feed, ..eda, quan.tities used
af two. end-yea  estimates; 1)160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                 in food processing and losses in distribution; reqoirauts were eatifeted
by F'AQ based on pbysiological needs for norma activity and health .-nsid-
Population d...att, -per 550a r  4   Mid-yasr population per squara kilomter             ering  -iromsentl tmoparatsra    body seights. age and ens distributions of
(100 hactree 7 of total area.                                                          population, and allowing ISt for us te at household Level.
.PonlatianLdensity -par esmre be of goric. land - Compoted as above for                Per c.nit. aspely of protein (stasa par day) - Protein content of per capita
agrico1tura1 land only.                                                                net supply of food par day; net sspply of food is deEimed as above; reqite-
-ents for all coutrias esetsblished by USDA Economio Resea.rch Seroicee
Vital statistics                                                                         provide for a mistim   allowance of 60grs of ltota   pratein par day, and
Crude birth rats pec thouand. -v-ras   - Annual LIva births per thousand of              20 arms. of anima and pulee protein, of which 10 atom   should be animal
mid-yea  populetion; ran-year arithstic -v-rgs    ceding in 1960 and 1970,             protein; shone stadards are lowe   than those of 75 gram  or totl1 protis
sod five-yeaPr aveage ending in1975 for mast recet estImate.                           and 23 grasv of animal pruteio as an ov,erage fur the werld, proposed by~ FAO
Crude death rate ear _h,ond     vrao   - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year          in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year aritisstic averges anding in 1960 end 1970 and fiv-             Per can itaforoteic surply from, animal and euln  - Protein supply of food
year scr age ending in 1971 for nest resent estimate,                                  derived from  nimln edpulses in grana par day.
nfant mortality rtel f/thou) - AnnualI deoths of infants under one year of age        Death rats f/hu   aas1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand tn ago group 1-4
pe  thosn    lie   irths                                                               yer,tchildreo in this age group; suggested eanindicator of
Lie tsecrno  at birth lyre) - Overage n=ovhr of years of life remining at            ma'lnoet ioon.
birth; samally five-year averages ending is 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dovelop-
ing coostrin.                                                                        Udocs tin
Gro.. rentodolion rate - Averaga   omber of LIve daughtereawma     sill hea            Adiuatad -nrli-et ratio - primary school - Enroliment of aLl ege    as Per-
toher noma reprodustive peid if,abs enpe,rieoca     preneot age-pe-ific                en1tags o prmayischool.-age   . pop latio; Incladee shildron, aged 6-11 years
fertIltyoats      slly ft, vayear    erage  sding in 1990, 1970 and 19715u aduted for difeetlnths o                          primary education ; for coutries with
for developn    oncis                                                                  sniv_r_   adoration, enrollmet m3,ay escd lOOT since sm    "puIls are baby
Poplaio  goth rate IT) -totl - Compuod annual growth rates of ntd-y-s              at shov  the official school age.
popolatiem  for 1910-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                        Adjuted snro1lmsnt ratio - secondary school - Computed sa shove; seondary
Poeslatton srseth rats (151 - urba  - Computed like growth rate of total                 educa.tion requires at Il..st four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definiticon of  rhan aroea may affsect somparbility of           provides ganer1, v-catial at t..sher training instructions for PpupIls
da.tap amn  osutries.                                                                  of 12 to 17 years of age; corrspondan... sonrsoo are gene.rally escluded.
Uta ealtbo   ofTc  total) - Ratio of urhan to total population; different         Years of soboaling erovidad (finet end second level) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affsect comparability of dots among countries.          scoboling; at secondary level, -oCtinenl instruction may be partially or
cople-tely eslu-ded
Racstruture (cercent) - Children (0-14 Yeast), working-age (11-64 years),              VocatiOnal enrollment fof -oondarvo - Vocationa     inotitotione include
and retired (65 years and over) as.prcetages of mid-yea    po.pulation                 technical, industrial or othr program    hitch operate indepeedencly or s
Aoe dePendeo   ra tic - UsR  o I pop  tionodar5 an od65 and sur to thoac                 departments of seondery isetitutroon.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                               AdoIt literacy rate IT) - Litertel adults (able to read sod write) as pe-
tco'noir doep-descy ratio - Ratlo of PoPulation -eder 1) -td 65 and ove  to              ...otogo of total adult Ppoplation aged 15 years ond ovor.
the labor force in apge gruof 11-64 years.
PFvily pi .n.in - a..tecore    m   latv., thou) - uoltiv-    usber of -ceptors         5...sLog
of birth-oo-trcl devices under auspices of oatmeal fsaily planning progrom           Persons earroo   (,rban) - oerage somber of persona per rune in occopied
slav  ice.ption.                                                                      covetonl d_selingn in urban or...; dwellings soc lodeno-eaet
PFnlvy elnt     -sr        IT of mari.od wmn   Parses.tages of married womes of         teotussu  es ad o-cccpied parse.
child-beaigae      1-4yar)woue birth-control devices to all married                  Ocuiddelnawtotcod wa,te,ri(O                Occupiod con-ntto-1 d-weiitng
womos is sas ago froup.                                          ~~~~~~~~~is urban ad  ruali area  itbou  nod or outside piped water farillite-
aspretg  f all ocopied dwellings.
toeloyment                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acoes toelcrIcity, IT_ ofal dwellings .  CovnIna wliogs wish
Total Labor foroc Ith-ussd)    Ecuonomirally active persoos, incioding armed             el1-triotty inlvnICatr          speresr      toaldeligsi ubs o
focsand -nnployd hut ess1udIng housewives, students, ass.; definitions              rural areas.
Isvaious c-tris are nut comparable.                                                 Rural dweILLngs sonnet.td to electricity  fl.Computed as above for rura
Labor f-rca is  siulue(TI - AgrisoIltursI labo,r force (to farsteg, foresty,             dwellins only.
hooting and fishing) as Por--nsage of total labor frce
feomeloyad I% of labor force)I - Oaployad are_oually def'ined as persons who           bonsomoio
are able and willing so take a Job, oct of a job on a g Ives day, romitnd out        tadis re  ore eer thou cop) - III types of receivers for radio br..adrasto
of a Job, sold seig wcfoaspcfe             niio    peidotcceigneto gene.ral publs per thousand of p.pultloc; -sciden onlicensdrsevo
week mayact e soparabole betee  coutries due to differen t definitions            in countries and to years whe. registraton of ..di. sate was in effcst;
ofnomployd and cors     of daa, eg,epoenofie             ttiis,a        ledata for resen.t years may sot he comparable lnca mos countries abolished
surveYs, compolsry nseploymet insurance.                                               lioconslog.
PI'rne cr      lEer thou con)                  c aoegrcasoprise astor care ecattog
Inom  diasribstion - Percentage of private inccm   (both in sas h sod kind)              lesthe    eight persons; encloden ombulanses, hearses and military
reoclved by riohest IT, richest 2OT, Poorest SOT, sod Poorest hiT of bones-            vehisle-
holds.                                                                               Ele-trt.cis Iltwbr ear cae) - onA-1 consomption of industrial, c-mrcilal
poblic and private electricity in kilowa:tt hour  per t.pit., genrall
Dietribottan of load ow   -rhip - Prce-tage  of 1aod cesd by weathiest liT               based onProducoton data, without all    .a.s far Losses in grigds hotallow..
and poorest 1ST of laed onr,Lug far imports and eports of eestritity.
Neweerinit (kg1yr per ran) - Per ca.pita annual. consop,ion in kilogram
gesith ad Nutrition                                                                      etimte    from domestic production pl-e net import of newsprint.
Poelato  aer ehysiciam - Popalattom div,ided by soakr of practising
Physiistan  qualified from a medical sch-1ool at-i-rity 1-v1.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVRLOPMENT DATA
(Aoosouta in Million US Dollars)
Actual             Prelailoary     Projected
1972     1973     1974         1975 1/        1976 1/           1965-72      1972-75      1973-76         1972     1974      1976
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                      Cosntant 1974 Ps.ic.s and Exchaaaa Rate of $1   17-. Din.             Aver.e Annual Growth Rates               A, Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                    21,638  22,720   24,765      25,887         26,922                 5.6          6.2          5.8         97.8    100         99.3
Gains from Terms of Trade                    468     681      -          +142           +197                                                        2.2      -          0.7
Gross Domestic In.ome                     22,106  23,401   24,765      26,029         27,119                 5.5          5.6          5.0        100.0    100        100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                        6,588   7,600    8,312       8,350          8,082               12.6           8.2          2.1         29.7     33.6       29.8
Exports (incl. NFS)                        5.437   5.788    5.694       5.872          6.506                 8.3          2.6          4.0         24.5      23.0      24.0
Resource Gap                               1,151   1,812    2,618       2,478          1,576
Consumption Expenditure                   16,139  17,716   19,953      19,795         19,670                 6.7          7.0          3.5         73.0     80.6       72.5
Investment Expenditure                     6,650   6,816    7,429       8,570          8,827                6.0           8.8          9.0         30.1     30.0       32.5
National Savings                           6,904   6,606    6,241       7,330          8,717                 6.6          2.0          8.6         31.2      25.2      32.1
Domestic Savings                           5,499   5,006    4,812       6,092          7,252                3.1           3.5         13.2         24.9     19.4       26.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                  Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                   As a Percentage of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                              689   1,004    1,305       1,887          1,877                                                       21.4     17.4       25.0
Petroleum                                  126     296      843         756          1,015                                                        3.9      11.2      13.5
Intermediate Goods                       1,910   2,513    4,398       4,296          3,826                                                       59.2     58.5       51.0
Consumption Goods                          502     698      972         758            784                                                       15.6     12.9       10.5
Total March. Imports (c.i.f.)            3,227   4,511    7,518       7,697          7,502                                                      100.0    100.0      100.0
Exports
Capital Goods                              316     389      514         695            920                                                       14.1     13.5       18.8
Textile and Leather Goods                  362     409      477         600            761                                                       16.2     12.5       15.6
Non-ferrous Metallurgy                     272     325      556         458            472                                                       12.2     14.6        9.7
Agricultural Products (incl. food)         400     475      439         488            640                                                       17.9      11.5      13.1
Other                                      887   1.255     .L89       1.831          2.093                                                       39.7     47.8       42.8
Total Merch. Exports (f.o.b.)            2,237   2,853    3,805       4,072          4,886                                                      100.0    100.0      100.0
MERCRANDISE TRADE INDICES                                   1974 a 100
Export Price Index                          63      76      100         109            114
I=port Price Index                         58       68      100         105            109
Terms of Trade lnden                       109     112      100         104            105
Export Volume  Loden                        93      99      100          98            112
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                     Annual Data in Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate
of $1 - 17.0 Din.                                                                      An a Percentace of Total
Agriculture                              3,213   3,496    3,763       3,663          3,846                2.7          4.5           3.2         15.6     16.0       15.0
Manufacturing and Mining                 6,374   6,712    7,471       7,888          8,125                6.6           7.4          6.6         31.0     31,8       31.8
Other                                   10.956  11.362   12.276      13.026         13.589                5.4          5.9           6.2         53.3     52.2      53.2
Total                                   20,543  21,370   23,512      24,577         25,560                5.3           6.2          6.2        100.0    100.0      100.0
PUBLIC PINANCE 2/                                           Current Prices                                                                        As Percent of GDP/Market Priceo
Current Receipts                         2,772   3,489    4,841         ..            ..                   ..           ..           ..          17.5     19.5
Current Expenditurea                     2,520   3,154    4,794         ..            ..                   ..           ..           ..          16.0     19.4
Budgetsry Savings                          251     334      -47         ..            ..                  ..            ..           ,.           1.6      0.2
Public Sector Inveatment                   224     281      328        ..             ..                  ..            ..           ..           1.4      1.3
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER 3/                     TOTAL LABOR FORCE_                               VALUE ADDED PER WORKER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE $1 - 17 Die.
Million       7. of Total         1972-75                     US Dollars           Percent of Average        1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate             1972     1975            1972     1975    Av. Ann. Growth Rate
Agriculture 4/                            3.6     3.0    45.0    37.4         -5.9                       893    1,211               35       40           10.7
Menufacturing and Mining                  1.65    1.87   20.6    23.3          4.3                     3,863    4,218              150      138            3.0
Other 3/                                  2.75    3.15   34.4    39.3          4.6                     3.984    4,135              155      135            1.2
Total                                    8.00     8.02  100.0   100.0          0.1                     2,568    3,064              100      100            6.1
1/ To be updated upon receipt of latest statistical data.
2/ Budgets of Federation, Ropublics and Autonomo=a Provinces, and Consunes.
3/ Total resident active labor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad and u-employed.
4/ Active labor force in the private sector (agriculture and other) and, accordingly, total are estimates.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
May 31, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                    Estimated   Projected  Growth Rates
1972    1973     1974    1975      1976        1977       1972-75
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                3425    4407     5694    6315       7259       8125          16.5
Imports (incl. NFS)                3821    5168     8312    8767       8666      10030          23.1
Resource Balance (X-M)             -395     -761   -2618   -2452      -1408      -1905
Interest                           -165    -222     -285    -337       -360       -428          19.6
Workers Remittances                 889     1310    1511    1575       1728       1700          15.4
Other factor services net            17       50      93      62         40         42          38.2
Current Transfers (net)              74       87     110     120        150        150          12.8
Balance on Current Account          419     454    -1189   -1032        150       -441
M&LT Loans /1
Disbursements                     943     1170    1426    1850       1700       1781          20.1
Repayments                       -570    -686     -814    -930       -900      -1091          13.6
Net Disbursements                   373      454     612     920        800        690          28.3
Capital Transactions n.e.i./2      -117     -285     139     -68        -33          -
Use of Reserves                    -675     -663     438     180     -_-917        -250                Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                            DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE/L4    1972    1973     1974     1975
Official Grants & Grant-like         -        -       -       -     Public Debt Out. &        16T8T-0  18 T    2056.3   22 TE-5
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                             75.0    104.9   256.5   209.0    Interest on Public Debt     63.2    97.1   101.2     120.8
IDA                                -        -       -       -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3     205.0   282.3     309.0
Other Multilateral                 -        -       -       -     Total Public Debt Service 217.5    302.1   383.5     429.8
Governments                     183.9    179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service          638.2   746.4    822.7    989.7
Suppliers                        82.3      3.0      .6      -    Total Debt Service          855.7  1048.5   1206.2   1419.5
Financial Institutions          121.4       -     73.1    86.2
Bonds                              -        -     51.5      -    Burden on Export Earnings (%)/-
Public Loans n.e.i.               4.2       -       -       -
Total Public M&LT Loans           466.8    287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio    5.0     5.2     5.2       5.4
Total Debt Service Ratio    19.5    18.1     16.5     17.7
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -        -        -        -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                Disbursements only         Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                        559.1                 24.6
IDA                                 -                    -            Int. as Z Prior Year
Other Multilateral                  5.3                    .2                       DO&D         4.7     6.0     5.4       5.9
Governments                      1304.3                 57.4          Amort. as % Prior Year
Suppliers                         115.6                  5.1                        DO&D        11.5    12.7    15.1      15.0
Financial Institutions            269.9                 11.9
Bonds                              18.1                   .8        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                    .1                 -               as % Public Debt O&D   19.6    18.8    20.6      24.6
2272.5                100.0            as % Public Debt
Services    14.7     12.7    11.6      12.9
Other M&LT Debts/3               3492.7
Short-term Debt (disb. only)        -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,     IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/  Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
May 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at May 31, 1977)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose          Bank   Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans fully disbursed                                    474.7
751      1971   SFRY                         Roads                35.0      0.2
752      1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran     Tourism              10.0      0.3
777      1971   SFRY                         Multipurpose Water   45.0     28.8
782      1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,Dubrovnik Tourism               20.0      1.4
836      1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia    Power                75.0     11.9
894      1973   Stopanska Bai,ka, Skopje     Agricultural
Industries         31.0      6.2
916      1973   Naftagas                     Gas Pipeline         59.4     23.0
947      1973   Kikinda                      Iron Foundry         14.5      0.7
965      1974   IMT                          Tractor Factory       18.5     0.1
966      1974   FOB                          Iron Foundry         15.0      0.6
990      1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                 Roads                30.0      1.9
1012     1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje      Industrial Credit    28.0     10.4
1013     1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo     Industrial Credit    22.0      9.2
1026     1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways             93.0    47.7
1060     1974   Port of Bar                  Harbor Expansion     44.0     32.7
1066     1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik            Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     5.9
1129     1975   Vojvodjanska Banka           Agricultural Credit  50.0     44.8
1143     1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                 Roads                40.0    32.0
1173     1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod       Pipeline             49.0     46.3
1262     1976   Republicki Fond Voda         Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources             20.0    19.6
1263     1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &      Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage             45.0    44.2
1264     1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise      Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control              38.0    38.0
1277     1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka     Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit               50.0    48.9



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year            Borrower(s)            Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1360/a   1977   Management Organization     Multipurpose Water    54.0    54.0
"Metohija"
1370/a   1977   Investiciona Banka,         Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries            26.0    26.0
1371/a   1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje     Agriculture
Industries           24.0     24.0
1377/a   1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                      Roads                 56.0    56.0
Total (less cancellation)                             1,473.1*  614.8
of which has been repaid                                163.6
Total now outstanding                                 1,309.5
Amount sold                            7.8
of which:  Amount repaid             6.3                1.5
Total now held by Bank                                1,308.0
Total undisbursed                                               614.8
/a Not yet effective.
*   A loan of US$80.0 million to six electric power organizations for a Second
Power Transmission Project was approved subsequent to the above date of
Statement A.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at May 31, 1977)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business      Loan    Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corporation   Investment
for Yugoslavia                       Corporation     -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.      Automotive
Industry        5.0     8.0     13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt      Industry        7.5     2.3      9.8
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler             Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry       12.9     2.9     15.8
1972   Sava/Semperit                          Tires           4.0     1.5      5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                            Pulp and Paper 13.3      -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel  10.0      -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0     -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                    Steel          50.0      -      50.0
Total Gross Commitments                                 112.7   16.7    129.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   61.6     2.4     64.0
Total commitments held by IFC                           51.1    14.3     65.4
Total Undisbursed                                        8.8     6.2     15.0



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the con-
ditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections has
progressed well. All road sections are open for traffic, although one section
in Slovenia is about 92 percent complete. Because of shortage of funds the
Republican Road Authority has reprogrammed its completion. The first 44 km
was opened at the end of June 1976 and the last 6.5 km will be finished by
September 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Following initial delays in project implementation due to appointing
consultants, providing the necessary infrastructure and obtaining approvals by
local authorities, bids received in July 1974 indicated that the project, as
originally envisaged (2,500 beds), would cost approximately 100 percent above
the originally estimated cost of US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly
due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the project spon-
sors have agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 1,616 beds
(Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-258) at an estimated cost
of US$39.9 million, requiring additional financing by the sponsors of about
US$14.0 million. Following the resolution of the financial problems excellent
progress was made and the Port and Village hotels were opened for occupancy
on June 4, 1976. Structural problems were encountered with the foundations
for the Cliff Hotel, but construction was completed and the hotel opened on
April 2, 1977.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 20, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir will be filled
soon. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1978. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
legislation.  A draft law has been prepared by the Kosovo Government and is
expected to be enacted in the near future, which will assist in the formation
of specialized services, including agricultural extension for the private
sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the
project sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034
beds (Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost
of US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million
and a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment
to Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy on June 5, 1976.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The Project construction is progressing slowly and is expected to
be completed by December 1977, about one year late. Its cost has increased to
about $425 million (up 89 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The
resulting cost overrun is being financed from funds received from the Federal
Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources.
Appointment of management consultants was delayed until mid 1976 and their
report is now expected in June 1978, about 3 years late. The promulgation of
the new Constitution in 1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and
financial status of the Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement
of their policy of pooling resources at the Republican levels requires changes
in the legal arrangements including the application of financial covenants.
These are being considered along with the proposed second power transmission
project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are completed, five are under construction. Status
of the two remaining subprojects is as follows: (i) slaughterhouse facility
construction contract has been signed but is being amended to incorporate
Bank's comments; (ii) wine byproducts facility will either be retendered or
not constructed at all because of the high investment costs and resulting low
financial viability. In latter case, a substitute subproject will be financed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by early 1979.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The Project was inaugurated on September 4, 1976. Total project
costs exceeded appraisal estimates by about 12% (about US$4.5 million equiv-
alent) due to increases in local costs resulting largely from design changes.
Financing of this overrun was arranged with a local bank.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Effective Date: June 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The factory was officially inaugurated on March 7, 1976. Completion
work on minor portions including some equipment procurement, however, is con-
tinuing.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by four months. The
Project cost is expected to exceed appraisal estimates by 45% (about US$20
million equivalent) due to higher than anticipated inflation and some design
changes. The cost overrun is entirely in local currency and is being
financed by a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Five out of six road sections are complete. The remaining section
should be completed by June, 1977. Two requests for changes in road alignments
have been agreed in order to provide better service to two communities.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is almost fully committed,
but the final date for submission of sub-projects has been extended by another
six months to December 31, 1977 to allow adjustments in individual sub-loans,
as needed, and to allow the banks time to submit additional projects for finan-
cing from resources freed as a result of such adjustments. Loan disbursements
have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to soon catch up
and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. After substantial delays in project execution due principally
to financial and administrative difficulties, good progress is now being made.
Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway tariffs to lag behind
inflation, but tariffs have recently been increased to cover current inflation.
The Bank is currently reviewing with the Government the form of subsidization
being proposed. Good progress continues on investment planning.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
In general the Project is progressing well, but is now about 8
months behind schedule due to delays in procurement, most recently regarding
the grain silos, for which final designs have not yet been completed. Com-
pletion of the project is likely to be at least 6 months after the original
completion date of December 1977.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation. Preliminary calculations indicated the need for a
substantial tariff increase to meet the Loan Agreement's financial covenants,
but the commune authorities approved a smaller increase. The Bank is seeking
explanations from the communal and federal authorities together with their
proposals for resolving the matter.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Commitments for investments in social sector enter-
prises are running ahead of those for private farmers, due largely to insti-
tutional arrangements in Yugoslavia, but a substantial pipeline of private
sector subprojects will ensure the desired balance. As of May, 1977 more
than half of the project funds have been committed, following a slow start.
Disbursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational
and learning curve problems and the time lag between commitments and disburse-
ments.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction has started in the Republics of Serbia, Slovenia
and Montenegro. Two contracts have still to be awarded in the Republic of
Montenegro.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a four-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the project will be completed
on schedule.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is under way. Terms of Reference
and selection of consultants have been finalized for the flood control and
water quality studies. Final designs and tender documents for the Vrutci Dam
are being reviewed, and construction should begin in 1977. Construction is
under way on some parts of the Cacak component and tenders are being invited
for the principal work in Titovo Uzice. The impetus towards the creation of
the Morava Region Water Community of Interest has slowed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing is being strength-
ened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been re-
cruited and work on four major tenders is completed. Tendering began in April
1977, a few months behind schedule.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This loan was declared effective on May 31, 1977.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Twenty-five subprojects, including 18 below the free limit, have been
approved for disbursements ft a total committed amount of US$14.9 million.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is July 29, 1977.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is June 30, 1977.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is June 30, 1977.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: July 11, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is July 11, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA: Second Agricultural Credit Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identified:                         August 1976.
(b)  Project prepared by:                        Vojvodijanska Banka (VB) with
assistance of Participating
Banks (PBs) and Provincial
and Republican Secretariats
of Agriculture
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:             September 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:        September/October 1976
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:             November 15, 1976.
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                 May 27, 1977.
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:              November 15, 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) As a condition of effectiveness, VB and each of the PBs to conclude
between themselves the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement Sec-
tion 7.01(i); para 55 this Report);
(b) As a condition of effectiveness, VB and each of the PBs to apply, to
their domestic resources made available to investment projects, in-
terest rates differentiated sectorally as follows: floor rates of
5 percent for lending to individual farmers and 6 percent for the
social sector enterprises (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.06 and 7.01(ii);
para 57 this Report);
(c) As a condition of effectiveness, VB to secure for itself appropriate
assistance in preparing a set of monitoring procedures acceptable to
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.04(b) and 7.01(iii); para 64 this
Report);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) The Federal Government to carry the foreign exchange risk on sub-loans
made by VB and PBs to individual farmers (Guaranteee Agreement, Section
3.05; para 59 this Report);
(e) The Federal Government to ensure that the Federal Coordination Commit-
tee for Agriculture continues to perform its coordination role with
respect of the proposed and first projects (Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.03; para 49 this Report);
(f) The Federal Government to ensure that the Association of Yugoslav Banks
takes all appropriate action to undertake an interest rate study under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Guarantee Agreement, Sec-
tion 3.04; para 37 this Report);
(g) At least 50 percent of the processing capacities of sub-projects to be
used to handle individual farmer production (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5,
2. (B)(i)(b); para 44 this Report);
(h) The Project Operations Department within VB to continue to operate,
remain adequately staffed and receive a procurement specialist (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(a); para 52 this Report);
(i) Regional and sectoral allocations of the credit to be provided and as
agreed by the Republics and Provinces to be enforced by VB in Vojvodina
and by the PBs in each of the other seven Republics and Province (Loan
Agreement, Section 1; Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03; para 54 this
Report);
(j) Terms of sub-loans to be related to the cash flow projections of the
investments (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, 3.(C); para 56 this Report);
(k) VB and PBs to ensure that sub-projects are technically and financially
sound; sub-projects having an investment cost below US$1.0 million to be
approved by the appropriate PB; all sub-projects above this level to be
referred to VB for review and approval; sub-projects costing more than
US$1.5 million to be submitted by VB to the Bank for approval; Bank to
review and approve the appraisal of cattle fattening sub-projects (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, 2.(C); para 58 this Report).






f~ ~ ~~~~O       10            olO v001 OIUl                                 oOlv       oOIwelo*Jr=e  n  oo  -  eo  bi eoNlwal
3 03A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oop ' 0 00nO
VtI   N V   I V f S  N  0 1  0  0   0                    0  .  S UhO
tsril33A3D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   0 ,_-  on!a 2D /g lN o o  no  no  onh LI  0ln  _______
~~j10,0~~#                                        0~                            000000,0 A4' 
0 E 0 3 N 3 1 N 0 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnl ----~Z ~    0
'0,      0010000111  001010 ,  /                            I 'OllnoOA Is onvA9                o
_.j~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~ IV 5,  3  D                                               NltsSnNnnlNtSvIN_=
i) vDlWn i INVZlunynw \sMsoves 0 8 S                        A V I ..0  V  5             0   00010
3                     A 0  -                 I A                  30000 3  -nlZ 000311N 0010
3111V:> aN                                                                0,000110
<          '/-NS 'OkkV01     r-' ~' H{o /U ?-               100}  ,1100  000 NV  051100000 000000 ISV   00Nn31110 0000SA1010 A 111
110U3a1rM   '3111V)  Q7ad33HS   2  3 3 m n   1   \ < d '  A   CNJ   lVU3N30 3811 NV310U113 SlilN10gd ONV s0Nv1100000011  010000 01100000000 00010000i110 -  -
OOH CINV 193 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
<~~~    ~~~ 3 34\ anAoswi-s'SN1O                  D      A1           avHnodluin                l
96e11 P 8-b1
3111V~~~~~~~~~~11   o~
N IO OA              m~~~~~~~~~~000000 ,-l  ;~  > If~  ,(   ~ 1
% ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~0000~-. 1'ho,
I I A I I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l001
.0-.000J                                   .  j         VI?jISflVA  0 E NnHin4
oon  oOI  001    0,  0000  -.70        oSI       000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1AN



