Report No. 1537a-YU                                                            FILE 1. PY
Yugoslavia: Appraisal of a
Second Agricultural Credit Project
June 13, 1977
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1         =  Dinars (Din) 18.0
Din 1         =  US$ 0.055
Din 1,000,000 = US$ 55,556
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)            =   2.20 pounds
1 metric ton               =   1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton               =   0.98 long ton
1 centimeter (cm)              0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                =   1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)             -   2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                     0 o.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
BB    =   Beogradska Banka (Belgrade)
IBT   =   Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP   =   Kosovska Banka Pristina
LB    =   Ljubljanska Banka (ljubljana)
PBS   =   Privredna Banka Sara,jevo
PB(s) =   Participating Bank(s)
SAS   =   Social Accounting Service
SBS   =   Stopanska Banka Skopje
SFRY  =   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
UBZ   =   Udruzena Banka Zagreb
VB    =   Bank of Vojvodina
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........ . . . . . . . . . . . .   ..........".-.0.-..    i-i
I.    INTRODUCTION  .....           ........ft.............f-..ft*                           1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ..oo ...  oo ................                                 1
III.    AGRICULTURAL CREDIT  . ....... .. .. ..   - ..                 . .  .......... .        6
Ao    General  9o.....   o.o*-                    ..o- ..... oo....                   6
B.    The Banking  System  ..... *****.***-..-**..... 00..            .               7
C.    Vojvodjanska Banka  ....**.o o.*o.*..o.......            ......... ..8
D.    The Participating Banks  ......              o.o.... .............              9
E.    Creditworthiness of  the Banks  ..oo                   ..........              10
IV.    PERFORMANCE UNDER THE FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT.                              11
V.    THE PROJECT  ....o. ...  o---.ov*..... ... o....o..........                          11
wA.    Objectives *....... .o.".-s                 ...... *- @@@.. *.-* ...... @@@ .   @.-.. 11
Bo    Detailed Features  . ..... . . . .  .......... ........ .    -. . . . . ....   12
C.    Cost Estimates  .....o...... .... .... ...... o.........................       15
D.    Financing                                       ............... ..             16
E.    Procurement  .... .. ...... . . .  ......... ...... .... ......... ....        17
Fo    Disbursements           f tf..... f fftt...f.tf........ tftftftftftftftftftftf.. tt...f..t  19
G.    Environmental  Impact  ....               ... . . .. . ...... ..o.. ....       19
VI.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   f....t   ft .. f...........          t ot ft f   ft ft..o ....   19
A.    Organization  ...... f.t-ft ft ft ft ft t fttt tttttt........ f t  .... f.....t f ..t  19
B.    Policies and Procedures of Project's  Sublending  ...                          20
C.    Project Monitoring  .... .. o.... .................                            24
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .f..f..tftftfftftfft.....................................    25
A.    Production, Markets and Prices  o.o ... .0   ....... ....                      25
Bo    Financial Benefits  .... . o .... .oo ......... ft ft f.t...ftft..             26
Co    Economic Benefits    ..    . . . . . . . . . . . . .....ft.....ft.... f..   .... .  26
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .............oo..                              28
This document has a rotricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Sector
2.   Financial and Institutional Aspects
3.   Fruit and Vegetable Production Component
4.   Livestock Component
5.   Agroindustries Component
6.   Distribution of Project Funds by Category, Republic or Province
7.   Project Financing Cash Flow Statement
8.   Estimated Schedule of  IBRD Disbursement
9.   Economic Rate of Return of the Project
MAPS



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed Project, the Bank's Second Agricultural Credit Project,
covering all of Yugoslavia aims to raise productivity and incomes in the in-
dividual farmer sector, increase utilization or processing capacities in the
social sector, and contribute to institution building in the participating
banks (PBs) by improving their project preparation, appraisal and administra-
tion techniques.
ii.       Although agriculture's role has been declining relatively with
rapid industrialization, it still remains an important sector in Yugoslavia's
economic development. Almost 35% of the population still lives in rural
areas. Agriculture accounts for 16% of the social product, constitutes
roughly 8% of total commodity exports, with livestock, meat, fruit and vege-
table accounting for about two thirds of agricultural exports, and employs
about 42% of the labor force. The social product in agriculture increased
at an average rate of 2.7% per year during 1971-75, with the social sector
output increasing annually at 5.6%, and the individual farmer sector at 1.9%.
Agricultural production fluctuates heavily with weather conditions, and its
growth has not kept pace with consumption growth. The major constraints to
further agricultural development in the social sector are the lack of capital
to develop the scarce available land and to expand and modernize its outdated
processing facilities. The individual farmer sector's main constraints are
lack of capital and credit facilities for on-farm mechanization and purchase
of better quality breeds and fertilizers, and inadequate extension services
for farmers not participating in cooperative arrangements with the social
sector. The Agricultural Development Plan in recognizing this gives priority
to large investments in the problem areas and emphasizes cooperation between
the social and individual farmer sectors. The proposed project is part of the
Plan's development program. It is in line with the Bank's lending strategy
for the agricultural sector in aiming at production growth, and support
for individual farmers.
iii.      The Project would provide funds during the three year period to
finance investments in fruit and vegetable growing, and livestock development
in the private sector, and cold storage, grain drying facilities, fruit and
vegetable processing plants, dairy and milk collection facilities, meat and
broiler processing plants in the social sector.
iv.       The Project would cost Din 4.1 billion (US$231.0 million) of which
32% or Din 1.3 billion (US$75.0 million) would be foreign exchange and would
be financed by the Bank loan. Vojvodjanska Banka (VB), the Borrower, and
the other PBs would finance Din 1.9 billion (US$106.0 million), and the
Project beneficiaries Din 0.9 billion (US$50.0 million) of the total Project
costs.



- ii -
v.        VB would channel the loan proceeds to a PB in each Republic and
Province at the Bank prevailing rate at Board presentation, with a repayment
period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace. VB would receive a commission
of 1% on disbursements. VB would implement directly the Project investment in
Vojvodina. The individual farmer subborrowers as well as social sector enter-
prises would benefit from subloans up to ten years. The interest rate on Bank
loan proceeds would be at 11% while the rates on local funds would be not less
than 5% and 6% for individual farmers and social sector enterprises respectively.
vi.       Procurement would be done by the subborrowers under the supervision
of the VB and the PBs. Procurement of items for fruit and vegetable produc-
tion, livestock and land development, as well as minor civil works and equip-
ment for processing facilities involving contracts not exceeding an amount
equivalent to US$100,000, would be made through existing commercial channels,
or through local bidding procedures already determined to be satisfactory to
the Bank. All other items related mainly to processing facilities and involv-
ing contracts in excess of US$100,000, equivalent, would be procured through
international competitive bidding according to Bank guidelines.
vii.      The Project would contribute to the production target outlined in
the Plan for 1976-1980. While the Project's incremental production would
largely be marketed domestically, total net foreign exchange earnings or
savings over the project's 20 year lifetime would amount to about US$400
million. The Project would generate about 10,200 new permanent employment
opportunities and reduce underemployment for about 16,800 farmers. An addi-
tional 40,000 farmers are expected to benefit from access to agroindustrial
facilities constructed under the Project. About 60% of Project beneficiaries
will include farmers in the rural target group. The overall economic rate
of return of the Project investments, including administrative and training
expenses would be about 22%.
viii.     With the indicated agreements in Chapter VIII of the Report, the
Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$75.0 million, for a term
of 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has
requested a Bank loan for financing a second agricultural credit project in-
cluding investments in fruit and vegetable growing and livestock development
in the individual farmer sector and cold storages, grain drying facilities,
fruit and vegetable processing plans, dairy and milk collection facilities and
meat and broiler processing plants in the social sector. The Project would
include all republics and provinces of Yugoslavia. Its objectives, which
are in line with the federal Social Plan for 1976-1980 and with the Agricul-
tural Development Plan, aim to raise productivity and incomes in the individ-
ual farmer sector, increase utilization or processing capacities in the social
sector, and contribute to institution building in the participating banks by
improving their project preparation, appraisal and administrative techniques.
The Project places priority on lending to the less developed regions of
Yugoslavia, in according them 50% of Project financing, concentrates its
resources for the assistance of small individual farmers and integrates
production programs of individual farmer and social sectors by financing
agroindustries servicing primarily individual farmer sector production.
1.02      The Project would represent the sixth Bank loan for agriculture and
agroindustries in Yugoslavia, following the first Agroindustries Project in
Macedonia (894 YU) in 1973, the first Agricultural Credit Project (1128 YU)
in 1975, the Metohija Multipurpose Project (1360 YU) and the two Agriculture
and Agroindustries Projects in Macedonia (1371 YU) and Montenegro (1370 YU)
in 1976. The proposed Project was identified in August 1976 by a World Bank
mission, and was subsequently prepared by Vojvodjanska Banka with the assis-
tance of the World Bank, the Federal Committee for Agriculture, other banks
participating in the First Agricultural Credit Project and the Agricultural
Secretariats in the respective Republics and Provinces.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
November/December 1976, consisting of Messrs. Merghoub, Von Pischke, von
Pogrell, von Klaudy, Wolffelt (Bank) and Mr. Simeon (FAO/IBRD CP).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01      Agriculture in the Economy.  In Yugoslavia almost 35% of the popula-
tion still lives in rural areas. Agriculture accounts for 16% of the social
product, constitutes roughly 8% of total commodity exports and employs about
42% of the labor force of Yugoslavia. Though its role has been declining
relatively with rapid industrialization, it still remains a sector of basic
importance in the overall development of the economy. The social product in
agriculture increased at an average rate of 2.7% per year during 1971-75, with



- 2 -
the social sector output increasing at about 5.6% per year and the private
sector at about 1.8% per year. Average per capita income in agriculture
amounts to about 41% of that in the rest of the economy in 1975.
2.02      Organization of the Agricultural Sector.  One of the important
characteristic features of Yugoslav agriculture is the separate existence of
two sectors i.e. social and individual with different farm structures. The
social sector has its origin in the postwar collectivization policy, and
received further impetus by the Agrarian Reform of 1953, which limited the
size of private or individual holding to 10 ha of cultivable land or 25 ha
of forest land, and brought 276,000 ha of additional land under the social
sector. Since then, the land resources of the social sector have almost
doubled due to reclamation, purchase and lease from private holders. The
social sector in 1975 held 15% of the cultivated land, employed 5% of total
agricultural manpower, produced 26% of the agricultural product and 46% of the
market production. In 1975 there were 2,363 social sector holdings averaging
1,063 ha of cultivated area per holding. The social sector absorbed more than
two third of the gross fixed investment in agriculture in the post war period.
The capital intensity of the investments increased from Din 1,136 per ha (1972
prices) in 1966 to over Din 4,000 per ha in 1975 while the number of trained
workers increased by 56% and the number of permanent workers decreased by 34%.
At the same time the volume of production in the sector increased by about 50%.
The main constraint to further development of the social sector agriculture is
the lack of capital to develop the scarce available land and to expand and
modernize its outdated processing facilities.
2.03      The individual farmer sector comprises about 2.6 million small
peasant holdings of an average size of 4.0 ha. It has about 94% of total
agricultural population and 85% of cultivated land. The productivity in the
individual farmer sector is significantly lower than in the social sector.
Incomes of social sector farm workers average several times those of individ-
ual farmers, the social product per worker at 1975 prices in the individual
farmer sector is only 24% of the same social product in the social sector,
and investments per ha in the private sector is only 11.7% of the investment
per ha in the social sector in 1973. The main reasons for these differences
are (a) lack of capital, (b) lack of credit facilities for the purchase of
better quality seeds and breeds, fertilizers and machinery, (c) lack of exten-
sion services, and (d) overall lower quality of land. About one-third of the
rural population is estimated to be in the relative poverty target group with
incomes per family member of less than Din 6,138 (US$341) per year (para 7.10).
2.04      The individual farmer and social sectors are for the most part com-
plementary rather than competitive. Labor intensive crops, such as vegetables
and tobacco, are almost exclusively produced by individual farmers, who in
addition own 97% of the sheep and 95% of the cattle herds. Cooperation between
the sectors takes the form of trade in input and output, provision of services
by the social sector such as supply of fertilizers, harvesting, cultivation,
marketing and credit and the contracting of joint production. The social
sector also provides most of the extension service available in Yugoslavia.
Government intends to expand cooperation among farmers and between farmers and
social sector organizations to increase productivity in the individual farmer



sector. Such cooperation would enhance modernization of small farms and
mobilize more resources for investments in that sector. The Republics and
Provinces have agreed to support cooperative arrangements through provision
of financing, and interest rate and tax policies. They also agreed to pass
legislation that would allow cooperating farmers to join the health and social
insurance pension schemes of social sector organizations.
2.05      Marketing, Prices and Taxes.  In Yugoslavia there are "official"
social markets for all agricultural products with authorized purchases and
sales, and "informal" markets based on peasant market places for other products.
The value of authorized purchases amounts to 40-50% of total agricultural
product at present; the rest is either consumed by the agricultural population
or sold on peasant markets. There is large regional variation in the relative
importance of authorized market production. Likewise, in the case of indus-
trial crops such as tobacco, sugarbeet, sunflower, total authorized marketed
production is more than 70% of total production while in the case of vegetables
it is only 10%.
2.06      Three types of pricing arrangements are used in Yugoslavia according
to the technical difficulties in the implementation of price policy on various
markets.   These are:
(a) Guaranteed minimum prices by Government applied for all important
agricultural goods (cereals, meat, wool) for which the implementa-
tion of a price guarantee is technically possible;
(b) Minimum prices - without guarantee of the Government - prescribed
mainly for those agricultural goods which need processing such as
milk, sugarbeet and other industrial crops; and
(c) Prices free from intervention, for goods which are marketed mainly
on peasant markets or are highly perishable, so that effective
price control is practically impossible.
2.07      Intervention through official pricing has not greatly affected price
distortions in produce markets because of its limited scope. In addition to
this pricing system, the Government, through federal or local budgets provides
premiums to the producers of basic commodities. These bonuses of 4-5% of the
minimum prices, are in the case of the social sector reserved to finance invest-
ment programs. Taxes on agriculture are limited to income and turnover taxes
in the social sector, and land tax, according to the cadastral value of the
land, in the individual farmer sector. The income tax is generally calculated
proportionally to the income earned. Its rates differ from republic to
republic (0.8% to 13%), and are in Serbia and Kosovo progressive to the level
of income. The land tax rates vary between 20% in Bosnia-Herzegovina and 9.5%
in Croatia of the estimated annual income earned from the land.
2.08      Policy Making in Agriculture.  At the federal level, coordination of
agricultural policies is achieved by the Federal Chamber of Economy and the
Federal Committee for Agriculture. Responsibility for agricultural policy
implementation lies with the Republic Secretariats for Agriculture and is
coordinated at the Federal level. While these institutions set the framework
and kombinats and cooperatives design and implement the actual production



- 4 -
plans. The kombinats and the cooperatives are an effective medium for policy
implementation regarding production and investments, since they have a virtual
monopoly of technicians and management skills.
2.09      Development Strategy and Priorities.  The overall performance of
the agricultural sector in the Plan period 1971-1975 was better than under the
previous plan. Actual growth of total production was 2.7% on average compared
to the projected 3.5%, and the 2.1% realized under the previous social plan.
The individual farmer sector in particular lagged behind - despite its pro-
ductivity gains - realizing only 1.8% annual growth compared to 3.0% in the
Plan. This trend is the result of various aspects of investment, production
and distribution patterns which favor the social sector (paras 2.02-2.03).
In 1973 as a result of Government discussions on agriculture development the
Republics and Autonomous Provinces approved a common Agreement on the Long-
Term Development Policy for Agriculture (Agricultural Development Plan). This
Agreement reflects the realization among political and economic authorities
that increasing food production requires the cooperation of small farmers.
The Agricultural Development Plan's basic objective is to raise production
to meet expected domestic needs and allow for some exports. It emphasizes:
(a) further development of the social sector through modernization of produc-
tion techniques, expansion of processing facilities, better utilization of
available resources and the adjustment of production to changes in demand; and
(b) development of individual farms primarily through cooperation with the
social sector. The Plan's objectives, revised in 1976, are now 4% per annum
agricultural production growth for the period 1976-1980, with the social sector
expected to grow at 8% and the individual farmer sector at 3%. Within the
field of livestock production, the Plan gives high priority to cattle breeding
in both the individual and social sectors. The production of beef is largely
intended for exports, and, accordingly, quality improvement is emphasized;
milk and milk products are expected to be consumed domestically. The Plan
stresses the need for technical and organizational improvements in the collec-
tion and processing of milk, particularly from the private sector. Emphasis
is also given to increased sheep production in mountainous and generally poor
areas. The production of wheat and lye is projected to develop in line with
domestic need, including the formation and maintenance of an adequate level of
reserves. Production of feed grains, particularly corn, is planned to increase
to meet the growing needs of dairy and meat production. Concommitantly, a
significant expansion in storage and drying facilities will become necessary.
The production of vegetables, fruits and grapes is planned to increase in line
with rising living standards at home and increasing export possibilities. The
Mediterranean climate zone, where winter and early spring vegetables can be
grown, should provide the bulk for exports.
2.10      The Plan considers the development of efficient food processing
industries essential to agricultural development and the improvement of product
quality. With rising standards of living domestic demand is expected to shift
increasingly to higher quality and processed products.
2.11      To achieve its objectives the Plan focusses on price policies,
investment policies and cooperation between the social and individual farmer
sectors. The Government intends to continue through interventionist sales
and purchases to keep market prices within 10-15% of minimum prices as agreed



- 5 -
between the producers and the marketing enterprises. It intends also to
develop the system of premiums for basic commodities (cereals, milk, indus-
trial crops) to boost their production. Special incentives are foreseen
to encourage mobilization of enterprises' own resources, such as income tax
exemption for investments in agriculture; turnover tax exemption and interest
rate subsidies for investment credits to agriculture; reduction of import
duties on agroindustry equipment not produced in Yugoslavia; elimination
of Dinar deposit requirements 1/ with the National Bank for foreign credits
channelled into agricultural investments; and increase in the foreign exchange
retention quota for depreciation charges 2/. On the basis of preliminary dis-
cussions within Government at Federal and Republic levels it is expected that
the total investment for the Plan period would amount to Din 75 billion (US$4.2
billion) in 1975 prices of which the social sector would invest Din 53 billion
and the individual farmer sector Din 22 billion. About 20% of the required
financing is expected to be provided by enterprises or investors' own resources,
40% to be provided by Government and 40% by the Banking system of which about
10-20% are from foreign sources.
2.12      The Agricultural Development Plan, for the first time in Yugoslavia's
postwar development, provides a comprehensive guideline for the development of
agriculture, encompassing both the social and the individual farmer sector. In
recognizing the potential of the individual sector and explicitly supporting
its development, the Plan is a big step towards better resource utilization
and more even income distribution. However, in limiting its support only to
farmers that either form a cooperative or cooperate in some way with the social
sector, the Plan will not reach a substantial portion of the agricultural popu-
lation, notably the smaller farmers and those in the mountainous and infertile
areas.  The Plan's projected growth rate for the social sector (8%) seems
to be optimistic as the Plan fails to recognize that the declining growth
rates in the sector since 1965-66 is not accidental. It indicates a change
in the growth pattern since the social sector with the land and technology
available at present is approaching the level of development where production
increases become more difficult. Because of the two limiting factors growth
of primary production in the social sector is unlikely to exceed 4% per annum
in the next five years. On the other hand the planned annual growth rate of
3% for the individual farmer sector seems achievable. It implies, however, a
growing income discrepancy between the sectors unless the labor force in the
individual farmer sector decreases by about 5%. It is unlikely that migration
of such magnitude would take place. Individual farmers would continue to seek
to increase their incomes through off-farm employment and renting of additional
land to increase their farm size.
1/   Enterprises and banks borrowing abroad are required to deposit a certain
percentage of the foreign credit in dinars with the National Bank with-
out earning interest.
2/   Enterprises are entitled to retain in foreign exchange 10% of the annual
depreciation charges.



- 6 -
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. General
3.01      Total Yugoslav agricultural investments in fixed assets and invento-
ries amounted to about Din 6.9 billion annually in the 1971-1975 Plan period,
of which approximately 20% was financed by investors' own funds: 40% by banks
and 40% by budgetary resources.
3.02      Yugoslav enterprises are heavily indebted.  Relative to market eco-
nomy financial practice, liquidity and reinvestment levels are repressed in
Yugoslavia. Factors responsible for this position appear to include: (1) a
relative de-emphais on profit making as an enterprise goal (2) a relatively
greater emphasis on distribution of accounting profits which are shared and
distributed, under the self-management system, by enterprise employees; (3)
a relatively soft approach to financial discipline; and (4) a philosophy of
finance which de-emphasizes problems of risk and does not distinguish strongly
between equity and debt capital in terms of risk taking. The result is that
enterprises have frequently not been in a position to meet the scheduled
demands of creditors, which has resulted in loan rescheduling by banks and
financial reorganization of enterprises, generally by merger, as liquidation
is uncommon.
3.03      Yugoslavia's interest rate policy should be seen in the political
and economic context of the country's socialist self-management system. Under
the present decentralized system, factor prices are beginning to play an in-
creasing role in resource allocation, although the trend toward higher and
more realistic interest rates is delayed by non-economic factors. The coop-
erative basis of the banking structure, where the borrowers are at the same
time the bank's major shareholders (founders) and hence the formulators of
interest rate structures, has contributed to relatively low interest rates.
Furthermore, federal, state and comaunal funds are provided at low cost or
used to subsidize interest rates. Yugoslav authorities consider low interest
rates on investment credits an important policy instrument for development
purposes, especially in the less developed regions and in the agricultural
sector. Also, provisions for bad debts are low as they reflect the partic-
ular relationship between banks and their major borrowers.
3.04      The interest rate structure is approximately as follows:
Deposits (depending upon notice)                            2 to 10%
Short-Term Loans                                           11 to 12%
Commercial Long-Term Loans                                  8 to 12%
Investment Loans from the Federal Fund for Development   3 to 7%
Investment Loans to Agriculture                             3 to 12%



- 7 -
Rates on loans and deposits are fixed each year by the Assembly of Founders
of each bank and vary across the country.
3.05      Present interst rates often yield low or negative real rates which
contribute to a permanent excess demand for investable resources and to the
over capitalization of new investments.  Another result of the excess demand
for capital has been the above-mentioned inability of enterprises to meet
financial obligations on schedule. 1/
3.06      In general, credit is provided to an individual farmer through a
social sector organization with which he has a cooperation agreement (Annex 2,
paras 26-31). This mechanism appears to offer considerable scope for in-
creasing rural incomes, and increasing small farmer access to markets is
a key Project's focus. Individual farmers may also obtain credit directly
from the banks, usually on less favorable terms.
B. The Banking System
3.07      The Basic Economic Report 2/ explains in detail the development of
the Yugoslav Banking System since 1947, and the legal, financial and operational
framework within which banks operate is described in Annex 2. Banks are owned
and controlled by the enterprises (founders) of the region where they operate,
who are also major borrowers from the banks. The organization, ownership,
operations, functions and powers of the banks' management organs and branches
are governed by the statutes and the self-management agreements of each bank.
In addition to its statutes, each bank operates according to an annual
"Business Policy" which implies preparing, against the background of the Five-
Year Plan, a program statement about the Bank's main objectives, magnitude of
operations and interest rates structure. The system appears in general to
work satisfactorily, providing coordination between the investment plans of
enterprises and availability of resources according to priorities as outlined
by the Plan. The banks provide finance for investments according to the Plan
and in particular for agricultural investments according to the priorities
established by the Agricultural Development Plan.
3.08      During the project implementation period the Yugoslav banking
structure will be undergoing a reorganization designed to ensure that the
banks remain responsive to the financial demands of their founders and not
evolve as independent decision making units. The reorganization, based on
a new banking law scheduled for implementation over several years beginning
in 1977, does not represent a departure from the previous approach to the
role of banks, but rather enhances the application of principles which are
fundamental to the Yugoslav view of finance.
1/   See IBRD, The Economic Development of Yugoslavia, Report No. 194a-YU,
November 26, 1973, pp. 285-287.
2/   See IBRD, The Economic Development of Yugoslavia, Report No. 194a-YU,
November 26, 1973, pp. 242-275.



- 8 -
C. Vojvodjanska Banka (Annex 2)
3.09      Vojvodjanska Banka (VB) has served as the apex bank under the First
Project, and it will perform the same role under this project. It is deeply
involved with the agricultural and agro-industrial sector in Vojvodina
Province. VB has its head office in Novi Sad, and its branch network covers
Vojvodina Province, Belgrade and Zagreb. Its head office staff exceeds 225
in number.
3.10      VB's Business Policy and other decisions of its Founders Assembly
guide its operations each year. Investment proposals that enterprises submit
to VB for financing are appraised and approved in a branch office, or in the
head office, depending on the size or complexity of the loans. VB's exposure
or the exposure of any of its branches to a single client should not exceed
30% of total outstanding loans, and no one borrower accounts for more than
10% of its total portfolio. VB operates as a mixed commercial/investment bank
and is authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Supervision of loans, with
regard to borrowers' financial positions and procurement arrangements, is
satisfactory, but could usefully be expanded to include more areas of dialogue
with borrowers. Disbursement procedures are sound.
3.11      VB's staff involved with the First Project have gained experience
in project appraisal methods and have been instrumental in securing more wide-
spread familiarity with these methods throughout Yugoslavia. Continued insti-
tution building activities aimed at appraisal methodology and procurement will
be carried out under this Project.
3.12      The income statement of VB appears in Annex 2, Table 2.  Like other
Yugoslav banks, VB is owned by its founders-borrowers and does not consider
profitability an essential measure of its efficiency and financial performance.
VB has reported positive and growing net earnings in recent years. Income and
expenditure figures are consistent with good administrative control.
3.13      The balance sheet of VB is in Annex 2, Table 1.  VB's assets are
virtually all connected with its banking business, and these have grown
rapidly in recent years. The short term (up'to two years) loan portfolio is
slightly inferior in size to the long term (greater than two years) loan port-
folio, while current liabilities comprise roughly half of total footings.
3.14      VB's forecasts of its financial position indicate increasing profit-
ability and increasing liquidity.
3.15      In accordance with Yugoslav accounting practice, financial statements
of banks are not audited but simply certified by the Federal Social Accounting
Service (SDK) (paras. 6.16-6.17, and Annex 2, paras 11-12). Therefore, an
accurate evaluation of the quality of VB's portfolio and the adequacy of its
provisions is difficult. Its founders have unlimited liability toward VB's
obligations, it is closely integrated with the economy of Vojvodina, and its
financial management has been and is expected to remain satisfactory.



- 9 -
D. The Participating Banks 1/
3.16      One bank from each Republic and Autonomous Province will participate
in the project, and VB would function as participating bank for Vojvodina.
The eight banks, which are among the most important in Yugoslavia, account for
70% to 75% of the total assets of Yugoslavia's business banks.
3.17      The PB's organization and management bodies, including head and
branch offices, are similar to that of VB and have similar operating policies.
However, UBZ, the PB for Croatia, is an association of five independent banks
which are jointly liable for UBZ operations. The PBs are already known to the
Bank from the First Project and from other projects.
3.18      The management and the staff of the banks appear generally satisfac-
tory.  In each PB, the unit responsible for handling long term loans to agri-
culture would be responsible for subloans under the Project; in these units
there are agronomists and agricultural engineers in addition to economists,
financial analysts and usually lawyers. These staff seem to be in general
competent. PBs should be able to adequately appraise and process subloans
under the project without undue delays.
3.19      Appraisal procedures are similar in all banks and have been upgraded
under the First Project. All PBs have adequate staff with the necessary back-
ground and experience to be able to improve further their appraisal techniques
with the help of training efforts under the Project (para 6.03). Supervision
of the subborrowers and procurement and disbursement procedures appear satis-
factory. Development of the scope of supervision to include more of an
advisory or consultative role for the banks in their relationships with their
borrowers would be beneficial, and efforts will be made under the Project to
develop the banks' capacities to serve their borrowers on a broader basis
(Annex 2, para 41).
3.20      All PBs are mixed commercial/investment banks and all are authorized
to deal in foreign exchange. PBs' combined total assets in 1975 exceeded
D 350 billion ($19.5 billion), their deposits exceeded Din 200 billion ($11.1
billion) and their total operating income exceeded Din 22 billion ($1.2 bil-
lion). Of all investment credits to agriculture handled by banks in recent
years, PBs have accounted for a disproportionately large share.
3.21      Short term resources are essentially used for short term invest-
ments, but prudent usage for long term investments is also allowed under the
control of the National Bank, and all the banks in the developed regions and
the Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) do so. Short term loan portfolios and
primary reserves account for approximately 20% to 50% of total banking assets
(Annex 2).
1/   More detailed data on the banks from the four less developed regions
can be found in Report 1058-YU: Appraisal of a Second Industrial Credit
Project, May 11, 1976.



- 10 -
3.22      Financial expenses consume the largest part of the total operating
income of PBs, while administrative expenses have amounted to between 6% and
32% of total operating income in recent years. All of the banks report
profitable operations.
3.23      The balance sheets of PBs show relatively little reliance on net
worth as a source of funds. Primary reserves are generally quite small in
relation to deposit liabilities, and portfolios relative to total liabilities
allow little room for losses. The banks in the less developed regions tend
to be the most liquid and the most oriented towards long term lending, as
a result of their access to Federal and Regional Funds to support priority
investments.
3.24      It is difficult to evaluate accurately the quality of the invest-
ment portfolios of the banks and the adequacy of their provisions, since
data is incomplete and not always entirely consistent. However, the Yugoslav
system has a number of devices, in addition to the role of the central bank,
which protect banks against the threat of liquidation as outlined below.
E.   Creditworthiness of the Banks
3.25      Each of the eight banks is considered a suitable vehicle for imple-
mentation of the Project.  Evaluation of their creditworthiness is difficult,
as some of the banks have not yet been audited against the generally accepted
accounting standards. However, the banks are supported by certain institu-
tional arrangements which have provided sufficient arguments for the approval
of Bank loans supporting agricultural, agro-industrial and industrial projects
in the past. These include:
(a) The founders of each bank have unlimited liability for their
bank's obligations. Creditors of a bank thus have legal
recourse to all assets of founders, many of which are large
industrial enterprises.
(b) Each of the participating banks is closely integrated with
the economy of the area in which it conducts the bulk of its
business, and as such its liquidation is highly improbable.
(c) Each of the banks has performed satisfactorily in the past
within the context of Yugoslav banking.
(d) The bulk of the long-term debt of four of the five smallest
banks consists of funds provided for developmental purposes
by the Federal Republic. It is highly unlikely that the
inability of any bank to repay Federal Funds obligations on
schedule would result in forced liquidation, given the pur-
poses of these funds, the intimate link between these banks
and their founders, and the expected role of their founders
in securing the economic advancement of the areas in which
they operate.



- 11 -
IV. PERFORMANCE UNDER THE FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
4.01      Performance under the First Project has been generally satisfactory
and the pace of implementation has accelerated over its life. Effectiveness
occurred on February 12, 1976 and by March 31, 1977, 50% of the US$50 million
IBRD loan under the Project had been committed by the participating banks,
with greatest progress in sublending to the individual sector. The entire
loan is expected to be fully committed in the second half of 1977 with only
minor changes in the allocation of investment as specified at appraisal.
Completion will probably be substantially achieved on schedule by June 30,
1979, the present Closing Date.
4.02      Notable progress has been achieved towards attaining a number of
important objectives defined under the first project. These include the
establishment of a nationwide agricultural system with uniform appraisal
criteria, a particularly notable achievement given the complexity and
diversity of the Yugoslav environment. Institution building has also pro-
gressed remarkably well. All Participating Banks (PBs) now have specific
units concerned with evaluating sub-project proposals and have trained
staff in more effective appraisal/supervision techniques. Vojvodjanska
Banka (VB), the lead bank, has exerted considerable influence in the loan
approval process by the prior training and briefing of those in borrowing
kombinats and in PBs who are directly involved in putting together sub-
project proposals. VB's inputs have included training seminars and dis-
cussions, and the exchange of information on an informal basis with PBs
and sub-borrowers.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
5.01      The Project would provide funds during the three-year investment
period to support the long-term objective of self-sufficiency in and in-
creased exports of those agricultural products for which individual farmer
production is best suited (para 2.04). The Project would help alleviate major
constraints to the further development of livestock and fruit and vegetable
production. It would form part of Yugoslavia's Agricultural Development Plan
and account for about 9.0% of the planned investments during the project's
three-year investment period. It would help achieve the Plan's objectives to
increase production, improve product quality and raise productivity and income,
particularly on private farms.
5.02      The Project places priority on lending to the lesser developed
republics and provinces of Yugoslavia, and compared to the First Project con-
tains an increased emphasis on channeling funds to small individual farmers.
It integrates the lending programs in the individual and the social sectors by
concentrating financing of investments for primary agricultural production in



- 12 -
the individual farmer sector, and reserving the financing of the investments
in social sector to agroindustries directly stimulating private holding pro-
duction. During negotiations assurances were obtained from VB that invest-
ments for agroindustries in the social sector would have at least 50% of their
capacity available for processing or marketing individual farmer produce.
B. Detailed Features
Project Area
5.03      The components financed by the Project would be located throughout
Yugoslavia taking into consideration the less developed Republics and Pro-
vinces as well as the less developed regions of the more developed Republics
and Provinces. While the individual farmer sector has been relatively neg-
lected in the past, it would receive, under the Project, 57% of the loan
proceeds as compared to 43% under the First Agricultural Credit Project.
Regional and sectoral allocations were agreed upon by the Republics and Pro-
vinces taking into account the agricultural development priorities, regional
income and sectoral distribution objectives and will be enforced by VB and the
PBs. During negotiations assurances were obtained that it will be enforce
the regional and sectoral distribution of the Bank loan as shown in Annex 6.
Vegetable Production
5.04      Subloans would be provided to individual farmers to develop about
2,200 ha for labor intensive mixed vegetable production and about 40 ha of
plastic greenhouses for early vegetable production (Annex 3). The Project for
mixed vegetable production would finance pumps, pipes, wells and other equip-
ment to construct small scale on-farm irrigation systems. It would also
include the purchase of motor cultivators and implements such as trailers,
ploughs tillers and sprayers. For construction of plastic houses the Project
would provide for tubing, plastic covering and other items. Increased vege-
table production would mainly supply the domestic market. Some early and
processed vegetables would be exported.
Fruit Production
5.05      Subloans would be provided in the Project to private farmers for
development of about 6,500 ha of orchards including 10% of soft fruit plant-
ings and of about 1,500 ha of vineyards of which 500 ha would be mainly table
grapes (Annex 3). Included would be production of fruits for which there
exists strong domestic or export demand, such as raspberries, cherries,
peaches, apples and grapes. Investment would include planting materials,
fertilizers, land preparation and small motor cultivators for transport,
tillage, and spraying. To avoid overplanting of vineyards which might result
in overproduction of wine, the Project would restrict its financing of wine
vineyards to replacement of old vineyards.



- 13 -
Land Development
5.06      Subloans would be provided in the Project to individual farmers to
finance about 5,500 ha of Land Development (Annex 3). Investment would be
for clearing land, land levelling, drainage, access roads and consolidation
of land. Included would be surveying to establish boundaries, machine ser-
vices, fertilizers and consolidation of small parcels into larger plots to
increase productivity through better land utilization. The works would most
probably be undertaken within the framework of a larger land development
scheme of the social sector. The Project would finance part of the works
or the facilities which are deemed to service small farms.
Livestock Production
5.07      The Project would finance livestock farms in all the republics and
provinces. The typical investments are described in Annex 4. They include
construction of cattle stables, pig barns, sheep barns, poultry houses, silo
and slurry pits, the purchase of heifers, ewes and rams and equipment, includ-
ing tractor and implements, silo combines, milking machines and other farm
equipment.
5.08      Dairy Farms.  This is one of the major components of the Project
(23.0%) which would help achieve one of the Plan priority objectives of self-
sufficiency in milk production. The Project would provide for the purchase
of about 11,200 in-calf heifers and dairy cows, primarily Simmenthal and
Freisian breeds, of which about 5,600 head would be imported. Calves would
be sold at about 10 months of age after they have reached a weight of about
320 kg. Culled cows would be replaced annually by farmers own production
of heifers. Semen from Government artificial insemination centers would be
used for breeding. About 2,950 farmers would be financed under the Project.
5.09      Cattle Fattening Farms.  The Project would provide for construc-
tion of fattening barns equipped with drinkers and feeders, silos, and farm
machinery for feed production. About 500 farmers would be financed under the
Project. Feeder calves would be purchased at about 220 kg and after feeding
for about 180 days, they would be sold at 450 kg. Feed would consist of
sillage produced by the farmers, and formulated concentrate mixture provided
by the kombinats or the cooperatives. About 30% of the production would be
for export. Because of the volatility of the beef export market each sub-
project consisting of bulked investment plans of several individual farmers,
wou'ld have to provide a detailed market analysis and would have to be approved
by the Bank prior to its financing. It is estimated that at least fifty in-
dividual farmers would be included in each subproject proposed by the kombinat
receiving project funds.
5.10      Pig Fattening Farms.  The Project would develop pig production in
Serbia and Vojvodina. The investments financed include pig barns, feeders
and drinkers and other farm equipment. Kombinats or cooperatives which would
be purchasing fattened animals from the farmers, would supply them with pig-
lets and mixed feed on credit and would provide them with veterinary services
and other technical advice. About 800 farmers would be financed under the
Project. The total pork production is expected to be consumed locally.



- 14 -
5.11      Sheep Breeding and Fattening Farms.  The investments under this
component would include construction of winter housing and feeding facilities,
farm machinery including tractors in the case of sheep fattening farms, pas-
ture improvement to extend the grass season and increase hay production for
winter feeding and breeding stocks of which about 50% would be imported.
The component aims at increasing the productivity and income of a segment
of farmers living in remote areas of the country, with traditionally little
access to credit and marketing facilities. About 1,500 such farmers would be
financed under the Project.
5.12      Broiler Farms.  This component is a part of a broiler production
project in Kosovo, integrating the production of individual farmers, and pro-
duction and processing of poultry by a kombinat (para 5.15). The investment
would include buildings of the deep litter type, with adequate ventilation and
heating facilities. The kombinat would supply farmers with breeding stocks,
suitable mixed feed on credit, veterinary services and other technical advice,
and the farmers would in return sell their production to the slaughterhouse
operated by the kombinat. Farmers are expected to supply at least 50% of the
raw material needed for the slaughterhouse and the broiler processing facili-
ties of the kombinat (para 5.15). About 1,000 farmers would be financed under
the Project.
Agricultural Industries
5.13      In keeping with government policies, project financing for agro-
industries would focus mainly on milk, meat and fruits and vegetables pro-
cessing, all in the social sector. Following is a summary of the projected
subloans in each category; details of which are in Annex 5.
5.14      Milk Processing.  The Project would finance about 1,450 milk col-
lecting stations and about 35 insulated milk-tank-trucks to organize milk
collection which is a critical feature in Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo
and Macedonia. Financing would also be available for construction of four
dairy plants and expansion or modernization of about 14 existing plants. All
Republics, excluding Vojvodina Province, would participate. The equivalent
capacity involved would be about 40 million liters per annum (about 4% of
Yugoslavia's total milk production).
5.15      Meat Processing.  The meat processing sectors suffer from outdated
and unhygienic plants. Finance would be provided for expansion or moderniza-
tion of four plants in Bosnia and Herzegovina and three plants in Montenegro.
The equivalent capacity would represent about 3,200 tons of carcass beef pro-
cessed per year. In Kosovo an integrated broiler production and processing
facility would be financed. The complex would produce 2.5 million day old
chicks annually of which 1.5 million would be reared into broilers by the
individual farmer sector (1,000 farmers) and 1 million by the complex itself.
The slaughtering would have a capacity of 2.5 million birds for processing
the production from both sectors.
5.16      Fruit and Vegetable Processing.  This sector would receive the
largest financial support due to the growing popularity of these commodities
in Yugoslavia and the export potential offered by some of the West-European



- 15 -
countries, notably the German Federal Republic. The Project would finance
three cold stores with a combined capacity exceeding 9,000 tons in Serbia.
The cold stores would have adjacent fruit grading and packing facilities. In
addition a total of ten plants would be expanded and/or modernized for produc-
tion of frozen, and pickled vegetables and fruit juices in all of the other
republics and provinces except Croatia. The total capacity of these plants
would exceed 50,000 tons annually. To process the increasing winegrape pro-
duction of Macedonia, a winery of 10 million liters would also be financed
in that Republic.
5.17      Grain Dryers.  About 7 grain dryers of a 30,000 ton/each yearly
throughput would be financed in Vojvodina, the largest cereal producing area
of the Federation.
C. Cost Estimates
5.18      Total Project cost is estimated at Din 4,156 million (US$231 million)
of which 32% or Din 1,350 million (US$75 million) would be foreign exchange.
Details of investment costs are shown in Annexes 3, 4 and 5, and are summarized
below.
5.19      Cost estimates used in the report are based on January 1977 costs.
An average 5.0% physical contingency and an average 20.0% price contingency
have been included in the Project costs to meet expected inflation in foreign
and local costs during the implementation period. Duties and taxes are in-
cluded in total project cost and are estimated to amount to about Din 308
million.



- 16 -
For.
Din Million               US$ Million       Exch.
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   %
Primary Production
Vegetable                      192       78      270       11       4      15   29
Fruit                          371      117      488      20        7      27   24
Land Development                43       28       71        2       2       4   40
Livestock                      972      377   1,349       54       21      75   28
Subtotal                1,578      600   2,178       87       34    121   28
Agroindustries
Cold Stores and
Packing Lines                 95       78      173       6        4      10   45
Fruit and Vegetables
Processing Plants            151      100      251       8        5      13   40
Milk Processing Plants         219      187      406       12      11      23   46
Meat Processing Plants          38       25       63        2        1      3   40
Broiler Prod. and
Processing Plant              44       35       79       2        2       4   45
Winery                          57       31       88        3       2       5   35
Grain Driers                    38       17       55        3       1       4   30
Subtotal                  642     473   1,115        36       26     62   42
Contingency Allowances
Physical (5.0%)                110       52      162        6       3       9   32
Price (20.0%) /a               476      225      701      27       12      39   32
Subtotal                  586     277      863       33       15     48   32
Total Project Cost           2,806   1,350   4,156        156      75    231   32
/a   Calculation of price contingencies is based on applying the following
estimated inflation rates for local and foreign exchange costs of the
Project.
Year            Equipment           Civil Works
1977-79            7.5                  9.0
1980               7.0                  8.0
D. Financing
5.20      The financing plan of the Project is shown below:



- 17 -
Participating
Subborrowers         Banks         IBRD      Total
------------------ Din Million -----------------
Primary Production
Vegetable                           68                177            95        340
Fruit                               123               321           173        617
Land Development                     18                 47           25         90
Livestock                           341                886          477      1,704
Subtotal                      550              1,431           770     2,751
Percent of Subtotal                  20%               52%           28%       100%
Agroindustries
Cold Stores and Packing Lines       54                 74            90        218
Fruit and Vegetable
Processing Plant                  78                106           130        314
Milk Processing Plants              128                172          211        511
Meat Processing Plant                20                 27           32         79
Broiler Prod. and Processing         25                34            41        100
Winery                               28                 38           47        113
Grain Driers                         18                 23           29         70
Subtotal                      351                474           580     1,405
Percent of Subtotal                  25%                34%          41%       100%
Total Project Cost                 901               1,905        1,350      4,156
------------------ US$ Million
Total Project Cost                   50                106           75        231
Percent of Total Project Cost        22%                46%          32%       100%
5.21      The IBRD loan of US$75 million representing the total estimated for-
eign exchange cost of the project, is about 32% of total Project cost. The
loan would be made to VB for 15 years, including three years of grace, for
on-lending to subborrowers through a PB in each Republic and Province (paras.
6.05, 6.06). The Project cash flow (Annex 7) shows that subborrowers' repay-
ments would generate sufficient inflow to repay the IBRD loan within 15 years
and to cover a reasonable degree of slippage in repayment. About 22% of the
total Project cost would be contributed by subborrowers, 46% by the PBs and
32% by IBRD. For the investment in primary production to be undertaken in
the individual sector, 20% of the total Project cost would be contributed by
subborrowers, 52% from the PBs and 28% from the proposed IBRD loan. For the
agroindustrial investments to be undertaken by the social sector enterprises
25% of the investment cost would be contributed by the subborrowers, 34% by
the PBs and the remaining 41% would be provided by the proposed IBRD loan.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the aforesaid conditions.
E. Procurement
5.22      Procurement under the project would be done by subborrowers under
the supervision of VB and PBs. VB would have supervisory responsibilities
for all ICB procurement arrangements organized by the PBs. Assurances were



- 18 -
obtained at negotiations that it would appoint on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, a procurement specialist to the staff of its Project Unit
to assist with all aspects of procurement under the project. The bulking of
small items for procurement under the prescribed procedures will be organized
by the PBs in their respective republics and by VB on an inter-republic basis
when such a possibility appears feasible. The following items relating to
project investments in the social sector would be suitable for international
competitive bidding according to IBRD guidelines: grain driers, fruit and
vegetable grading, packing equipment and cold storages, milk processing
equipment, collecting stations and tank trucks, the integrated broiler facility
and the winery. The integrated broiler facility and the cold stores contracts
would be let on a turnkey basis. Contract tendering for the equipment and
materials agreed upon would be advertised internationally, and Yugoslavian
manufacturers would be allowed a 15% perference margin or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower. It is estimated that items to be procured
under international competitive bidding would total approximately US$50 mil-
lion of which about US$10 million would probably be awarded directly to non-
Yugoslav suppliers.
5.23      Procurement of items for fruit and vegetable production, livestock
and livestock facility and land development on individuals' farms, as well as
minor civil works and equipment for processing facilities involving contracts
of an amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 would be made through
existing commercial channels under negotiated purchase or other procedures as
specified locally. Procurement of all other items, except as noted in para
5.22, would be handled through local competitive bidding procedures already
determined to be satisfactory to the Bank. These items would not be suitable
for bulk purchase and international competitive bidding because of phasing of
subprojects; the dispersion of investors throughout the country; and in cer-
tain cases of expansion and modernization of processing facilities, the advan-
tages of ensuring compatibility with equipment presently in place. Existing
commercial channels, which include domestic and international suppliers, main-
tain generally adequate supplies of spare parts, providing servicing and re-
pair facilities and are suitably competitive. For the contracts procured
under local competitive bidding and exceeding US$250,000 equivalent VB would
furnish the Bank promptly after execution, two confirmed copies of such con-
tracts together with analysis of the respective bids received and recommenda-
tions for award. For the contracts procured under local competitive bidding
exceeding US$100,000 but less than US$250,000 equivalent VB and PBs will: (i)
retain such contracts and will make them available for review by IBRD during
supervision; and (ii) furnish to IBRD a report containing an analysis of bids
and the recommendation and justification for the award including a certifica-
tion that local procurement procedures have been followed. For the contract
procured under local competitive bidding but not exceeding US$100,000 equiva-
lent VB and PBs will retain such contracts for IBRD review during supervision
but will furnish to IBRD along with applications for withdrawals a certifica-
tion that local procurement procedures have been followed. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from VB that it will enforce and cause PBs to enforce
the preceding procurement procedures.



- 19 -
F. Disbursements
5.24      IBRD disbursements would take about 3 years although the entire loan
is expected to be committed by the end of year 2. The annual phasing of invest-
ments and the forecast of quarterly disburements are shown in Annexes 7 and 8.
5.25      Disbursement of the IBRD loan would be made against 35% of subloan
amounts disbursed by VB to the PBs on the account of subloans made for invest-
ments in individual farms, and 55% on the account of subloans made for invest-
ments in social sector (para 5.20). The Bank would disburse against certifi-
cates of expenditure for all subloans. The same procedures would apply for
disbursement by VB to the PBs.
G. Environmental Impact
5.26      The Project is not expected to have significant adverse environ-
mental impact on the Project area.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization
6.01      The institutional structure of the proposed project is identical
to that developed and utilized under the First Agricultural Credit Project,
and the risks of non-performance and implementational difficulties are there-
fore very substantially reduced.
The Federal Coordination Committee (FCC)
6.02      The Federal Coordination Committee coordinates agricultural invest-
ments in Yugoslavia, but has no "line" responsibilities. It was established
under the Agricultural Development Plan. Its members are representatives of
the Secretariats for Agriculture of the Republics and Autonomous Provinces
and of the Federal Government with the Deputy Chairman of the Federal Com-
mittee for Agriculture (i.e., the Ministry of Agriculture) as chairman.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Committee would con-
tinue to perform its coordination role with respect to the Project including
the responsibility for policy questions and reallocation of proceeds of the
loan between Republics and Provinces and sectors, as under the First Project.
6.03      VB's organization, financial condition and operating policies are
adequate for efficient implementation of the Project (paras 3.09-3.15). The
Project Operations Department established in VB under the First Project has
had primary implementational responsibility and has performed satisfactorily.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Department would con-
tinue to operate in VB, that a Procurement Specialist would be added to its
staff, that it would remain adequately staffed and responsible for appraisal



- 20 -
and supervision of all subloans under the First and the Second Projects. With
respect to its own staff, PB staff and the staff of social sector subborrowers,
VB would continue its training role (para 3.19).
6.04      As the borrower and apex bank, VB would be responsible for the repay-
ment of the proposed loan and the proper execution of the Project. It is esti-
mated that the cost of operations of the Project Operations Department would be
about Din 10 million over the three year Project implementation period. VB's
risk on its loans to the PBs is negligible and VB is not expected to make a
profit on its loans to the PBs. To help meet the cost of its operations in
administering the Project, VB would receive a commission of 1% on IBRD funds
disbursed at the time of disbursement. VB's lending rate on its loans to PBs
out of the proceeds of the Bank loan will be identical to the rate at which it
receives funds from IBRD. The grace and repayment period would be such that
each repayment date of the subloan to VB would be three months before the
corresponding repayment date by VB to the Bank. The VB's commitment fee to
the PB's will be 0.75%. These provisions would be covered under the subsi-
diary loan agreement. Assurances to this effect were obtained from VB during
negotiations.
The Participating Banks
6.05      The bank from each Republic and Province included in the First
Project (listed in Annex 2, para 35) would participate under the Project and
VB would function as PB for the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. The banks'
performance under the First Project has been generally satisfactory. A summary
appraisal of the PBs is given in paras 3.21 to 3.24. The PBs, including VB,
would be directly responsible for the execution of the Project in their re-
spective Republic of Province. A PB will normally finance, under the Project,
only subprojects in its respective Republic or Province. Each PB would receive
from VB a subloan out of the proceeds of the Bank loan according to its allo-
cation (para 5.03). The PBs would present appropriate documentation for reim-
bursement of the Bank portion of the subloans to VB for review and submission
to the Bank for disbursements.
6.06      A subsidiary loan agreement will be concluded between each PB and VB
covering the policies and procedures of sublending under the Project, project
related staffing of the PBs, and the arrangements for procurement, disburse-
ment, audit and monitoring. Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement by the
seven PBs under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan. VB, in its function as PB for Vojvodina,
would follow the same sublending, procurement, disbursement, audit and monitor-
ing procedures. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
B. Policies and Procedures of Projects Sublending
Appraisal Criteria of Subprojects
6.07      Subprojects in the individual farmer sector would normally be sub-
mitted to the PBs by social sector enterprises, kombinats or cooperatives which
aggregate investment proposals of several farmers with whom they have entered



- 21 -
into a cooperation agreement and borrow on their behalf. However, individual
farmers may also submit subproject investment proposals directly to a PB.
In appraising subprojects in the individual farmer sector, VB and PBs would
satisfy themselves that:
(a) subprojects are technically feasible, financially viable,
commercially sound and economically justified, and markets
and processing facilities for their incremental production
are available;
(b) subprojects and subborrowers would have adequate debt
capacities in that they would generate sufficient cash flow
to cover debt service after meeting legal claims and appro-
priate reinvestment levels;
(c) adequate and continuing technical assistance, and suitable
prices and market outlets are available to farmers who are
subborrowers.
(d) in the case of lending to individual farmers through social
sector organizations, the cooperation agreements are satis-
factory in all respects.
6.08      In appraising subprojects in the social sector, VB and the PBs
would ensure that:
(a) Subprojects are technically feasible, financially viable,
commercially sound and economically justified, and that
markets and processing facilities for their incremental
production are available;
(b) At least 50% of the processing capacities of subprojects
would be used for individual farmer production;
(c)  subprojects and subborrowers have adequate debt capacity in
that they would generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt
service after meeting legal claims, compulsory allocations to
the enterprise's funds and appropriate reinvestment levels.
Subprojects should achieve attractive financial rates of
return. A particular justification will be required if the
financial rate of return is below 12% in constant Dinars;
(d) Enterprises borrowing for subprojects have a satisfactory
financial structure, especially an adequate debt/equity
ratio of normally less than 3:1. Exceptions may be al-
lowed (based on the financial and economic merit of the
subproject) provided that the enterprise enters into an
agreement with a PB to increase its equity over a suitable
period of time to an acceptable level;



- 22 -
(e)  Appropriate consideration is given to the choice of tech-
nology, with preference accorded to more labor intensive
methods as opposed to capital-intensive, automated tech-
nology; and to the consequences of such a choice on the
investment costs of the subprojects.
Assurances were obtained from VB during negotiations that procedures as
outlined in paras. 6.07 and 6.08 would be followed by VB and the PBs in
appraising subprojects.
The Subloans
6.09      The social sector sub-borrowers would provide a minimum of 25% of
investment costs and individual farmer subborrowers would provide a minimum
of 20% of investment costs, defined to include only incremental investments
in project-supported activities. The PBs would provide the remaining amounts
with the Bank reimbursing them for 55% and 35% of their loans for social
sector subborrowers and individual sector sub-borrowers respectively. Prior
to disbursing the Bank loan, VB would assure the availability of counterpart
funds and subborrowers' contribution for each specific subproject.
6.10      Seasonal credit would be provided by the PBs or the respective com-
mercial banks of subborrowers where appropriate. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that VB would, prior to requesting disbursement of the
Bank Loan, be satisfied that the necessary amount of seasonal credit would
be available for each subproject and that financing plans set forth above in
para 6.09 are adhered to by the PBs and VB.
Lending Terms
6.11      The terms of subloans under the project would be related to the
cash flow projections of the investments (Annexes 3, 4 and 5). Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the following grace periods will not
be exceeded; and that repayment periods on the subloans will not exceed the
following, except as justified by projections of subproject cash flow at the
time the loan commitment is undertaken by a PB.
Maximum Grace               Total Term
Primary Production                  Period                incl. Grace Period
Vegetable Production                   1                           5
Land Development                       2                          10
Fruit Production                       5                          10
Livestock Production                   1                          10
Agroindustries                         3                          10
Interest Rates
6.12      As detailed in Chapter 3, interest rates for investments in agri-
culture vary between 3% and 12%, depending upon the Republic or Province, the
source of funds and the type of investment. These levels of interest rates
and the variations in interest rates between regions, banks, similar invest-
ments and sectors create inefficiencies and inconsistencies in resource allo-
cation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Association of



- 23 -
Yugoslav Banks will take all appropriate action before December 1, 1977 to
undertake a study on interest rate, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. The study will particularly review in depth selected financial
intermediation topics including the role of interest rates. Proposed terms
of reference for such study are in Annex 2 Appendix 2. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that an interest rate reform will be undertaken by
PBs, so that rates on domestic resources loaned under the Project to social
sector subborrowers will be at least 6% and to individual sector subborroers
at least 5%. The lending rate to be applied to the IBRD portion of subproject
finance is 11%. These rates are expected to result in minimum blend rates of
approximately 8.75% and 7.10% for social and individual sector subsectors,
respectively. The rate structure would provide the PBs with a spread of about
2.5-3.0% on the proceeds of the Bank loan and usually at least 1.20% on the
local funds portion of the subloans to cover the banks' administrative costs.
6.13      The foreign exchange risk arrangements agreed upon for the First
Project will continue to apply under the proposed Project. Social sector
subborrowers would carry the full foreign exchange risk with respect to the
portion of subloans financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan for their
own investments. The foreign exchange risk on subloans to individual farmers
would be carried by the Federal Republic. It is also expected that VB and the
PBs would protect themselves against the exchange risk on the foreign exchange
accruing to them from subloan repayments occuring earlier than amortization
payments of the Bank loan. Assurances to this effect were obtained from the
Federal Government and VB during negotiations.
Appraisal Procedures of Subprojects
6.14      Investment proposals would be submitted by enterprises to the PBs
in their Republic or Province. Several investment proposals in the individual
farmer sector would usually be aggregated and submitted by a social sector
organization. Individual farmers may also submit a proposal directly to a PB.
The PBs would apppraise the subprojects according to the criteria set forth
in paras 6.09 and 6.10 and the PBs would register each subproject with VB.
As under the First Project, the following procedures would be applied:
(a) the PBs would approve all subprojects having an investment
cost below US$1 million;
(b) VB would review the appraisal of and approve all subprojects
having an investment cost between US$1 million and US$1.5
million;
(c) the Bank would review the appraisal of and approve all sub-
projects having an investment cost above US$1.5 million.
Apart from the subprojects costing more than US$1.5 million, the Bank would
also review and approve the appraisal of all cattle fattening subprojects
(para 5.09). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these proce-
dures would be followed.



- 24 -
C. Project Monitoring
Audit
6.16      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that VB and all PBs
would each follow the auditing procedures set out below in paras 6.16 through
6.18. They would maintain a separate account for the project. This would
include disbursements made under the project for all subloans.
6.17      As required by Yugoslav law all banks and enterprises are audited
annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). Normal audit by SDK, which
is limited to verification of cash balances and checking of financial state-
ments for mathematical accuracy and comparisons with previous years does not
conform to internationally accepted standards.  SDK has implemented a training
program for its staff, with the Bank's support, to undertake internationally
accepted audits of Yugoslav banks.  Full audits for all PBs will not become
available until after the end of the disbursement period of the Project, given
the number of banks involved in SDK's program and the difficulties in verifi-
cation posed by the scope of the banks' operations and the absence of conven-
tional auditing by international standards at the founders' level.
6.18      The subsidiary loan agreement would provide that during the tran-
sition period, i.e., before satisfactory audits can be performed, the PBs
would submit through VB to the Bank, SDK certified financial statements
acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The
subsidiary agreement would also provide that, when satisfactory audits can
be performed, financial statements audited in accordance with international
standards would be submitted by the PBs through VB to the Bank within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.
Supervision
6.19      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that VB and the PBs
would ensure that adequate technical and financial supervision of on-going
subprojects would be carried out. The social sector subborrowers and the
social sector enterprises borrowing on behalf of individual farmers would
submit to the respective PB, SDK-certified financial statements within six
months from the end of each fiscal year. Basic supervision would be done
by the PBs under the general responsibility of VB.
Reporting and Monitoring Requirements
6.20      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that VB will provide the
Bank with quarterly and annual reports covering the progress of the project,
sublending operations under the project, financial data pertaining to the
project, the financial statements of VB and the PBs and general data on
agriculture and ecnomic policy affecting the implementation of the project.
VB wiould also be responsible for evaluating the project's benefits at the
level of social sector subborrowers and also at the level of individual
farmer subborrowers. Evaluation is to involve field surveys as well as
examination of data pertaining to the production and financial performance
of social sector investments under the Project. Assurances were obtained



- 25 -
during negotiations that as a condition of loan effectiveness, VB and PB's
will have secured all assistance satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose
of preparing suitable monitoring procedures to apply to the First as well as
the Second Agricultural Credit Projects and that VB and PBs will take all
appropriate action to implement promptly on or before March 31, 1978 such
monitoring procedures as agreed upon with the Bank.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production, Markets and Prices
Production
7.01      The following table shows the incremental annual production gen-
erated by the Project (Annexes 3, 4 and 5):
Annual Production on Project Farms
Without Project Full Development Incremental
_____-__------- tons  000 -------------
Vegetable                               50              100               50
Fruit (berries, apples,
pears, cherries, grapes)              10               70               60
Fodder Crops                            10               28               18
Milk                                    14               70               56
Beef                                     8               40               32
Pork                                     -               24               24
Mutton                                   3                9                6
Chicken                                  -              1.2              1.2
The total value of annual incremental production at full development is
estimated at Din 2.4 million (US$135.2 million) at January 1977 prices.
Markets
7.02      The incremental production derived from the Project would serve
the following purposes: additional fodder production would result in a much
needed increase in livestock feed supplies and help reduce imports of feed
grains. Incremental vegetable production would be needed predominantly
to supply increasing domestic demand while the additional fruit production
would equally help promote exports as well as satisfy rising domestic needs.
The increase in milk production would allow the extremely low level of per
capita consumption to rise. Increased beef production would supply both the
domestic and foreign, particularly Western European markets. With the strong
demand for Project commodities largely in the domestic markets, the incre-
mental production at full development would not pose any particular marketing
problem, except possibly for the cattle fattening component, for which market
prospects might fluctuate from year to year. The appraisals of cattle fatten-
ing subprojects will include a detailed market analysis, and should be sub-
mitted to the Bank for approval, irrespective of the free limit arrangements
outlined in para 6.14.



- 26 -
Prices
7.03      The incremental production from the Project, which would result in
substituting for or reducing the growth of imports, or supplying otherwise not
satisfied needs, would not induce a reduction in producer prices since the
expected demand increase is likely to exceed the additional production. Thus
rising farmgate prices due to excess demand are expected, but they would
increase less than without the Project.
B. Financial Benefits
7.04      The financial results for typical investment models under the Proj-
ect are given in Annexes 3, 4 and 5. The calculations are based on January
1977 Yugoslav prices for both inputs and outputs, which are generally in line
with international prices. The financial rates of return of the models vary
between 16% and 37%. The sensitivity analysis yields the following: if
investment costs were raised by 10% the financial rates of return would vary
between 15% and 33%: an increase in operating expenses by 10% would result
in financial rates of return between 0% and 24%; and if revenues were to drop
by 10% the rates would range from 0% to 20%.
7.05      Some investments are extremely sensitive to an increase in operating
costs or decrease in revenues, notably those in cattle fattening. As mentioned
above (para 7.02), these subprojects would be reviewed by the Bank to ensure
their financial viability. The financial rates of return of the other invest-
ment models have remained satisfactory under sentivity testing, as it can be
expected that inflationary prices rises would affect both costs and benefits
and tend to maintain the present relationship between them. In any case sub-
projects yielding financial rates of return of less than 12% would not be
approved by VB and the PBs (para 6.08).
7.06      The average annual income of individual farmers would increase from
Din 39,000 to Din 86,000 (or from US$2,170 to US$4,780). The Project would,
through the investments in milk collection stations, cold storage, grain
dryers facilities and slaughterhouses, also benefit another 40,000 small
farms by raising their incomes by an average of about Din 20,000 a year.
C. Economic Benefits
Foreign Exchange Earnings
7.07      The Project in concentrating on the domestic market would, over its
20 year lifetime, generate about US$210 million in foreign exchange through
increased exports. Taking into account foreign exchange savings through import
substitution (mainly feed grains and milk products) and direct and indirect
import components of investments and operating costs, the total net foreign
exchange earnings or savings, over the Project's 20 year lifetime, are esti-
mated to amount to the order of US$400 million (at 1977 prices).



- 27 -
Employment
7.08      The Project would generate substantial employment opportunities.
An estimated 4,200 incremental manyears would be generated from investments in
the social and about 6,000 manyears in the individual farmer sector annually.
For an additional 16,800 farmers, the Project would reduce underemployment and
provide means to use more fully their free capacities in farming.
7.09      About 8,600 additional manyears would be generated during the 3
years investment period: 4,500 manyears in the social sector for building
and construction work and engineering services, and 4,100 manyears in the
private sector for expanding buildings, establishing fruit trees and vine-
yards and digging wells. The additional investments and consumption of
inputs, such as fertilizer, pesticides, fuel, via their backward linkages,
and the increased production via forward linkages, would generate sizeable
indirect employment opportunities, which were not quantified.
Project Beneficiaries
7.10      A significant share of the Project's financing would benefit the
poorer farmers. About US$43 million or 57% of the proposed Bank loan would
be directed towards assisting an estimated 16,800 small farmers (of which
about 50% would be located in less developed regions) to undertake selected
on-farm investments. The remaining US$32 million or 43% of the proposed Bank
loan would affect the income of at least an additional 40,000 individual
farmers by enhancing their access to markets and related services through
cooperation with the social sector. Approximately 60% of project beneficia-
ries in the individual farmer sector are in the target group, with preproject
incomes not exceeding Din 6,138 (US$341) per family member. In addition,
approximately 4,000 workers in project-assisted social sector enterprises
would benefit from the Project.
Resource Allocation
7.11      The Project in involving eight major banks would bring about sub-
stantial benefits from improved resource allocation, particularly in the less
developed regions. The staff of VB and the PBs, which would be trained under
this Project, is likely to handle most of the credit financed investments in
the agricultural sector. Their experience gained under the Project could
result in significant savings of investment resources in the agricultural
sector.
Rate of Return
7.12      The economy is expected to realize a return of 22% from total Project
investments, including physical contingencies (Annex 9). Although the adminis-
trative and training costs are included in the Project costs, their benefits
cannot be quantified. Hired labor has been valued at prevailing wage rates.
Family labor has not been costed as operating expenses because there are unused
labor capacities on private farms. However, family labor devoted to invest-
ment activities has been costed at prevailing wage rates. Wheat, maize, wool,



- 28 -
tobacco and beef were projected at world market price levels. Other commodi-
ties were valued at Janaury 1977 farmgate prices, adjusted for import duties,
taxes and subsidies. A sensitivity analysis was applied to test the Project
against changes in investment costs, operating expenses and production results.
By increasing investment costs and operating expenses alternatively by 10%,
the rate of return would drop to 20% and 15% respectively. By decreasing the
value of the benefits by 10% the overall return would drop to 12%. The eco-
nomic rates of return for individual components for fruit and vegetable, live-
stock development and agroindustries component are 25%, 23%, and 18% respec-
tively. Sensitivity analysis applied to the individual benefit and cost
streams of these respective components show that they remain viable (Annex 9).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Federal Govern-
ment, as the guarantor that it will cause the Association of Yugoslav Banks
to take all appropriate action before December 1, 1977 to undertake a study
on interest rate on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.12).
8.02      During negotiations the principal assurances obtained from VB, as
the Borrower were that:
(i) it will follow and cause the PBs to follow the financing
conditions stated in paras 6.09 through 6.14; and
(ii) it will follow and cause the PBs to follow the procurement
and monitoring procedures contained in paras 5.22 and 5.23
and paras 6.16 through 6.20.
8.03      Conditions for making the proposed loan effective are:
(i) the signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between VB and
PBs, satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.06);
(ii) the implementation of interest rate policy described in para
6.12; and
(iii) the securement of appropriate assistance to prepare a set of
monitoring procedures (para 6.20).
8.04      With the indicated agreements and fulfillment of the above condi-
tions, the Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$75 million,
equivalent, for a term of 15 years including a three year grace period.



ANNEX I
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
The Agricultural Sector
A. Description of the Natural and Institutional Framework
1.        Geography and Climate.  The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY) is located beween latitudes 400 and 470 north and longitudes 130 and 230
east. As a federal state it consists of six Socialist Republics: Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia Proper and Slovenia; and
two Autonomous Provinces attached to Serbia: Vojvodina and Kosovo. It borders
Italy, Austria, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Albania and the Adriatic
Sea.
2.        Of Yugoslavia's total territory of 255,804 km2, about 58% is recorded
as agricultural land while the rest is taken up by forests, rivers and lakes.
Of the agricultural land about 70% is cultivable and the rest consists of perma-
nent pastures. The extremely fertile soils predominantly located in Vojvodina
and the Northern regions of Croatia represent only one-sixth of the country's
total area but contain nearly a third of the arable land and produce more than
half of the country's output of wheat and maize and over three-quarters of its
sugarbeet. This region is also suitable for intensive livestock and vegetable
production. In the hills (up to 500 meters in altitude) which account for about
40% of the total area and cover much of Serbia, Slovenia and Bosnia, a mixed
farm pattern prevails. Important lines of production are livestock raising
and fruit growing and, to a lesser degree, field crops. The mountain region
covering 44% of the country is generally unfavorable for crop production, but
extensive upland pastures support sheep and some cattle raising. At the
Adriatic coast, vineyards and olive and citrus groves are found, whereas in
southern Macedonia sub-tropical crops, such as tobacco, cotton and rice are
grown.
3.        In the valleys and plains alluvial soils are predominant with cher-
nozem prevailing in most of Vojvodina and the northeastern part of Croatia.
Delluvial and terra rossa soils are common to the hills. Soil erosion is a
major problem on steep, barren hills and mountain slopes. Cultivated soils
are usually well supplied with organic matter and potash, but poor in phos-
phates. The pH ranges in most areas from acid to neutral; slightly alkaline
soils are located in the northern part of the country.
4.        There are three basic climatic zones in Yugoslavia:  (i) the Mediter-
ranean, (ii) the modified Atlantic, and (iii) the continental climatic zones.
Due to the topographic configuration of the country these zonal climates are
much modified by the terrain. The mediterranean climate of the Adriatic



ANNEX 1
Page 2
coast has mild winters and hot summers (annual average temperatures 150C),
with relatively heavy rainfall (e.g. Dubrovnik 1,500 mm), characteristically
in the autumn and winter months while the summer are dry. The modified
atlantic climate of Slovenia and northwestern Croatia is the coldest in the
country (annual average 90C). These areas receive heavy rainfall (e.g.
Ljubljana 1,54 mm), which is lowest in winter and relatively evenly spread
during the other seasons. The continental climate is most characteristic of
Vojvodina. Here, too, the winters are vey cold, but the summers are quite hot.
Precipitation in this area is among the lowest in the country (e.g. Vrsac
682 mm), but tends to be concentrated in late spring and early summer, which
allows high plant utilization in the period of greatest growth. A temperate
continental climate exists between the continental and mediterranean zones,
covering essentially the whole of the Dinaric System, which has the lowest
annual average temperatures, with cold winters and cool summerE, and heavy
precipitation (e.g. Kolasin 2,670 mm) concentrated in the autumn and winter.
Another transitional zone also exists, which includes most of Macedonia, where
the Continental influence is basic and the Mediterranean secondary.
5.        Land Use.  Total agricultural land decreased slightly from 14.8 mil-
lion ha to 14.5 million ha during the past ten years. Though the area under
cereals decreased by about 10% (500,000 ha) total production of cereals in-
creased because of higher yields. The decrease in cereal cultivation is partly
due to the general decrese of agricultural land and partly because of an expan-
sion of lands under fallow and an expansion of lands under more profitable
crops such as vegetables, industrial crops and fruit. Land use in Yugoslavia
in 1975 was as follows (Table 1):
Land Use in SFRY in 1975
Percent of        Percent of       Percent of
Agric. Land      Cultiv. Land      Arable Land
Agricultural Land                    100
Cultivate Land                        69.1            100
Pastures                              30.3
Fish Pond, Pools,
Roads, etc.                          0.6
Arable Land                                             73.2             100
Orchards                                                 4.7
Vineyards                                                2.7
Meadows                                                 19.6
Cereals                                                                   64.9
Industrial Crops                                                           5.9
Vegetables (incl. potatoes)                                                8.9
Fodder Crops                                                              12.1
Fallow and Uncultivated
Arable Land                                                              8.2



ANNEX 1
Page 3
6.        Though the total area under cereals declined its structure did not
undergo important changes. Maize and wheat cover more than 80 percent of the
land under grain. Sunflower and sugarbeets are the two most important indus-
trial crops. The area under sunflower has increased by more than 25% since
1966 reaching about 45% in 1975.  Land under vegetable production is increas-
ing, with potatoes covering about 50% of the land under vegetables.
7.        As described in paras 2 and 3 above, the land use characteristics is
largely dictated by soil quality, topography and water availability. Irriga-
tion is however another important influence on cropping patterns, although
only 1.5% (150,000 ha) of total cultivated land in Yugoslavia is irrigated.
Most irrigated land is found in Macedonia and Kosovo, where the major portion
of Yugoslavia's intensive vegetable growing is undertaken. The social sector,
cultivating 35% of the cultivated land in the country, controls at least 50%
of the total irrigated area. Most irrigation systems operated by the individ-
ual farmer sector are traditional gravity systems, most of which are ineffi-
cient and antiquated.
8.        The potential for irrigation in Yugoslavia, estimated at about 3.1
million ha varies by regions, depending largely on the amount and pattern of
annual precipitation. In the Danube, Sava and Drava rivers systems irrigation
provides supplemental water needed during the months of June through September
when temperatures are high and precipitation is erratic and often low. In the
Danube-Tisa-Danube complex the need for supplemental irrigation is even more
pronounced. During the vegetative period April-October about 600 mm of water
is required. Over a 20 year period, five years have suffered a 50% shortage
of water, and five other years had a 33% shortfall in achieving the required
water supply. Irrigation in these areas when supplemented to the normal pre-
cipitation pattern could increase production by approximately 50%.
9.        The largest returns to irrigation are available in Macedonia and
Kosovo, where crop production is constrained by inadequate water supply. In
these areas irrigation makes intensive farming possible, and a full water
supply can increase crop production from 60% to 200%.
10.       The need for drainage, including both surface and subsurface drainage,
is most pronounced in Croatia, Slovenia and Montenegro where non-permeable sub-
soils prevent the realization of crop production potential. The total area
requiring drainage in the three Republics comprises about 1.2 million ha. In
some areas the land is not utilized for agricultural purposes because of an
absence of drainage. Together with land development and consolidation, drain-
age would be particularly beneficial to the individual farmer sector. In
many regions it would be a precondition for efficient mechanization.
11.       Agriculture in the Economy.  In Yugoslavia almost 35% of the popula-
tion lives in rural areas. Agriculture accounts for 16% of the social product,
constitutes roughly 8% of total commodity exports and employs about 42% of the
labor force of Yugoslavia. Though its role has been declining relatively with
rapid industrialization it still remains a sector of basic importance in the
overall development of the economy. Yugoslav agricultural policy (paras 25-30)
has passed through various phases. After the abandonment of collectivization



ANNEX 1
Page 4
in 1953, the Government concentrated on developing agricultural marketed pro-
duction through a modern social sector (incorporating the earlier state farms
and agricultural cooperatives which replaced the collective farms) as the
priority instrument for food production to meet the demand of the rapidly
growing non-agricultural population. In social sector agriculture, heavy
investments were made, to modernize and mechanize production, to increase the
use of chemical inputs and to expand irrigation. The individual farmer sector
was until recently relatively neglected by Government policy, which places
emphasis on voluntary cooperation between peasant farmers and the social sec-
tor agriculture as the major device for increasing production in the indivi-
dual farmer sector. The social product in agriculture increased at an average
rate of 2.7% per year during 1971-75, with the social sector output increasing
at about 5.6% per year and the individual farmer sector at about 1.9% per year.
In 1975, average per capita income amounts to about 41% of that of the rest of
the economy.
12.       During the last 15 years economic indicators of the role of the agri-
cultural sector have evolved as follows:
1961      1966       1971       1975
Agricultural Land as %
of Total Area                                58.3       58         57         56.6
Agricultural Social Product
in Real Terms as % of Total /1               26.1       22.5       17.8       15.9
Agricultural Population as %
of Total                                     49.6       n/a        38.2       35
Active Agricultural Population
as % of Total Active Population              56.3       n/a        47.3       42
Agricultural Exports as %
of Total Exports                              -         15.5       12.9        7.6
Agricultural Investment % of  Total           11.7       9.0        7.0        5.6
/1   Social Product at 1972 prices.
Source: Statisticki Godisnjak Jugoslavije 1976
13.       The role of agriculture in the economy of the republics varies with
the level of development, the share of agricultural land in the total area,
the quality of soils and the cropping pattern (Table 2). The share of agri-
culture in social product is relatively high for the less developed republics
like Kosovo (25%) or Macedonia (21.2%), less important for the developed
regions such as Slovenia (7%) and Croatia (13.4%) but still relatively high
in developed regions such as Vojvodina (29%) and Serbia (17.8%) where condi-
tions are favorable for high agricultural productivity and where cooperation
between the social and the individual farmer sector is effective.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
14.       Organization of the Agricultural Sector.  One of the important
characteristic features of Yugoslav agriculture is the separate existence
of two sectors i.e. social and individual with different farm structures.
The social sector has its origin in the postwar collectivization policy,
and received further impetus by the Agrarian Reform of 1953, which limited
the size of private or individual holding to 10 ha of cultivable land or 25
ha of forest land, and brought 276,000 ha of additional land under the social
sector. Since then, the land resources of the social sector have almost
doubled due to reclamation, purchase and lease from private holders. The
social sector in 1975 held 15% of the cultivated land, employed 5% of total
agricultural manpower, produced 26% of the agricultural product and 46% of
the market production. In 1975 there were 2,363 social sector holdings averag-
ing 1,063 ha of cultivated area per holding. The social sector includes (i)
agroindustrial kombinats (integrated production and processing units); (ii)
agricultural estates (both general agriculture and livestock farms); and (iii)
general agricultural cooperatives (zadrugas) with their own agricultural pro-
duction as well as provision of services to individual farmers. All these
organizations operate under the principles of social ownership of the means of
production and workers' self-management. Since 1974 to further promote the
integration of social and individual sectors the Government has developed the
concept of so-called Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL) which
integrates production, processing and marketing functions of the individual
and social sectors operating under the self-management principle implying dis-
tribution of profits and losses among the associates.
15.       The social sector absorbed more than two thirds of the gross fixed
investment in agriculture in the post war period. The capital intensity of
the investments increased from Din 1,136 (1972 prices) in 1966 to over Din
4,000 in 1975 while the number of trained workers increased by 56% and the
number of permanent workers decreased by 34%. At the same time the volume of
production in the sector increased by about 50%. The main constraint to
further development of the social sector agriculture is the lack of capital
to develop the scarce available land and to expand and modernize its outdated
processing facilities.
16.       The individual farmer sector comprises about 2.6 million small
peasant holdings of an average size of 4.0 ha. It has about 94% of total
agricultural population and 85% of cultivated land. The size of private
holdings is limited to a maximum 10 ha of arable land. However renting and
leasing is not restricted by law. The number of persons that may be employed
on a wage basis by a farmer is legally restricted to a maximum of two persons.
The productivity in the individual farmer sector is significantly lower than in
the social sector. Incomes of social sector farm workers average several times
those of individual farmers, reflecting this disparity. The social product per
worker at 1975 prices in the individual farmer sector is only 24% of the same
social product in the social sector; while the social product per hectare of
cultivated land is also only 53% of the same social production in the social
sector. Investments per ha in the private sector is only 11.7% of the invest-
ment per ha in the social sector in 1973. The main reasons for these differ-
ences are (a) lack of capital, (b) lack of credit facilities for the purchase
of better quality seeds and breeds, fertilizers and machinery, (c) lack of



ANNEX 1
Page 6
extension services, and (d) overall lower quality of land. About one-third
of the rural population is estimated to be in the relative poverty target
group with incomes per family member of less than Din 6,138 (US$341) per
year.
17.       The individual farmer and social sectors are for the most part com-
plementary rather than competitive. Labor intensive crops, such as vegetables
and tobacco, are almost exclusively produced by individual farmers, who in
addition own 97% of the sheep and 95% of the cattle herds. Cooperation between
the sectors takes the form of trade in input and output, provision of serv-
ices by the social sector such as supply of fertilizers, harvesting, cultiva-
tion, marketing and credit and the contracting of joint production. The social
sector also provides most of the extension service available in Yugoslavia.
About 30% of all smallholders cooperate with the social sector in one way or
another while 15-20% participate in contract cooperation. Contract cooperation,
in particular, is mainly concentrated in more developed regions and with rela-
tively larger peasant farmers which provide input to social sector food pro-
cessing facilities. The very small farmers, particularly in the underdeveloped
mountainous regions are least affected by such cooperation. One important
inter-relation between individual sector agriculture, and the social sector in
general exists in the supply of labor. An increasing number of peasants while
living on the farm are engaged in part-time non-agricultural employment, and
this is an important source of income for peasant households.
18.       Research, education and provision of technical services are provided
by some 50 independent institutes for research, dealing with specialized agri-
cultural problems. In addition, there are facilities for agriculture and vet-
erinary science at various universities. The institutes are financed by the
republics and the communes, and by payments for contract work done for enter-
prises. The universities are the training ground for managerial staff, and
other technical workers. In addition there are some 200 educational centers
where farm workers are trained.
19.       Marketing and Prices.  In Yugoslavia there are first the "official"
social markets for all agricultural products with authorized purchases and
sales, and then the "informal" markets based on peasant market places. The
value of authorized purchases amounts to 40-50% of total agricultural product
at present; the rest is either consumed by the agricultural population or sold
on peasant markets. There is large regional variation in the relative impor-
tance of authorized market production. Likewise, in the case of industrial
crops such as tobacco, sugarbeet, sunflower, total marketed production is more
than 70% of total production while in the case of vegetables it is only 10%.
20.       Some of the social sector enterprises have their own arrangements
for export marketing particularly in the case of processed fruit, vegetable
and wine. In order to centralize and coordinate export marketing and ensure
quality control and standardization, the Federal Government is establishing
export agencies in major European markets. Due to their smaller scale of pro-
duction individual farmers rely on the processing capabilities and marketing
facilities of the social sector enterprises.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
21.       Three types of pricing arrangements are used in Yugoslavia according
to the technical difficulties in the implementation of price policy on various
markets. These are:
(a) Guaranteed minimum prices by Government applied for all important
agricultural goods (cereals, meat, wool) for which the implementa-
tion of a price guarantee is technically possible;
(b) Minimum prices - without guarantee of the Government - prescribed
mainly for those agricultural goods which need processing such as
milk, sugarbeet and other industrial crops. These prices are
determined on the basis of the production costs in the social
sector and are agreed to in contract cooperation; and
(c) Prices free from intervention, for goods which are marketed mainly
on peasant markets or are highly perishable, so that effective
price control is practically impossible.
22.       Intervention through official pricing has not greatly affected price
distortions in produce markets because of its limited scope. In addition to
this pricing system, the Government, through federal or local budgets provides
premiums to the producers of basic commodities. These bonuses of 4-5% of the
minimum prices, are in the case of the social sector reserved to finance
investment programs.
23.       Taxes.  Social sector agricultural enterprises pay income and turn-
over taxes in much the same way as industrial enterprises. However, agri-
cultural investments and most of the inputs are exempted from turnover taxes.
The income tax is generally calculated proportionally to the income earned.
Its rates differ from republic to republic (0.8% to 13%), and are in Serbia
and Kosovo progressive to the level of income. In addition to these taxes,
the social sector contributes to various funds such as Skopje Earthquake
Reconstruction Fund, and the Fund for Development of less Developed Regions.
The basic tax obligation of the individual farmer is the land tax calculated
according to the cadastral value of the land. The valuation is determined
every five years by the local authorities and is based on the estimated
productivity of the land. The land tax rates vary between 20% in Bosnia-
Herzegovina and 9.5% in Croatia of the estimated annual income earned by
exploiting the land.
B. The Social Plans
24.       Policy Making in Agriculture.  At the federal level, coordination
of agricultural policies is achieved by the Federal Chamber of Economy, and
the Federal Committee for Agriculture. The Federal Chamber has specialist
committees to achieve coordination of research, planning, finance, etc.,
and the Committee coordinates the plans, programs and legislation of the
Republics. Responsibility for agricultural policy implementation lies with
the Republic Secretariats for Agriculture, and is coordinated at the Federal
level by the Committee. Due to decentralized decision making, all functions



ANNEX 1
Page 8
associated with policy implementation, rest with autonomous self-governing
organizations, and the Secretariats only retain indirect control via fund
disbursements. Production plans are designed and implemented by kombinats
and cooperatives or in some cases by special enterprises in accordance with
self-management principles. Even though they account for only about 30% of
total farm land the kombinats are an effective medium for policy implementa-
tion regarding production and investments, since they have a virtual monopoly
of technicians and management skills.
25.       Development Strategy and Priorities.  The overall performance of the
agricultural sector in the Plan period 1971-1975 was better than under the
previous plan. Actual growth of total production was 2.7% on average compared
to the projected 3.5%, and the 2.1% realized under the previous social plan
(Table 3). The individual farmer sector in particular lagged behind - despite
its productivity gains - realizing only 1.8% annual growth compared to 3.0%
in the Plan. This trend is the result of various aspects of investment, pro-
duction and distribution patterns which favor the social sector. In 1973 as
a result of Government discussions on agriculture development the Republics
and Autonomous Provinces approved a common Agreement on the Long-Term Develop-
ment Policy for Agriculture (Agricultural Development Plan). This Agreement
reflects the realization among political and economic authorities that increas-
ing food production requires the cooperation of small farmers. The Agricul-
tural Development Plan's basic objective is to raise production to meet ex-
pected domestic needs and allow for some exports (Table 4). It emphasizes:
(a) further development of the social sector through modernization of produc-
tion techniques, expansion of processing facilities, better utilization of
available resources and the adjustment of production to changes in demand; and
(b) development of individual farms primarily through cooperation with the
social sector. The Plan's objectives, revised in 1976, are now 4% per annum
agricultural production growth for the period 1976-1980, with the social sec-
tor expected to grow at 8% and the individual farmer sector at 3%. Within the
field of livestock production, which is projected to increase at 4% per year
(Table 5), the Plan gives high priority to cattle breeding in both the indi-
vidual and social sectors. The production of beef is largely intended for
exports, and, accordingly, quality improvement is emphasized; milk and milk
products are expected to be consumed domestically. The Plan stresses the need
for technical and organizational improvements in the collection and process-
ing of milk, particularly from the private sector. Emphasis is also given to
increased sheep production in mountainous and generally poor areas. The pro-
duction of wheat and rye is projected to develop in line with domestic need,
including the formation and maintenance of an adequate level of reserves.
Production, now about 5 million tons per year, is foreseen to increase to more
than 6 million tons by the end of the decade. Production of feed grains,
particularly corn, is planned to increase to about 13 million tons per year by
1985, to meet the growing needs of dairy and meat production. Concommitantly,
a significant expansion in storage and drying facilities will become necessary.
The production of vegetables, fruits and grapes is planned to increase in line
with rising living standards at home and increasing export possibilities. The
Mediterranean climate zone, where winter and early spring vegetables can be
grown, should provide the bulk for exports.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
26.       The Plan considers the development of efficient food processing
industries essential to agricultural development and the improvement of product
quality. With rising standards of living domestic demand is expected to shift
increasingly to higher quality and processed products.
27.       To achieve its objectives the Plan focusses on price policies,
investment policies and cooperation between the social and individual farmer
sectors. The Government intends to continue through interventionist sales and
purchases to keep market prices within 10-15% of minimum prices as agreed be-
tween the producers and the marketing enterprises. It intends also to develop
the system of premiums for basic commodities (cereals, milk, industrial crops)
to boost their production. Special incentives are foreseen to encourage mobil-
ization of enterprises' own resources, such as income tax exemption for invest-
ments in agriculture; turnover tax exemption and interest rate subsidies for
investment credits to agriculture; reduction to import duties on agroindustry
equipment not produced in Yugoslavia; elimination of Dinar deposit require-
ments 1/ with the National Bank for foreign credits channelled into agricul-
tural investments; and increase in the foreign exchange retention quota for
depreciation charges 2/. On the basis of preliminary discussions within Gov-
ernment at Federal and Republic levels it is expected that the total invest-
ment for the Plan period would amount to Din 75 billion (US$4.2 billion) in
1975 prices of which the social sector would invest Din 53 billion and the
individual farmer sector Din 22 billion. About 20% of the required financing
is expected to be provided by enterprises or investors' own resources, 40% to
be provided by Government and 40% by the Banking system of which about 10-20%
are from foreign sources. Government intends to expand cooperation among
farmers and between farmers and social sector organizations to increase produc-
tivity in the individual farmer sector. Such cooperation would enhance modern-
ization of small farms and mobilize more resources for investments in that sec-
tor. The Republics and Provinces have agreed to support cooperative arrange-
ments through provision of financing, and interest rate and tax policies.
They also agreed to pass legislation that would allow cooperating farmers to
join the health and social insurance pension schemes of social sector organiza-
tions.
28.       The Agricultural Development Plan, for the first time in Yugoslavia's
postwar development, provides a comprehensive guideline for the development of
agriculture, encompassing both the social and the individual farmer sector. In
recognizing the potential of the individual sector and explicitly supporting
its development, the Plan is a big step towards better resource utilization
and more even income distribution. However, in limiting its support only to
farmers that either form a cooperative or cooperate in some way with the social
1/   Enterprises and banks borrowing abroad are required to deposit a certain
percentage of the foreign credit in dinars with the National Bank with-
out earning interest.
2/   Enterprises are entitled to retain in foreign exchange 10% of the annual
depreciation charges.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
sector, the Plan will not reach a substantial portion of the agricultural popu-
lation, notably the smaller farmers and those in the mountainous and infertile
areas.
29.       The Plan's projected growth rate for the social sector (8%) seems
to be optimistic as the Plan fails to recognize that the declining growth
rates in the sector since 1965-66 is not accidental. It indicates a change
in the growth pattern since the social sector with the land and technology
available at present is approaching the level of development where production
increases become more difficult. Because of the two limiting factors growth
of primary production in the social sector is unlikely to exceed 4% per annum
in the next five years. On the other hand the planned annual growth rate of
3% for the individual farmer sector seems achievable. It implies, however, a
growing income discrepancy between the sectors unless the labor force in the
individual farmer sector decreases by about 5%. It is unlikely that migration
of such magnitude would take place. Individual farmers would continue to seek
to increase of their incomes through off-farm employment and renting of addi-
tional land to increase their farm size.



APPRAISAL UF'
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Structure of Land Use in the Republics 1975
Agricultural Area in Republics = 100
SFRY         Bosnia     Montenegro       Croatia      Macedonia       Slovenia      Serbia      Kosovo      Vojvodina
Herzegovina                                                               Proper
Pastures         30.5          37.3          64.5            35.2         50.3           28.4          19.8        32.5          8.0
Meadows          13.7          16.2           22.1           13.5          3.5           36.3          14.9        12.4          2.1
Arable Land      50.9          43.1           11.2           46.7         42.5           29.0          56.3        52.0         88.0
Orchards          3.2           3.2            1.7            2.1          1.5            4.0           6.7         1.7          0.7
Vineyards         1.7           0.2            0.4            2.5          2.2             2.3          2.3         1.4           1.2
Structure of the Use of Cultivated Land in the Republics 1975
Cultivated Land in the Republics = 100
Cereals          59.1          50.7          40.0            58.0         45.2           42.1          60.1        75.5          71.4
Industrial Crops 5.3            1.0             -             4.2         10.7             1.3          1.7         3.1         14.2
Vegetables        8.1           9.1           17.1            8.9          8.8            16.0          7.9         6.5           4.9
Fodder Crops    11.0           13.3          14.3            11.3          5.0            20.6         13.6         7.1           6.2
Orchards          5.8           6.8           12.8            4.1          3.2            11.3         10.2          3.1          0.8
Vineyards         3.1           0.4            2.9            4.9          4.7             6.6          3.6         2.5           1.3
Fallows           7.6          18.7           12.9            8.6         22.4             2.1          2.9          2.2          1.2   12
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Yugoslavia, 1976.                                                                                       HH



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agricultural Sector Aggregates
Share of the Republics
in 1975
% of                       Social   Social Product
% of                     % of        Active    Z of active  Social   Social                  % of   Product    in Agric.
Total  Total   Cultivated   Cultivated   Agricult.   Agricult.   Product  Product   Market  Market  of total in X of Total
Area   Area       Area          Area      Population  Population  in Agric. in Agric. Produc. Produc. Economy  Social Product
SFRY              14,470   100        10,001         100         3,887         100        77,492      100      42,312   100    498,041          16
Bosnia & Herzeg.  2,583    18          1,624          16           691           18         7,504       10      2,527       6     63,822        12
Montenegro            530     4          191            2            73           2         1,185        2         277      1      9,124        13
Croatia            3,284    23         2,137          21           677           17       15,850        20      8,643    20    130,304          12
Macedonia          1,339      9          666            7           306           8         9,056       12       4,138    10      28,516        32
Slovenia             901      6          646           6           197            5         5,145        7      4,290    10       84,089         6
Serbia Proper      3,437    23         2,757          27         1,404           36        19,518       25       6,939    16    115,843         17
Kosovo               587      4          396            4           188           5         2,557        3         726      2     10,821        24
Vojvodina          1,809    13         1,666           17           351           9        16,677       21      14,772    35       55,462        30
Total Area in 000 of ha.
Population in Thousands.
Social Product and Market Production in mill. Dinar, Current Prices.
Source:  Statisticki Godisnjak Jugoslavije, 1976 and Preparation of a Second Agricultural Credit Project Yugoslavia



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Growth Rates of Agricultural Production 1966 - 1975 by Republics
SFRY             Bosnia / Herzegovina           Montenecro               Croatia                  Macedonia                 Slovenia               Serbiaj/
Total  Social  rrlvate  -Total Social Private  Total  Social  Private  Total  Social Private  Total  Social  Privam  Total  Social  Private  Total  Socl Privete
--------------------------------------------------_-            ___-%-                                                                      -    ----_________________
1966-1970
Realized     2.1    5.1       1.3     4.3      -        -       2.6     -        -       4.0     -        -       4.2     -         -      3.1     -         _      1.3    0.7       1.7
1971-1975
Planned      3.5    6.0       3.0      3.6  10.4       3.0      3.1    8.2      2.0      4.2   10.5       2.3     4.8   10.0       3.0    2.7    4.1        2.5     4.0    6.0       3.5
Realized     2.7    5.6       1.8      2.8    8.0      2.3      2.6    4.8      2.4      1.8    7.3       0.5     5.9    7.5       2.2    2.5    3.3        2.2     3.4    4.7       3.1
1976-1980
Planned      4.0    8.0       3.0      3.8    9.5      3.0      4.3    7.5      3.5      4.8    7.2       3.9     4.0    8.0       2.3    3.5    6.0        3.2      4.0    8.0       3.1
1/ Serbia including Vojvodina and Kosovo
Source:  Statistical Yearbook of Yugoslavia and Preparation of a Second Agriculturel Credit Project Yugoslaxia.
oI 



ANNEX 1
APPRAI$AL O!                             Table 4
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Trade Balance of Agricultural Products 1970-1974
1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1975
-------------in million dinars-------------------
Total Agricultural Products
Exports                                  5,376    5,418    6,659    7,804    7,008    8,132
Imports                                  3,854    5,036    5,249    8,635   11,322    7,133
Trade Balance*                           1,522       382    1.410    - 831   -4.314          999
of which:
Live Animals and Meat
Exports                               2,703    3,003    4,192    4,273    2,518    3,774
Imports                                 288       169       221       999       596       234
Trade Balance                         2,415    2,834    3,971    3,274    1,922    3,540
Dairy Products and Eggs
Exports                                  35        46        24        48        31        33
Imports                                 112       157       182       197      194         74
Trade Balance                          - 77    - 111    - 158    - 149    - 163         - 41
Cereals and Cereal Preparations
Exports                                 355       187       137    1,062    1,246        608
Imports                                 310    1,704    1,247        970    3,628        293
Trade Balance                            45   -1,517   -1,110          92   -2,382        315
Fruits and Vegetables
Exports                                 721       847       999       946    1,251    1,341
Imports                                 686       746       759    1,035    1,460    1,412
Trade Balance                            35       101       240      - 89    - 209      - 71
Sugar and Sugar Preparation
Export                                  111         9        10        16        75        50
Import                                   65       391    1,014    1,852        701    1,605
Trade Balance                            46    - 382   -1,004   -1,836    - 626   -1,555
Feeding Stuff for Animals
Exports                                 208        58        42        39      112       108
Imports                                 821       726       596    1,803    2,115        881
Trade Balance                         - 613    - 668    - 554   -1,764   -2,003    - 773
Beverages and Tobacco
Exports                                 993    1,049        983    1,024    1,338    1,762
Imports                                 110       113       119      139       169       459
Trade Balance                           883       936       864      885    1,196    1,303
Coffee, Tea, Cacao and Spices
Exports                                  25        23        21       35        52        56
Imports                                 922      804       895    1,300    1,955    1,776
Trade Balance                         - 897    - 781    - 874   -1,265   -1,903   -1,720
Miscellaneous
Exports                                 187       197      251       361       386       400
Imports                                 208      227       225       339       505       400
Trade Balance                          - 21     - 30        26        22    - 119          0
* Trade Balance = Exports - Imports.
Source: Statistics of Foreign Trade of the SFR Yugoslavia and Statisticki Godisniak
Jugoslavije 1976.



ANNEX 1
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Projected Production of Majcr Products 1980
1975                                            Implicit Annual Growth
Actual        Social Plan     Projected      As per 1975    As per 1976-80
Production    1976-1980         1980         Production     Social Plan
----------------tons '000-----------    -----------------------
Cereals (without
Wheat and Rye)       15,011        14,850          18,000           3.7             3.9
Wheat and Rye          4,502         5,300           6,200             5             2.5
Maize                  9,389         8,650          11,000           3.2             4.9
Sugar beets            4,213         4,800           8,600          15.6            12.6
Sunflower                272           480             700          20.8             7.8
Soy-beans                 30            16             145          37.0            55.4
Tobacco                   70            60             100           7.4            10.8
Potatoes               2,394         3,100           3,600           9.'             3.6
Vegetables with-
out Potatoes          2,323         2,300           3,400           8.0             8.0
Fruit and Grapes       2,780         3,000           3,500           5.2             3.7
Meat                   1,052           920           1,250           4.o            6.8
Cattle                   33)           280             40o           3.9            7.4
Pork                     390           340             510           5.5            8.5
Mutton and Lamb           56            55              65           3.4            3.4
Poultry                  188           175             238           4.8            6.o
Milk                   3,688         3,500           4,350           4.2            5.5



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FINANCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
A. Legal Framework of Banks in Yugoslavia
General Provisions
1.        The basic legal framework under which Yugoslav banks operate is
incorporated in the Federal Banking Law of December 1971 and in each bank's
statutes. M4ajor elements include several classic cooperative principles
such as:
(a) Each member of a bank is called a founder and has one vote
in the Founders' Assembly, regardless of the size of con-
tribution to the bank's resources;
(b) The founders of the bank have unlimited liability for the
obligations of their bank;
(c)  Statutory regulations pertaining to joining a bank are
minimal, and under specified procedures a founder may
withdraw from a bank (an event unlikely to occur frequently
in practice).
Other provisions of the Law enable Yugoslav banks to engage in a wide range of
transactions and activities along the usual commercial banking lines, and also
include provisions which specify that:
(d)  Founders may include only "social legal persons", i.e. social
sector enterprises.   The minimum number of founders is 25,
and their combined total contribution to the Founders' Fund
must equal at least Din. 50 million (US$2.78 million);
(e) The bank's statutes prescribe the powers of the various managing
organs. A bank's highest governing body is the Assembly con-
sisting of representatives of its founders;
(f) The Assembly appoints the bank's Chief Executive and members
of the Executive Board. The Chief Executive is responsible
for the implementation of Assembly and Executive Board
decisions. The Executive Board is responsible to the
Assembly for policy formulation (subject to Assembly
approval), for oversight of operations and for certain
operating decisions not delegated to the Chief Executive;



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(g) The Assembly approves the bank's annual business policy
(budget) and the policy on interest rates and decides on
the allocation of income to reserves and the distribution
(in aggregate) to the bank's working community (staff)
and founders;
(h) The founders of a bank are typically also founders of a
branch of their bank. Branches have their own Founders'
Assembly and a management structure similar to that existing
for a bank as a whole. All founders of branches are also
founders of a bank as a whole;
(i) Banks are required to make a yearly appropriation to a Reserve
Fund out of income, of at least 0.5% of loans outstanding at
the year-end, until the fund amounts to 5% of loans outstanding.
This fund can be used only for writing-off bad debts and, tem-
porarily, for meeting the bank's obligations in circumstances
of tight liquidity. The resources of this fund have to be
generally maintained in liquid or semi-liquid funds;
(j) Banks are required to write-off bad debts first against income.
Write-offs against the Reserve Fund are only possible to the
extent that there is insufficient income;
(k) A bank may be liquidated if it is unable to meet its obligations
for more than six months;
(1) In case of liquidation, the deposits of individuals have priority
over all other creditors of the bank. (Deposits of individuals
are also guaranteed by the Federal Government under a separate
law).
2.        In addition to the Banking Law, the banks have to comply with
various regulations and directives issued by the National Bank of Yugoslavia
and the Federal Government. The main directives which have a direct implica-
tions on the bank's financial operations are:
(a) Liquidity Requirements. The banks have to maintain a certain
proportion of their short term deposits as statutory reserves
with the National Bank, evidenced by non-negotiable cashier's
notes of the National Bank. (The interbank clearing function
is handled by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). The rate
varies for different classes of deposits, and the average
level has been in the 10-25% range for participating banks
between 1973 and 1975. Also, banks are required to keep
nominal minimum cash positions.
(b) Foreign Exchange Regime. All foreign borrowings are
regulated by the National Bank and have to be registered
with it prior to and after the borrowing is contracted.
Only banks specially authorized by the National Bank can
undertake foreign exchange transactions.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(c) Limitations Regarding Banks' Overall Commitments. Under a
Federal law, passed in the second half of 1975, a bank is
required to keep the level of its liquid investment poten-
tial which is determined from a bank's balance sheet and
cash flow projections (paras 5 and 7). Under the law,
the Yugoslav Federal Executive Council specifies which
resources constitute a bank's liquid investment potential
and the conditions under which guarantees can be made.
3.        To summarize these observations concerning the legal and regulatory
framework of commercial banking in Yugoslavia, the main points are that the
banks are organized according to several classic cooperative principles; con-
duct a range of transactions and activities within the conventional scope of
commercial banking; have a nanagement structure similar to that of coopera-
tives and corporations; have a relationship with the central bank similar to
that found in many other European countries, except that the central bank
appears to have relatively less influence over interest rates; and are bound
by statutory formula regarding the accumulation of a Reserve Fund and the
writing-off of bad debts.
B. Concepts of Bank Management and Accounting
4.        As suggasted by the cooperative basis of bank ownership, the banks
are ideally not supposed to act independently of the requirements of their
founders. In fact, a bank's founders are also its largest borrowers, and
banks may be perceived as financial vehicles of mutual assistance among
founders as well as a means by which founders gain access to the savings and
working balances of citizens held in the form of bank deposits. In addition,
banks act as loan windows for certain funds allocated for priority development
purposes by fiscal authorities at the republic (republic funds) or provincial
levels (provincial funds), and at the federal level (federal funds) with re-
spect to the four less developed regions. Banks also manage funds on a trustee
basis for various organs of the state, such as subdivisions.
5.        In addition to its statutes, each bank operates according to an
annual "Business Policy" which implies preparing, against the background of
the Five-Year Plan, a program statement about the Bank's main objectives,
magnitude of operations and interest rates structure. The planning of bank
lending programs is ideally derived from the aggregated investment plans and
working capital requirements of founders and undertaken on a five year basis
coinciding with planning periods. However, this ideal is achieved only to
varying degrees, and the procedure sometimes used in fact involves an annual
plan derived from applying some inflator to recent levels of performance.
The primary emphasis in banks' planning is not so much on outstanding or
risk exposure as on disbursements. The relative unconcern for exposure
reflects the view that the banks are viewed as an integral part of the
economy (defined to include "productive" sectors only) and are the financial
arm of their founders, which are also the major borrowers. Lending is un-
secured, but supported by founders' unlimited liability and by efforts to



ANNEX 2
Page 4
ensure the technical and financial feasibility of the loan-supported invest-
ment. The disbursement approach to planning is engendered by the perception
of banks primarily as channels of funds for productive purposes rather than
as intermediaries serving society by altering the risk and term structure of
the accumulation of financial claims of economic units which create a finan-
cial surplus. Planning variables of key importance consist of projections of
disbursement potential based on a bank's cash flow expectations. Separate
calculations of disbursements potential are made for long term and for short
term needs. Variables are adjusted monthly on the basis of results and new
developments. The system appears in general to work satisfactorily, providing
coordination between the investment plans of enterprises and availability of
resources according to priorities established by the Green Plan.
6.        Bank managemert is based upon the concept of matching sources and
uses of funds. The application of this concept in Yugoslavia involves a
number of features which tend to de-emphasize the fungibility of finance and
to restrict the independent growth and specialization of the financial sector,
in accordance with Yugoslav economic philosophy. The matching concept is also
used to foster decentralization of decision making by stressing matching at
the lowest possible level of the kombinat by means of an internal bank (para
14), which permits the maximum possible matching of internal sources and uses
of funds. Kombinats join together to form a bank, thereby pooling their
financial balance and requirements, and also tapping the pool of citizens'
private financial resources in the vicinity of the founders' production
activities. The tradition of branch autonomy in banking also reflects this
philosophy. The organizational framework emphasizes the matching of sources
and uses at the branch level, for the branch's founders and with the local
community, rather than viewing the branches largely as devices for securing
resources and locating lending opportunities for the head office or for the
bank as a whole.   Entire banks may also join together to form associated
banks (para. 16) for specified purposes. The relationship between one level
and the next in these pooling hierarchies is in principal based on the net
financial position of the lower level, or on special services which are most
easily provided at a higher level, such as Eurocurrency borrowing. The
Yugoslav approach to matching is also seen in the use of earmarked deposits,
which may be used by banks for lending only in some specified manner.
7.        At the level of internal planning within a bank, matching principles
are followed on a temporal basis. The short term credit potential is defined
as a function primarily of the behavior of short term balance sheet items.
Likewise, the liquid investment potential which is applied to the longer term
is derived largely from the projected behavior of long term assets as well as
of certain specified short term items. A former emphasis on matching short
term assets and short term liabilities on a one-to-one basis has been somewhat
relaxed, but banks are supposed to use at least 20% of their short term re-
sources for the satisfaction of borrowers' seasonal or other short term working
capital requirements not exceeding three months in length, and to provide at
least another 15% of their short term resources for financing the permanent
working capital requirements of borrowers in loans extended for up to two years.
In addition, loans to individuals for consumption and certain other purposes
and to enterprises for the financing of retail trade are viewed as being



ANNEX 2
Page 5
financed by the deposits of individuals, with an emphasis on not permitting
advances of the types specified to exceed the resource base provided by
citizens' deposits. Ideally, matching of this type is effected on the level
of each branch.
8.        On a day to day basis banks manage their liquidity positions on four
different levels of activity. The first is the coordination of the positions
of individual branches, which is one of the benefits perceived to flow from
the strategy of concentration in banking. The 25 banks which existed in
Yugoslavia in 1973 traced their period of decentralization and specialization
which began in 1955. The extreme decentralization reflected in the existence
of more than 200 banks was ended by a movement towards concentration to
strengthen the banking system and to create larger banks to serve larger
borrowers, among other goals. The second level of liquidity management is
the interbank short term funds market where transactions are conducted which
have a tenor rarely exceeding 30 days. This market operates between large
banks and also through the Association of Banks, a type of trade association,
and also there are no externally imposed restrictions on interbank indebted-
ness. The market appears to operate without the benefit of dealers and
trading accounts by principle, and hence only matches bona fide primary sur-
plus and deficit positions. The third is through recourse to the National
Bank. However, the use of this means of maintaining liquidity is discouraged
by the rigorous terms - a penal interest rate and the limitation on borrowings
to ten working days a month, applied to branches on a republic or provincial
basis. The fourth level of adjustments available for liquidity management is
the curtailing of long term lending, which in times of tightness is accorded
lower priority than the maintenance of short term disbursement programs. It
should be noted that the Reserve Fund of each Yugoslav bank must be kept in the
form of cash or in the form of obligations of the National Bank or the Federal
Republic.
9.        Certain aspects of Yugoslav bank management are difficult to pene-
trate, and these relate to the planning mechanism or process in Yugoslavia.
It is not known on exactly what basis founders agree on the allocation of
resources in each bank's annual plan. Another area which is unclear is the
extent to which the management of a branch or a bank takes initiatives in
matters of resource allocation. Complete control nominally rests exclusively
with the founders, but is however, substantially shared with bank management,
which with its accumulated expertise exercises a certain amount of independent
initiative in day to day operations. The nature and scope of this initiative
is difficult to assess. But proposed changes in the banking legislation
suggest that the tendency for banks to develop a life of their own exists and
is regarded as excessive.
Accounting Conventions and Information
10.       Bank accounting in Yugoslavia is substantially different from
that generally accepted in Western countries. The major differences in the
Yugoslav system and the difficulties in reconciling these differences with
Western presentations are summarized below:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(a) The branches of the banks prepare their own balance sheets
(including net worth accounts) and income statements. In
the preparation of statements for a bank as a whole, the
individual balance sheet items of its branches are often
combined without any consolidating entries to eliminate
interbranch transactions;
(b) Bank financial statements include funds they manage at no
risk on a commission basis on behalf of local authorities
(socio-political organizations). These are not included,
however, in the financial data supplied by the banks to IBRD;
(c) Short term loans are defined as having maturities of up to
two years. Data on maturities of less than two years on
loans of original tenor exceeding two years is not aggre-
gated, and it is therefore impossible to separate current
and long term positions strictly according to normal account-
ing definitions;
(d) Accounts are maintained for each loan classified by purpose
and/or source of funds (e.g. loans for fixed assets or for
specific working capital items, and loans from Federal funds,
republic funds, etc.). A borrower may have numerous loans
outstanding, and no routine record is presently kept by a
bank of its total exposure to any one borrower. All a bank's
accounts are maintained by the Social Accounting Service;
(e) The banks observe strict confidentiality as regards financial
information received from their clients. They cannot disclose
a client's financial data without the consent of the client
concerned;
(f) Banks do not generally attempt to make a periodic assessment
of potential losses within their loan portfolios. Annual
appropriations to the Reserve Fund can be considered as
provisions against losses, but are not the result of a
case-by-case review of their loans outstanding;
(g) The appropriation for reserves is not treated as an expense
item in determining the bank's net income. The banks, how-
ever, are required by law to write-off, against income, 25%
of their total uncollected interest overdue by 45 days or
more at the end of a year.
Audits
11.       The Social Accounting Service (SDK) is responsible for the audit of
all enterprises, including the banks, in terms of Yugoslav law. The audit is
mostly in the form of a certification that the banks' and enterprises' opera-
tions are within the various legal requirements, that the statements are in



ANNEX 2
Page 7
agreement with the records kept by the banks and correct charges of interest,
allocation of net income, etc. have been made. There is no verification
of the existence of the various assets and liabilities to the banks and no
opinion on whether they are fairly treated. In addition to the SDK, the
banks are subject to inspections by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which
ensures, from time to time, that the banks comply with the regulations on
foreign-exchange transactions and special deposit requirements.
12.       Normal audit by SDK does not conform to internationally accepted
standards, but SDK has implemented a training program for its staff, with the
Bank's support, to undertake internationally accepted audits of Yugoslav banks.
Full audits for all PBs will not become available until after the end of the
disbursement period of the Project, given the number of banks involved in
SDK's program and the difficulties in verification posed by the scope of the
banks' operations and the absence of conventional auditing by international
standards at the level of enterprises which borrow from the banks.
The Proposed Banking Law
13.       During the disbursement period of the Project the Yugoslav banking
system is expected to experience a reorganization. The draft banking law
which has been under discussion in Yugoslavia and which is expected to be
enacted in a form quite close to that contained in the draft, has as its
object the greater integration of the banks with the needs of their founders.
The law is consistent with the Yugoslav view that financial resources should
be controlled directly by the workers who use these resources in the produc-
tion process, and with the M4arxist dogma that these resources arise from
or that their existence is made possible by the contribution of labor as
a factor of production. Implementation of the law should not change any
of the fundamental principles of financial philosophy in Yugoslavia--on
the contrary, it should increase the scope of their application.
14.       With respect to form, the law recasts the banking structure into
three tiers. The first tier is the internal bank (of which several are already
in existence) which in its most common form will be in effect a centralized
financial information unit and internal payments clearing center in a kombinat.
The liquidity positions of the organizations in each kombinat are to be moni-
tored centrally by the kombinat's internal bank. Through the monitoring
system, surpluses and deficits in cash positions of constituent units will be
netted out and borrowing and repayment arrangements will be coordinated. The
aspects of self-finance promoted by the formation of internal banks are rela-
tively innovative in the Yugoslav context. An internal bank is not in a
position to create credit, but merely acts as a financial service center for
the kombinat which formed it. As such, the contribution of internal banks is
expected to be the strengthening of the organizations they serve. Internal
banks are expected to be empowered to operate savings accounts for workers and
also to mobilize citizens' savings for specific purposes related to the produc-
tion of the kombinat the internal bank serves.
15.       The second tier of the banking structure will consist of basic banks
which will be organized on a local basis to serve the needs of a small number



ANNEX 2
Page 8
of founder kombinats or basic organizations of associated labor (Annex 1, para.
19) and the community of workers and others in the immediate vicinity of the
production activities of the founders. Basic banks will conform to the pattern
of retail commercial banks as conventionally perceived and be the only compre-
hensive type of banking organization. However, basic banks will tend to be
unit operations or consist of only a small number of branches.
16.       The third tier of the banking structure will be composed of asso-
ciated banks which will consist of at least three basic banks united for
specified purposes. Basic banks will delegate certain functions to the asso-
ciated bank to which they belong, such as foreign borrowing (for the account
of a specific borrower only), arranging syndications and cofinancing, and
undertaking or coordinating feasibility studies, etc. Associated banks will
also serve their founder basic banks by facilitating the flow of resources
between founders in a manner similar to that seen in the activities of in-
ternal banks, at the kombinat level.
17.       Implementation of the new banking legislation will occur slowly.
The constraints of staff and the expertise required to establish internal
banks will ensure that the presently limited number of such banks will expand
at only a moderate pace. Likewise, the head offices of the present business
banks (commercial banks), such as those that participate in the Project, will
be transformed into associated banks, and it will require time to reorganize
and decentralize the present structure into associated and basic banks 1/.
In fact, the portion of the proposed legislation relating to associated banks
is scheduled for discussion in 1977, and it is unlikely that major organiza-
tional changes will be fully implemented before 1978.
18.       With respect to substance, the banks' role is seen as shifting more
towards that of financial service units. Credit decision-making will be decen-
tralized to the basic bank level to the extent possible. Founders will retain
greater direct control over their working balances and surplus funds through
the mechanism of the internal bank and through the advice of earmarked deposits
with basic banks, allocated for specific purposes only. Within basic bank
decision making structures, the role of Credit Committees having a composition
including bank management, will be de-emphasized while the role of Executive
Committees composed of representatives of founders will be enhanced. While
the rationalization of financial resource use implied by these structural
changes would appear to remove deposits from basic and associated banks, the
bankers interviewed indicated that a decline in deposits would be unlikely
to occur because of the growth of the economy, the slow rate of formation
projected for internal banks and because of the importance of the deposits
of the individuals in the banks' resources.
1/   Udruzena Banka Zagreb, a participating bank, was founded and begun
operations in 1972 as an associated bank, and reportedly served as
a prototype for the proposed legislation.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
C. The Agricultural Credit System in Yugoslavia
Credit to the Social Sector
19.       The social sector is defined to consist entirely of social sector
enterprises, many of which are agroindustrial kombinats which are vertically
integrated from farms through retail outlets and cooperatives (Annex 1, paras
18-19). Finance for investment by social sector enterprises comes from three
main sources:
(a) self finance by the investor;
(b) debt from a variety of sources, including trade credit,
suppliers credits, the business banks of which the bor-
rowers are usually founders, loans from special funds
operated by Federal, Republic and Provincial authorities,
and direct finance from other kombinats; and
(c) minor sources, including Government grants.
20.       Statistics pertaining to investment by social sector agroindustrial
kombinats and including the entire range of their investments, some of which
may not be related to agriculture because of the conglomerated nature of
certain kombinats, indicate that self finance and debt have each supported
between approximately 40% and 50% of investments in fixed assets over the
Plan periods extending from 1966 to 1975.
Plan Period      Investment Expenditures         Self-      Debt    Grants and
for Fixed Assets          Finance                  Misc.
1966-1970         Din 10,611 million             39%        49%         12%
1971-1975         Din 24,310 million             48%        43%          9%
Large scale investments in new facilities typically involve a lower participa-
tion of self-finance than suggested by the aggregated figures above. Rela-
tively large outlays for plant and equipment and working capital rely heavily
on debt. It is estimated that roughly 80% of the investment undertaken in
social sector agriculture and agroindustry over the 1966-1975 planning periods
was financed by sources external to the investing kombinats. Published sta-
tistics do not permit a precise specification of debt according to type or
source, but brief summaries indicate the scope and conditions attached to
major sources.
21.       Trade credit has been a financial pressure point in the Yugoslav
economy, as suggested by the implementation of a law in March 1976 specifying
standard payment terms between enterprises. Cash shortages manifest them-
selves in the accumulation of accounts payable, which then spread throughout
the economy with trade between production units. Such accumulations result
in many enterprises' being unable to meet their obligations to domestic trade
creditors in a timely manner. This is the most general characteristic of



ANNEX 2
Page 10
the liquidity problem. The legislation put into effect in 1976 provided
for the netting out of positions of firms and acceleration of the rate of
settlement of trade debts to a uniform period of about 15 days. However,
the statute also permitted settlement via 90 day bills of exchange, and
since the introddction of the new regime there has been a general movement
towards the adoptioa of this hitherto relatively little used means of
settlement.
22.       Suppliers credits are widely used in transactions involving the
acquisition of capital requirement from abroad. Users of suppliers credits
may be required to make dinar deposits at the National Bank for a certain
portion of the value of the credits obtained. In cases requiring such
deposits, the proportion ranges up to 25%, depending upon the type of goods
obtained, the usance period, and whether the Yugoslavian principal to the
transaction is located in a developed or less developed region.
23.       Banks provide loans to their founders in accordance with the in-
vestment plans of their founders, which are included in the enterprise plans
which constitute, inter alia, the basis for economic planning in Yugoslavia;
and also in accordance with the banks' own positions. Most borrowers which
are social legal persons are also founders of the bank from which they borrow,
and a few large borrowers may be founders of several banks. Agrobusiness
finance is also provided by special funds organized at the federal, republic
and provincial levels. These funds are designed to support investment in
the developed areas, while in the less developed regions the "Federation Fund
for Crediting Development of Economically Insufficiently Developed Republics
and Provinces", hereafter referred to as the Federal Fund, predominates.
24.       The Federal Fund has been constituted largely by subscriptions
by enterprises in the form of obligatory loans on terms of 15 years at 4%.
Federal budgetary sources were also tapped to meet a Din 2.4 billion short-
fall in Fund resources during the 1971-1975 period, and it is envisaged that
enterprises may also contribute to the Fund as investors according to self-
management agreements. The Fund places its resources at the disposal of
business banks in three of the four less developed areas on terms of 14 years
at 4.166% with a grace period of three years, and in Kosovo at 17-1/2 years
at 3%, also with a grace period of three years. The banks on-lend these funds
for specified purposes on slightly more rigorous terms, and are liable for re-
payment regardless of the fortunes of the investments financed.
25.       The Federal Fund is expected to disburse more than Din 50 billion
(in 1975 Dinars), equal to approximately 2% of the social product, during the
1976-1980 planning period. It will finance roughly 30% of all investments
in fixed assets (agriculture and others) in the beneficiary regions, varying
from a projected 16% in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 24% in Macedonia, 28% in
Montenegro to 60% in Kosovo.
Credit for Individual Sector Farmers
26.       An estimated 80% of Yugoslavia's primary production in the agricul-
tural sector occurs on individual farms. While a significant portion of this



ANNEX 2
Page II
production is consumed on the farm and sold privately to consumers in local
markets by the producers themselves, the remainder is sold to social sector
units engaged in food processing and marketing. Accordingly, the links be-
tween these social sector units and the individual producers are key elements
in the food economy. As under the First Agricultural Credit Project, a
project goal is to strengthen the links between the agroindustrial sector
and primary producers in the individual farmer sector.
27.       Credit is one vehicle for strengthening these links.  Institutional
credit is in general not available to individual farmers as individuals, but
only to them on the basis of their affiliation with a cooperative or a social
sector enterprise. Credit may be extended to individual farmers by a kombinat
as part of an agreement to cooperate or marketing contract, whereby the farmer
agrees to deliver all of his produce of a specified type to a social sector
agroindustrial processing firm at a price which is specified at the start
of the season. Contracts of this type generally involve a commitment of
the farmer to cooperate for a five year period, although the contractual
obligation is fixed for one year only.
28.       Individual farmers find it useful to cooperate for several reasons.
These include their limited access to markets without the assistance of an
intermediary, which is a social sector unit. In addition, their incomes are
constrained by reliance on self-finance, and credit is largely unavailable,
except through cooperation with the social sector.
29.       The social sector units find it useful to contract with individual
producers to secure sources of supply to supplement primary production in
the social sector itself, to realize economies of scale in processing and
retailing, to obtain a larger flow of raw materials to justify increased
capital investment and hopefully increased returns per worker, and to in-
crease their degree of penetration in the market for processed products.
30.       Social sector units are frequently dependent upon their banks for
the resources required to finance loans to farmers for increases in herds
and for the acquisition of capital equipment and the construction of build-
ings. This dependence reflects the general liquidity problem. Cooperation
between the individual farmer and social sectors has probably been limited
by the shortage of funds facing many social sector units, which appears to
have resulted in a rationing of funds in favor of investment in the social
sector for primary production and for processing, rather than in strengthen-
ing the links between the social agroindustrial sector and the individual
agricultural sector. In addition, these links have remained relatively under-
developed because the skills required to organize the necessary marketing
mechanisms and qualifications found in agroindustry which are largely tech-
nical and oriented towards engineering and agriculture.
31.       In addition, the establishment of sound links requires the social
sector purchaser to be able to perform consistently in terms of accepting
delivery and ensuring prompt payment. This type of consistency is probably
easiest to achieve in the case of products with an almost continuous produc-
tion cycle, such as dairying. It appears most difficult to achieve in the
cases of products which have a short season, and short shelf life, such as



ANNEX 2
Page 12
early vegetables, and which are consequently subject to large production
and price variation.
D. Proiect Implementation Capacity
Performance Under the First Agricultural Credit Project
32.       The institutional structure of the proposed Project is identical
to that developed and utilized under the First Agricultural Credit Project,
and the risks of non-performance and implementational difficulties are there-
fore very substantially reduced. The lead bank role is filled by Vojvodjanska
Banka (VB), with its head office in Novi Sad, Vojvodina Province.
33.       VB's Business Policy and other decisions of its Founders Assembly
guide its operations each year. Investment proposals that enterprises submit
to VB for financing are appraised and approved in a branch office, or in the
head office, depending on the size or complexity of the loans. VB's exposure
or the exposure of any of its branches to a single client should not exceed
30% of total outstanding loans, and no one borrower accounts for more than
10% of its total portfolio. VB operates as a mixed commercial/investment
bank and is authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Supervision of loans,
with regard to borrowers' financial positions and procurement arrangements,
is satisfactory, but could usefully be expanded to include more areas of
dialogue with borrowers. Disbursement procedures are sound. The other par-
ticipating banks include Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) in Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Udruzena Banka Zagreb (UBZ) in Croatia, Kosovka Banka Pristina (KBP) in Kosovo
Province, Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) in Macedonia. Investiciona Banka
Titograd (IBT) in Montenegro, Beogradska Banka (BB) in Serbia Proper, and
Ljubljanska Banka (LB) in Slovenia. These banks are with one exception
classified as business banks and are among the top 15 in terms of size in
Yugoslavia. The exception is UBZ, which is an associated bank. Its own
staff consists of fewer than 30, yet it is classified as the largest bank in
Yugoslavia based on the size of the combined resources of the five Croatian
business banks which are its founders.
34.       Performance under the First Project has been generally satisfactory
and the pace of implementation has accelerated over its life. Effectiveness
occurred on February 12, 1976, and by March 1977 about 50% of the US$50 mil-
lion IBRD Loan under the Project had been committed by the participating
banks. The entire Loan is expected to be fully committed in the second half
of 1977, about only 18 months following effectiveness. Completion, targeted
for June 30, 1979, will probably be substantially achieved on schedule.
35.       Experience under the First Project has demonstrated that the least
difficulty is experienced in implementation after several conditions were ful-
filled. The first is that the responsibility for implementation be squarely
placed in both the participating bank and also in the Ministry of Agriculture
in the republic or province concerned. At the participating bank level this
has generally meant the formation of a special unit to deal with subproject



ANNEX 2
Page 13
appraisals or else the strengthening of any agricultural unit which may al-
ready be operative. Implementational responsibility has been effectively
carried out only in those areas in which subproject preparation has been
handled out of participating banks' head offices, and by the final quarter
in 1976 all of the participating banks had made satisfactory arrangements
in this regard. The subproject appraisal requirements of the First Project
placed extraordinary demands upon participating banks relative to conven-
tional loan appraisal techniques for the agricultural and agroindustrial
sectors, necessitating these developments. At the level of provincial and
repdblic ministries of agriculture, the First Project also required substan-
tial efforts at coordination. Senior officials, usually advisors and under-
secretaries, have been given specific responsibilities for the First Project
and their role in promoting subproject identification and preparation at the
level of social sector subborrowers has been essential to project success.
36.       A second condition for successful implementation has been enthusiasm
for the Project at the federal level, with monitoring to secure the achieve-
ment of commitment targets. The Federal Committee for Agriculture has been
the focal point for Project affairs coordination and promotion, which have
required a major portion of the efforts of the Undersecretary of the Federal
Committee and of certain members of his staff.
37.       A third condition for successful implementation has been the desig-
nation of a lead bank, which is Vojvodjanska Banka. While it was envisaged
by IBRD that the lead bank would exert very strong influence by acting as a
step in the loan approval process, the modus operandi which has developed is
one of VB's making a strong coordination to the preparation of subprojects
by the prior training and briefing of those in borrowing kombinats and in
participating banks who are directly involved in putting together subproject
proposals. This system has demonstrated its viability under Yugoslav con-
ditions, and VB's role would be continued and expanded under the Second
Project. VB's inputs have included training seminars and discussions, and
the exchange of information on an informal basis with participating banks
and subborrowers, as well as the more narrowly administrative tasks involved
in its leadership role.
The Role of Vojvodjanska Banka as Lead Bank
38.       Although a small bank--it ranks sixth in portfolio size among the
eight banks involved--VB is the most highly specialized in agricultural lend-
ing in terms of the proportion of its portfolio outstanding to agriculture.
Precise figures for comparison are difficult to derive because records of ac-
tivities are kept largely on a disbursement rather than on a loan outstanding
basis, but it would appear that more than 25% of VB's portfolio is outstand-
ing to agriculture and to agroindustry, while none of the other participating
banks would have an exposure of this sort in excess of 15%.
39.       Project implementation is the responsibility of a Project Unit con-
sisting of 16 established posts and headed by a Director who has an organiza-
tional status similar to that of an Assistant General Manager, of which VB
has only four (see the organization charts of VB and of the Project Unit in



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Appendix 1). As of December 1976 four of the 16 Project Unit posts remained
vacant, although two of these positions were for loan supervision officers
whose responsibilities had not yet been phased in because the evolution of
the project cycle had not yet generated many subloans to supervise. Other
vacant posts included that of Advisor and that of Senior Officer--Agricultural
Credit. At the time of appraisal efforts were underway to fill these posi-
tions.
40.       Under the proposed Project the Project Unit will be expanded by the
addition of a procurement specialist, who will be responsible for assisting
participating banks and their borrowers under the project in the procurement
of goods and services locally and internationally. The procurement specialist
will become involved in agroindustrial subproject proposals at an early stage
in their development and supervise all aspects of such investments and their
appraisal which relate to procurement. He will also assist in the prepara-
tion of tender and related documents to be submitted to IBRD at stages prior
to the presentation of Loan withdrawal applications.
41.       The Project Unit consists of two Divisions.  One is concerned with
subproject appraisal, while the other is concerned with "implementation",
defined to include disbursements, records, legal aspects and supervision.
Both Divisions are headed by senior operating personnel with considerable
experience in VB and are staffed with qualified specialists largely in mid-
career. It is not expected that the nature or role of the Project Unit will
be changed for the Second Project. Some additional established posts may be
required, however, especially on the "implementation" side, as the volume
of loans outstanding increases.
42.       The Second Project will provide an opportunity for VB to expand its
activities in acquainting an increasing number of economists with the sub-
project appraisal methodology recommended by IBRD. The economists at whom
orientation and training programs should be aimed are found mainly in par-
ticipating banks, in kombinats which are in a position to receive Project
funds, and in ministries of agriculture. VB's responsibility for formal and
informal training inputs should be supported by IBRD in the form of EDI places
at an early stage in the life of the Project and by assistance at training
seminars in the form of material, and perhaps also through inputs from visit-
ing missions, as under the First Project.
E. Financial Characteristics of Vojvodjanska Banka
and Participating Banks
General
43.       Financial data supplied by the eight participating banks is sum-
marized in Tables 1-5. For each bank balance sheet and income statement data



ANNEX 2
Page 15
are given for the years ending from 1973 to 1975 1/. The data should be
interpreted with caution, especially in those cases in which the material
was provided by the banks themselves rather than by the Social Accounting
Service team which has begun partial audits of some of the banks according to
generally accepted accounting standards. Some of the financial data are com-
bined from the statements for each of the branches of a bank, which probably
introduces the most serious distortion by failing to eliminate inter-branch
items. Others may not be presented on a consistent basis by failing to pro-
vide restatements of past data to adjust for mergers which occurred over the
period. Missing data for 1973 for one bank reportedly reflects the failure
of that bank's recording system to accommodate the effects of a merger which
occurred during that year, and this type of extreme situation indicates that
caution is required when dealing with financial data supplied by Yugoslav
banks. Even the data provided in the conventional Western format by the
Social Accounting Service auditing team does not carry an unqualified opinion
by the auditors "because of the limitation of scope" of their examinatibn,
resulting largely from difficulties in verifying data with the bank's clients.
It will be several years before full audits and unqualified opinions can be
considered.
44.       Projections for the years 1976-1980 are included in each table.
These should be viewed within the context in which they were generated. Not
all of the projections supplied by the banks balanced, some contained mathe-
matical errors, and none contained reconciliations of net worth. Where pro-
jections prepared by participating banks fell short of conventional Western
bookkeeping standards, the data presented includes considerable input by
IBRD staff. Growth assumptions generally appear modest relative to recent
rates of growth reported by the banks concerned, and officials of several
banks indicated they expected bank assets to expand at the same rate at which
the Material Project for their Republic or Province was planned to expand
over the planning period through 1980.
45.       Analysis of the data provided gives a general indication of the
financial nature of banking in Yugoslavia, as reflected in the financial struc-
ture and performance of the eight banks. In addition, analysis permits the
identification of some interesting differences among these banks which relates
to the different types of regional economies they serve and the differing man-
ner in which they cater to the needs of their founders. The assumption em-
ployed throughout the analysis is that the data are presented consistently
and give a true valuation of the conditions they portray or project.
Financial Analysis of Vojvodjanska Banka
46.       Size and Capital Structure.  Annual financial statements for the
period 1973-75 indicate that VB is a growing institution. In current Dinar
terms, the compound annual growth rate in total assets over the 24 month
1/   Earlier data from the First Agricultural Credit Project Appraisal Report
is not repeated here. Several banks appear to have altered their report-
ing basis between the preparation of this and the earlier Project report.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
period was almost 32% (item x.01 in Table 1), which even after adjusting for
inflation at about 24% in 1974 and 18% in 1975 represents significant expan-
sion. This growth has occurred more rapidly in liability than in capital
accounts, with the result that the Capital to Assets Ratio 1/ declined from
12.5% to 9.1% over the period (x.23). More than half of VB's liabilities
(2.20) are at short term (2.05) which is defined to include original maturi-
ties at less than two years, and their relative importance grew between 1973
and 1975. Sight deposits (2.02) comprise the largest class of short-term
liabilities. Loans from Banks and Other Sources (including IBRD) (2.11) con-
stitute the largest single class of Long Term Liabilities (2.15) contributing
almost half of this term category, while Time Deposits (2.10) and Loans from
Provincial Funds (2.12) provide the balance.
47.       Asset Structure and Liquidity.  Almost 90% of VB's assets consist
of financial assets (1.30). The proportion of loans outstanding extended at
short term (less than two years) (1.04) has increased dramatically over the
period under review as suggested by a rise in the Banking Asset Structure
Ratio 2/ from 40.8% to 48.2% (x.53). However, both short term (1.04) and
long term (more than two years) loans outstanding (1.13) have increased sig-
nificantly in Dinar terms. The level of liquidity maintained relative to
1/   Capital to Assets Ratio.  Assets are defined as total assets.  Capital is
defined as Net Worth including the Founder's Fund, Reserve Fund, Business
Fund and other funds which will be categorized as Funds of the Bank as a
Working Organization following the enactment of the new Banking Law in
1977. One of the difficulties which arises in dealing with Net Worth
in the context of Yugoslav banking is that certain of the funds are
earmarked for specific purposes and therefore may not serve as a general
reservoir of protection for bank's creditors. Another is that contribu-
tions to the Founder's Fund are not permanent and distributions from
Founders' funds have reduced the size of this account by small amounts
from one period to the next in several cases among the eight banks
included in the Project.
2/   Banking Assets Structure Ratio.  This measure, which expresses Short-Term
Risk Assets as a percentage of Total Banking Assets, measures the degree
to which a bank is "commercial", i.e. the extent to which its banking
assets are lent at short term. A high ratio shows a greater emphasis on
a short-term lending, a loan ratio a lesser emphasis. Most of the banks
consider short term maturities to extend to two years. As records are
kept on the basis of original term to maturity the banks could not
specify the current portion of their long term lending. Hence, the
ratio conservatively overstates the maturity structure of a bank's
portfolio. On the other hand, certain facilities extended at short
term are in fact permanent sources of finance for borrowers in spite
of having a turnover within the short term.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
deposit liabilities is small, as indicated by Deposit Run-Off Ratios 1/ of
less than 1% (x.37). Most of primary reserves consist of statutory reserves
held with the National Bank (1.02). Liquidity is assisted by certain types
of Short-Term Borrowings (2.01) which funded approximately 10% of Total Bank-
ing Assets (1.30) as shown on year-end balance sheets for 1973 through 1975.
48.        Income Analysis.  Income Statements show that financial expenses
(item 5.30 in Table 2) consume about 70% of VB's Total Operating Income (5.10),
although the level of these expenses fell to 66.6% in 1975. Administrative
Expenses (5.50) trended upwards over the period from 10.9% to 11.8% of income,
with Salaries and Related Expenses (5.41) rising at a more rapid rate than the
growth of income. The before-tax Net Operating Surplus (5.70) stood at ap-
proximately 20% of Total Operating Income (5.10) over the period, with the
best results achieved in 1975. The Return on Total Assets trended upwards
from 1.0% to 1.2% over the period (x.83). Viewed from the cooperative basis
of Yugoslav banking, it is not possible to say whether these measures reflect
changes in operating efficiency, as the provision of better services to
founders might be viewed as salutory even if its impact on the income state-
ment were adverse. However, it is apparent that the operations of VB over
the period yielded an increasing Return on Net Worth (x.73). In terms of
this criteria VB was substantially more profitable in 1975 than in 1973, as
the rate of return rose from 7.6% to 13.4%. Of even greater interest is the
fact that the Return to Net Worth is projected to rise to 22.5%, three times
the 1973 level, by 1980, which leads to a review of the projected financial
statements.
49.        Financial Projections Analysis.  The financial analysis submitted
by VB show ony minor variations from straight line and constant proportion
assumptions, with the following important exceptions. The rate of growth in
Total Assets (1.50) is expected to decline from a level of about 35% in 1975
and 1976 to about 15% per annum by 1980. The decline is tied to planning
1/   Deposit Run-Off Ratio.  This ratio shows the percentage decline in total
deposits which could be met from Minimum Risk Assets alone.  The ratio
gives an indication of the extent to which a bank can rely on its own
Minimum Risk Assets rather than using short-term borrowing or other
sources of funds to meet deposit withdrawals. The higher the ratio
the greater the ability of the bank to meet such demands from its prim-
ary reserves of liquidity, which consist of Cash and Banks, and Deposits
with the National Bank. This ratio is computed by an algebraic method
which assumes deposits withdrawals would be met by the total depletion
of Cash and Banks plus that portion of Deposits with the National Bank
which would be released by a decline in deposits. A simplifying assump-
tion is that withdrawals would affect all classes of deposit liabilities
proportionately. Any actual withdrawals would probably affect different
classes unevenly, with a resulting uneven release of statutory reserves
because of the different reserve requirements specified for different
types of deposits. The assumption that banks' deposits with the
National Bank include only statutory reserves and that excess reserves
are not carried is largely justified in Yugoslav conditions.



ANNEX 2
Page 18
targets in Vojvodina and to expectations of a lower rate of inflation. The
role of capital is expected to be de-emphasized, as suggested by a decline in
the Capital to Assets Ratio (x.20) from 9.1% in 1975 to 5.2% in 1980, which
is part of the explanation for the steady growth of the Return to Net Worth
(x.73). Liquidity is expected to increase markedly with increases in primary
reserves in spite of an expected decline in the proportion of total deposits
absorbed by statutory reserve requirements (x.33). However, liquidity is still
projected to remain at low levels. The Deposit Run-Off Ratio (x.37) is ex-
pected to be only 1.5% in 1980, after a jump from 0.6% in 1975 to 1.2% in 1976.
The loan portfolio is expected to show a slightly increased emphasis on the
expansion of long term rather than short term lending, which is consistent
with VB's role as lead bank under the Project.
Comparative Analysis of Participating Banks
50.       Balance Sheet Relationships.  Tables 4 and 5 show the values of cer-
tain key variables from participating banks' financial statements. Between
1973 and 1975 most of the banks grew rapidly in dinar terms. Four increased
their total assets by more than 35% during 1975. In almost all cases deposit
liabilities grew faster than total assets during this period, with deposit
growth rates exceeding 50% per year recorded in certain cases. The growth of
bank capital failed to keep pace with overall expansion, and Capital to Asset
Ratios declined from a mean level of roughly 9.7% to a mean of about 7.8%.
Other ratios likewise indicate a general tightening of financial relationships,
reflecting the demands of rapid expansion a well as the possibility of increased
efficiency in banking. Liquidity, as suggested by the deposit run-off ratio,
declined, with the greatest decreases registered in 1974, a year in which
credit was reportedly tight. In conformity with the decline in the Capital
to Assets Ratio, the cushion against portfolio illiquidity, as indicated by
the Portfolio Shrinkage Ratio 1/, also declined. With these changes, banks
probably tended to move slightly towards shorter maturities in their lending
portfolios, as suggested by the increase in the Banking Asset Structure Ratio.
This movement is also consistent with the efforts then underway to work down
the backlog of trade credit in the economy, which would have tended to in-
crease the demand for short term relative to long term credit.
1/   Portfolio Shrinkage Ratio.  This ratio is computed by decucting Minimum
Risk Assets (primary or liquidity reserves) from both Total Banking
Assets and Total Liabilities and dividing the residual on the asset
side by the residual on the liability side. One minus the resulting
percentage is the Portfolio Shrinkage Ratio, which measures the maxi-
mum possible percentage loss in Banking Assets other than Minimum Risk
Assets which would permit the liquidation of all liabilities. The
higher the ratio the larger the loss in value of its loan portfolio
a bank could sustain and still remain technically able to meet the
claims of its creditors from its portfolio.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
51.       With respect to the types of intermediation provided by the various
banks, negative Term Transformation Ratios 1/ indicate that some of the smaller
banks tend to borrow long and lend short. This reflects their dependence upon
Federal Funds resources. The relatively high liquidity positions of several
of the smaller banks, as seen in Deposit Run-Off Ratios, are indicative of
difficulties encountered in disbursing these funds for investment at the same
rate at which these funds were received. However, the relative liquidity
position of these banks also tended to become somewhat smaller over the
period, indicating that the backlog of Federal Funds may be diminishing in
relative terms. The banks in developed areas and Banka Privredna Sarajevo
tend to follow the normal patterr of borrowing short and lending long.
52.       It appears that the trend towards expansion and increasing tight-
ness in key financial relationships is expected to continue through 1980.
Growth in Total Assets is expected at a more moderate rate than experienced
between 1973 and 1975. The tendency for the smaller banks to grow the most
rapidly in relative terms is expected to be less pronounced by 1980. Deposit
Liabilities are projected to continue to expand more rapidly than other lia-
bilities and net worth taken as a whole. Net Worth will play an increasingly
minor role as a basis for expansion and as a cushion for creditors, which is
consistent with the tone of the proposed banking legislation which is intended
to diminish the potential for independent action by the banks and tie them
more closely to the financial flows of their founders.
53.       The pattern of lending is expected to change slightly in favor of
relatively more short term lending in the smaller banks, as indicated by the
increasing banking Asset Structure Ratio, while the relationship between short
term and long term lending is expected to remain fairly stable in the larger
banks. The Term Transformation Ratio exhibits a mixed pattern among the banks.
Some expect to increase their dependence upon short term resources for financ-
ing long-term lending, while others expect little change or a decrease in such
dependence.
54.       The projections indicate that the banking system will be increasingly
tight by 1980, with lower margins to accommodate unexpected events. Whether
the system can operate on such a basis while continuing to meet the needs of
its founders and the public at the same level provided during 1973-1975 de-
pends upon several factors. If the system is more efficient, it should be
able to operate on a tighter basis. If the system has more recourse to the
central bank or to outside sources of liquidity, it should also be able to
operate on a tighter basis. In addition, lower margins would be justified
by better integration of the Yugoslav economy if such integration resulted
1/   Term Transformation Ratio.  This ratio is a measure of the extent to which
a bank borrows short and lends long. One of the main risks of banking
arises from intermediating between those having financial resources
placed at sight and those borrowing for a specified period. This ratio
measures term transformation by subtracting Short Term Risk Assets from
Current Liabilities and dividing the difference by Short Term Liabilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 20
in the reduction of risk and in smoother financial flows through the banking
systems.
55.       Income Statement Analysis.  During the period 1973-1975 the par-
ticipating banks experienced increases in Total Operating Income of between
8% and 47% annually, with rates above 25% being normal. While in 1974 Total
Operating Income grew more rapidly than Total Assets, in 1975 the opposite
situation was the most common. Projected Total Operating Income is expected
to grow somewhat less rapidly in the period through 1980, and generally at a
declining rate of increase. This prediction is consistent with the cooperative
basis of Yugoslav banking under which the founders who are also the major bor-
rowers attempt to keep the costs of borrowing low, preferring cheap credit to
distributions of earnings from their investment in captive banks.
56.       Financial Expenses consumed between 55% and 84% of the total operat-
ing income of participating banks on an annual basis between 1973 and 1975,
with rates of 60% to 75% being the most common. Financial Expenses as a per-
centage of Total Operating Income tended to decline over the period, and this
trend is expected to flatten out in most cases through 1980 at levels of be-
tween 65% and 75%. The pattern with respect to Administrative Expenses as a
proportion of Total Operating Income is more varied between banks for the
period 1973-1975, and participating banks projecting these costs expect them
to be fairly stable at between roughly 8% and 17% through 1980. Annual Admin-
strative Expenses equal approximately 1% or less of Total Assets of most par-
ticipating banks, are projected to remain at roughly this level, and appear
to be well controlled.
57.       Net Operating Surplus as a percentage of total operating income
ranged from between 9% and 26% over the 1973-1975 period, and is projected to
remain stable for most of the eight banks through 1980 at levels commensurate
with those achieved in 1973-1975.  However, one of the banks expects the per-
centage to decline to 2% by 1980 as efforts are undertaken to increase person-
nel costs and to pare costs borne by borrowers.
58.       The returns on Total Assets were confined to the 0.5% to 1.5% range
during the 1973-1975 period, although this range is expected to expand slightly
at both ends by 1980. During the 1973-1975 period returns on Total Assets
trended upward for most of the banks for most of the annual periods involved,
whereas for the period 1976-1980 the banks project constant or declining
returns. Most of the expected declines are small, however.
59.       Returns on Net Worth also increased markedly in most cases between
1973 and 1975, with the highest six cases ranging from 5.3% to 12.0% in 1973
and between 11.9% and 17.7% in 1975. This increase is related to the decline
in Capital to Asset Ratios over the period. While Capital to Asset Ratios are
expected to continue to decline between 1976 and 1980, the projected levels of
returns to net worth are varied--several banks expect significant increases in
this measure of profitability (up to a level exceeding 22%), several expect
relative stability in this relationship (at between 11% and 18%), while others
project declines (from 11% down to 2%). The lack of agreement on the develop-
ment of returns to net worth over the period to 1980 indicates varying



ANNEX 2
Page 21
strategies relating to the pricing of bank services to founders and to the
public, as well as somewhat varying prescriptions of the role of bank capital
within the general consensus that its financial importance will decline.
Interest Rate Strategy in the Banking System
60.       Interest rate levels appear to be associated with bank size.  Finan-
cial data for seven of the eight participating banks was submitted on a more
or less consistent basis, and these figures indicate that bigger banks tend
to charge higher average rates and also to pay more for their resources than
do smaller banks. Graph 1 shows both the average lending and borrowing rates
for 1975, computed from income statement and balance sheet information pro-
vided by the seven banks. The positions of five of the seven show virtually
a linear correlation between rates and portfolio and liability totals as shown
by visually-fitted trend lines in the graphs. The two exceptions to this rela-
tionship are the two smaller banks. Their positions are associated with their
heavy reliance on Federal Funds resources and their high levels of liquidity
(as indicated by deposit run-off ratios) which may lead them to behave dif-
ferently as regards growth strategies than the other banks not having such
preferred access. The causality, if any, of the association between interest
rate levels and bank size is not apparent from financial data, and definitive
analysis would require more resources than available for financial aspects
of project appraisal. Several alternative hypotheses may be specified, how-
ever. One is that the association is fortuitous. Another hypothesis is that
banks grow by offering more attractive interest rates to depositors, and that
founders are willing to pay more for the services of banks which can provide
them with the benefits of access to a larger pool of funds. This hypothesis
is supported by the data in Graph 2 which plots administrative costs against
average total assets and includes a visually fitted trend line. Larger banks
appear to be relatively more costly to operate than smaller banks, and there
must be some advantage in scale which offsets this diseconomy.  The possibil-
ity that larger banks have better access to more profitable lending opportuni-
ties is diminished by the fact that the asset side of Yugoslav banking is
tied to the financial demands of founders. Perhaps advantages of scale in
founders' industries create a situation in which founders' access to greater
quantities of financing are reflected in founders' enhanced ability to
supply resources to their captive banks. Possibly, the exploitation of such
economies by founders is associated with a willingness to pay more for finan-
cial resources, to incur higher administrative costs in their captive banks,
and to see higher rates of interest paid to households and others who are in
a position to provide funds to banks. The existence of an illiquidity problem
in recent Yugoslav financial history would provide a rational basis for com-
petition for funds by banks, and for the use of interest rates as one aspect
of such competition.
61.       Another hypothesis is that the average interest rates merely reflect
the structure of assets and liabilities. On the asset side, banks with rela-
tively more short term lending business (generally at 10-12%) will generally
have a higher average lending rate than those with relatively more long term
loans (generally at 3-12%) and those with relatively more loans to individuals
(generally at 8-12 1/2%) will have a higher average rate than banks lending



Graph 1                                                          Graph 2
AVERAGE LENDING AND BORROWING RATES OF INTEREST                       ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AS A PERCENT OF
FOR SEVEN PARTICIPATING BANKS IN 1975,                             AVERAGE TOTAL ASSETS IN 1975 FOR
BY MEASURES OF BANK SIZE                                 SEVEN PARTICIPATING BANKS BY BANK SIZE
80                                                               80  80
*LUBZ
70                                                               70  70
UBZ* ~ ~ ~ ~ UZ
60                                                               60  60                   L9
o                                                          0
-j             ~~~LBO                                 -J        0
50                                       ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z -J
50~~~3          4%       5%       6%      7%        8                                  %263  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z~~~
I-          ~~~~PBS
30  30 <j
>                                                                    wu
<
20                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  20
VB
KBP  KBP5
1 0                      IBT 0                 ~~~~~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~~10  10IB
IBT~~~~IT
0                                   68%0    0                                            1                 %3
AVERAGE BORROWING RATE             AVERAGE LENDING RATE            ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AS A % OF AVERIAGE TOTAL ASSETS
WVorld Bank-i17159



ANNEX 2
Page 23
relatively more to kombinats (generally at 3-12%), other things remaining
equal. On the liability side, rates on the sight and time deposits of indi-
viduals (generally at 7 1/2% and 9-10%, respectively) are higher than those
paid on deposits held by kombinats (generally 2-4% on sight and 4-10% on time
deposits). Also, banks with heavier degrees of reliance on short term borrow-
ing, which occurs at uncontrolled rates in the interbank market, will incur
greater costs for funds than banks with smaller levels of such reliance.
62.       These observations fail to explain why or how a bank's business
evolves in one direction rather than another. Does emphasis on short term
lending and retail banking constitute a better growth strategy than long term
lending and wholesale banking? Quite possibly it does, given the illiquidity
problem and the role of the household sector as a source of funds for the
social sector. Whatever its explanatory power, this hypothesis is useful
in that it points out the shortcomings of analysis incorporating assumptions
of homogeneity in the sources and uses of bank funds.
63.       An institutional approach to analysis would consist of ascertaining
how the banks came to be the sizes they are, given their evolution out of the
amalgamations of more than 200 predecessor institutions. In this respect it
should be noted that the largest bank, Udruzena Banka Zagreb, is an associated
bank. Its five constituent banks, ranging in size from extremely small to an
institution of roughly the same size as Privredna Banka Sarajevo and Stopanska
Banka Skopje, should perhaps constitute the units of analysis if consistency
is desired. However, this observation begs the question of why these five
banks, apparently with high cost and interest rate levels, associated to form
UBZ. If a smaller bank, such as Vojvodjanska Banka, were to grow through
merger or association, would its average lending and borrowing rates automati-
cally rise?
64.       In summary, bank size measured in terms of loan portfolios, total
banking assets and total liabilities appears in general to be positively asso-
ciated with the relative levels of interest income earned and interest expense
incurred by the seven participating banks for which data was provided on a
largely consistent basis. The two banks which are an exception to the general
trend are also exceptional in terms of their high liquidity, suggesting that
liquidity may offer a useful approach to analysis. Elementary manipulations of
financial data show that all of the banks have a positive interest rate spread,
that the spread tends to increase with the size of the bank. However, analysis
at this level does not provide definitive explanations of the relationship ob-
served, and this aspect of the role of interest rates in Yugoslav banking can-
not be defined with precision.
Interest Rate Policies
65.       Interest rates in Yugoslavia are characterized by their frequently
low levels, ranging from 3% to 12% on bank loans, for example, and by their
lack of uniformity across internal geographical boundaries, among banks, and
for similar types of investments. This situation raises a number of issues
which relate to the role of interest rates in economic and financial decision



ANNEX 2
Page 24
making in Yugoslavia. They influence resource allocation through the selec-
tion of investment alternatives, and the choice of technique. Interest rates
also influence resource mobilization through selection of one financial asset
rather than another by savers or those with working balances to invest, the
levels of accumulation at various levels of investment priority, and numerous
other factors related to both allocation and mobilization. Recent interest
levels in Yugoslavia have fueled excessive investment demand and contributed
to inflation.
66.       To ascertain more fully the function of interest rates in the
Yugoslav context a study was commissioned under the First Project. The terms
of reference of the study were to analyze the interest rate structure for the
agricultural sector and to determine whether uniform interest rates would be
effective and feasible. The study was to consist of three parts:
(a) an evaluation of the impact of the existing agricultural
credit interest rates structure,
(b) a review of other factors affecting the interest rate struc-
ture, such as Government policies, the banking structure and
viewpoints of agricultural social sector enterprises and of
private farmers;
(c) in the light of the findings of parts (a) and (b), a deter-
mination of whether a uniform interest rate system is both
desirable and feasible.
67.       The study was contracted by Vojvodjanska Banka to the Institute for
Agricultural Economics in Belgrade. Their conclusions 1/ were available late
in 1976, and these indicate (a) that within the Yugoslav socio-political
system, characterized by socially owned means of production, workers' self-
management and decentralized decision-making, economic subjects independently
decide on basic issues of their activity including the volume and structure
of production, prices, size and structure of investments and financial transac-
tions; (b) that the market mechanism is essential in determining the decision
making on these matters; and (c) that individual plans of enterprises and
socio-political communities are subsequently coordinated and adjusted into a
consistent overall development plan for individual regions and the Federation
through a process of discussions and negotiations. While stressing the role
of the market in decision-making, the study does not analyze the effect of
interrelationships between market forces and institutional and political
factors on the prices. The study concludes however that heavy price distor-
tions exist. These distortions reflect a relatively broad, direct inter-
vention by the state which reduces the allocative role of the market in
general as well as of interest rate in particular.
1/   "Effects of the Interest Rate on Long-Term Agricultural Credits--Policy
of Interest Rates in General and in Agriculture in Particular," Institute
for Agricultural Economics, Belgrade, December 1976.



ANNEX 2
Page 25
68.       Review of the investment decision making process by the Appraisal
mission confirms that interest rates in Yugoslavia indeed play a role in
investment decision making at the investors' level. Interest rates are among
a number of influences which determine resource mobilization and allocation
patterns. Other influences include political and institutional factors related
mainly to the structure of the banking system, the planning process and pricing
policies at enterprise, republican and federal levels, and measures which
determine the extent to which financial resources are mobile across internal
political boundaries. Because of (a) the preceding factors and their complex
interaction, but also because of the lack of a clear statement or understand-
ing of their extent; and (b) the decentralization at the financial institutions
and/or republican levels at which interest rates are determined, interest
rates may not be used efficiently when viewed against Yugoslav economic goals.
They should be kept at levels which reflect the scarcity of capital, which
promote the mobilization of resources, and which cover the costs of lending by
banks. In addition, interest rate distortions resulting from the variations
in rates between areas, banks, investments and sectors should be eliminated
to the extent they are counter-productive in terms of planning priorities.
The method of financing investments in agriculture and agroindustry usually
involves a blending of budgetary (special funds) sources and of other sources
mobilized through banks. Budgetary sources are usually provided on conces-
sional terms, so that the effect of blending is to decrease the overall in-
terest cost to the borrowers.
69.       The study on interest rates commissioned under the First Project
does not provide a sufficient basis for deciding upon an optimal interest
rate policy in Yugoslavia. Further work remains to be done. The future study
should arrive at recommendations which would constitute the basis for a coor-
dinated policy on interest rates.  In view of the current initiative of the
Association of Yugoslav Banks to undertake a study on interest rates in
Yugoslavia, and their willingness to solicit the Bank for assistance in this
respect, it is recommended to provide the Association with the proposed terms
of reference in Appendix 2 of this Annex and request the Government and the
Association to take all appropriate action for launching an interest rate
study as soon as possible. It is further proposed under the Second Agricul-
tural Credit Project that in addition to setting the minimum rate of interest
for on-lending Bank funds at 11% per annum, floor rates of interest for the
local funds lent under the Project be instituted. While the extension of
these rates to all similar lending undertaken by the PBs would serve to
enhance the effectiveness of the Project lending, it is appreciated that
such an extension may not be appropriate until the results of the specific
study efforts outlined above are known.
70.       The rates to be applied for local funds employed under the Project
could be the blended cost to agricultural or agroindustrial borrowers of funds
provided by the banks. Assuming a blend of 50% from Federal funds or special
funds and 50% from other resources of PBs the prescribed minimal rate would
be 6% as applied to social sector subborrowers and a 5% blended rate as applied
to individual sector subborrowers. These rates are expected to ensure the
banks with a minimum return from their lending operations in agriculture of
about 2.5-3.0% on Bank funds and about 1.2% on local funds portion of their
subloans.



APPRAISUL or                                                          AmIKI  2
Table 1
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CRRDTf PRo
YUGOSLAVIA
Voivodiausb Bwka
Assets, Liabilities aed Net fbti
PR0JECTISD
1973        1974         1975               7          1977         1978         1979         1980
It_
1.00   Assets
1.01   Cash and Banks                                 18           23          43               105          142          187         202          243
1.02  C  p  its with l4ational Bank                1,212        1,315    2,            S       A5         2.774        3.171   3,920             4.071
1.03   Niniusm Risk Assets           ~~~~1,21.2    1,338        2,146            2,555        2,916       3,358        3,792        4,314
1.03   Mini_m Risk Assets                          296         45S          632.14                        068         1.16         14.480       15,902
1.04   Short Term Loans                            2.946       4!.598       iAM             j8(L4        10 688       121.4861590
1.04   Short Term Risk Assets                      4.158        5.936   8 .50               11,169         13,604     15,974       18.272       20,216
1.10   Long Term loans                             4,651       4,833        6,409             9,426      12,559       15,897       19,430       23.324
1.11   Housing and Construction Loans              1,012        1,196       1,516            1,946        2,135        2,451        2,888        3,250
1.1It   Other Long Term Assets                       359          607       1.229             1.420       1 561        1,9          1.620        1.875
1.13   Long Term Risk Assets                       6.022       6 636        9.154           12.791       16.255       19.943       ?3.938       28.449
1.30   Total Banking Assets                       10.180      12.572       17.662           23.960       29,859       35.917       42.210       48.665
.1.40   Miscellaneous Current Assets Li1,004                    1,737        2,011            2,540        2,852       3,331        3,641        4,139
1.41   Fixed Assets                                 _297          3           A71                           3 3          385          451          506
1.50   Total Assets                               11,481      14,648       19.960           26.795       33,043       39.633       46.302       53.310
x.Ol  Rate of Growtb of Total Assets                             ;1%         36%               34%          23%         20%          17%          lb%
*3.00   Liabilities
2.01   Short Ters Borrowing                         881       1,342        1,846            2,678        3,269        4,159        5,374        6,646
2.01   Sight Deposts o,453                                    4,972        7,060            8,310        9,940       11,757       13,715       15,913
2.03   TIm  and Savigs  Deposits
Up to 12  otha original4
turpty                                      42           71           84               92          112          143          158          183
3.04   Other Sbort Term Liabilities                838        1.497        1.776            2.933        2.912        2.981        2.846        2.841
3.05   Short Term Liabilities                   5214         7.882       10.766           14.013       16,233       19,040       22.093       25.603
?.10   Tiv  Deposits                             1,251        1,488        2,004            2,894        3,272        3,651        4,094        4,598
2.11   Loans ftom Banks and Other Sources        2,548        1,968        3,560            5,972        9,134       11,9S3       14,555       16,831
2.12   Loans from Government Funds               1.030        1,747        1.811            2.099        2,396        2.706        3,043        3,497
2.15   Long Term Liabilities                     4,829        5.203        7.375           10.965       14.802       18.310       21.692       24.926
2.?0   Total Liabilities                        10,043       13,085       18.141           24.978       31.035       37,350       43 785       50.529
3,00   Net Worth
3.10   Founders' Funds                             453          447          511              590          660          742          837          946
3.20   Fund for Housing and Communal
Construction                               442          453         446              499          510          570          585          610
1.30   Funds of the Bsank *s
Working Organization                       543          663         862               728          838          971       1.095        1,2?5
3.50   Net Worth                                 1,438        1,563        1.819            1,817        2 008       ?.283        ? 517         2,781
4.00   Total Liabilities and Net Wortb          11,481       14,648       19.960           26,795       33,043       19,633      46,302       53.310
x.10   Total Deposits                            4,746        6,531        9,148           11,296       13,324       15,551      17,967        20,714
x.11   Total Deposits and Sbort Term
Borrowing                               5,627        7,873       10,994           13,974       16,593       19,710       23,341       27,360
/L   Projections prepared by VB did not balance.  The Miscellaneous Current Assets account has been
adjusted accordingly to equate Total Assets with Total Liabilities and YIet worth,Adjustments were:
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
(20)    274     706      971   1,444



APPRAISAL OF                                                               ANNEX 2
Table 2
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Vo ivod lanaka Banks
Income Statement
(Din Million)
PROJECTED
1973        1974        1975         1976        1977         1978         1979        1980
Iterm
5.00  Income
5.01  Interest and Charges on Loans                              527         645          880       1,110       1,353        1,624        1,916       2,280
5.02  Gurantee Fees and Charges                                   40          52          103         1?9          158         190          224         266
501  Cosssissions on Managed Funds                               21          25           31          49           60          72           85         101
5.04  Other Income                                                16         139          135         148          195         233          275         328
5.10  Total Operating Income                                     604         861       1.149        1,436       1 766        2.119       2 500        2,975
5.20  Financial Expenses
5.21  interest and Other Charges
5.22  Short Tern  Borrowing                                       60          78          108         135          166         199          235         279
5.23  Long Term  Borrowing                                       324         356         496          620         763          910       1,080        1,285
5.24  Other, Including Debts Written Off                          39         180          161         201          243         302          350         417
5.30  Total Financial Expenses                                   423         614          765         956       1,172        1,411       1,665        1,981
5.40  Administrative Expenses
5.41  Salaries and Related Expenses                               41          58           85         106          131         157          185         220
5.42  Depreciation                                                 5           6            7           9            9          11           13          16
5.43  Other Admin. Expenses                                       20          27           44          55           68          81           96         114
5.50  Total Admin. Expenses                                       66          91          136         170          208         249          294         350
5.60  Total Operating Expenses                                   489         705         901        1,126       1,380 |1   1,660         1,959        2,331
5.70  Net Operating Surplus                                      115         156          ?48         310         386          459          541         644
5.71  Less Taxes                                                   5           6            5           7           11          16           12          18
5.72  Net Surplus After Taxes                                    110         150         743          303         375          443         529          626
5.80  Distribution as per VB Statements
5.81  Founders' Fund                                              34          49           15          61           75          91          107         1?8
5.82  Funds of the Bank as a Working Organization                 76         101          228         ?42          296         35?          422         498
5.90  Unexplained Changes in Net Worth
5.91  Founders' Fund                                                         (55)          49          18           (5)         (9)         (17)        (19)
5,92  Fund for Housing and Communal Construction                              11           (7)         53           11          60           15          P5
5.93  Funds of the Bank as a Working Organization                             19          (29)       (376)        (186)       (19)         (298)       (368)
6.00  Increase in Net Worth                                                  125         ?56           (2)        191          275         234          264
xIS  Total Financial Expenses (5.30) as  f
of Total Operating Income (5.10)                         70.0        71.3         66.6        66.6         66.6        66.6         66.6        66.6
x.i6  Salaries and Related Expenses (5.41) as
of Total Operating Income (5.10)                          6.8         6.7          7.4         7,4          7.4         7.4          7.4         7.4
x.17  Total Administrative Expenses (5.50) as
of Total Operating Income (5.10)                         10.9        10.6         11.8        11.8         11.8        11.8         11.8        11.8
xI18  Net Operating Surplus (5.70) as %
of Total Operating Income                                19.0        18.1         21.6        21.6         21.9        21.7         21.6        21.6
'I  Adjusted to correct mathematical error in VB data.



APPRAISAL OF                                                          Aol 2
Table 3
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Voivodinaka Bank&
Financial Analysis
PROJECTED
1973        1974         1975             1976        1977         1978         1979         1980
Item                                              -------------------------------------------Din million------------------------------------
x.20   Capital to Assets Ratio
x.7l   Total Assets (1.50)                      11,481       14,648       19,960           26,795      33,043       39,633       46,302       53,310
x.27   Net Worth (3.50)                           1,438       1,563        1,819            1,817       ?,008        ?,?83        9,517        2,781
x.71   x.?7 as % of x.71                             12.5%        10.7%         9.1%             6.8%        6.1%         5.8%         5.4%        5.2%
x.30   Deposit Run-Off Ratio
x.31   Total Deposits (x.10)                     4,746        6,531        9,148           11,296      13.3?4       15,551       17,967       20.714
x.39   Deposits with National Bank (1.09)         1,194       1,315        2,103            2,450       2,774        3,171        3,590        4,071
x.33   x.32 as % of x.31                             25.2%       20.1%        23.0%             21.7%       20.8%       20.4%        20.0%        19.7%
x.14   100% minus x.33                               74.8%        79.9%       77.0%             78.3%      79.2%        79.6%        80.0%        80.3%
x.35   Cash and Banks (1.01)                         18           23          43               105         142          187         202          243
x.36   x.35 divided by x.34                          24.1%        28.8%       55.8%            134.1%     179.3        234.9        252.5        302.6
x.37   x.36 as I of x.31 =
Deposit Run-Off Ratio                        0.5%         0.4%         0.6%             1.?%        1.3%         1.55%        1.4%         1.5%
x.40  Portfolio Shrinkage Ratio
x.41  Total Liabilities (2.20)                  10,043       13,085       18,141           24,978      31,035       37,350       43,785       50,529
x.42  Minimum Risk Assets (1.03)                  1,212       1,338         2,146           2555        2,916        3,358        3,792        4,314
x.43  x.41 minus x.4                             8,831       11,747       15,995           2    3 *  28.119         33.992       39.n3        4 15
x.44   Total Banking Assets (1.30)               10.180      12.572       17.662           23,960      29.859       35.917       42.210       48.665
x.45   x.44 minus x.42                           8,969       11,234       15,516           21,405      26,943       32,559       38,418       44,351
x.46   x.43 as % of x.45                             98.5%       104.6%      103.1%            104.8%      104.4%      104.4%       1.04.1%      1042%
x.47   1 minus x.46  -
Portfolio Shrinkage Ratio                    1.5%        (4.6%)       (3.1%)           (4.8%)      (4.4%)       (4.4%)       (4.1%)       (42 %)
x.50   Banking Assets Structure Ratio
x.51   Total Banking Assets (1.30)               10,180      12,575       17,662           23,960      29,859       35,917       42,210       48,665
x.52   Short Term Risk Assets (1.05)             4,158        5,936        8,508           11,169      13,604       15,974       18,272       20,216
x.53   x.52 as % of x.51 -
Banking Assets Structure Ratio              40.8%        47.2%        48.2%            46.6%       45.6%        44.4%        43.3%        41.5%
x.60   Term Transformation Ratio
x.61   Short Term Liabilities (2.05)             5,214        7,882       10,766           14,013      16,233       19,040       22,093       25,t001
x.67   Short Term Risk Assets (1.05)             4.158        5 936        8 508           11.169      13.604       15.974       18.272       20 216
x.63   x.61 minus x.62  =
Funds Borrowed Shott
Lent Long                                1,056        1,946        2,258            2,844       2,629        3,066        3,821       5,387
x.64   x.63 divided by x.61 a
Term Transformation Ratio                   20.3%        24.7%         1.0D%           20.3%       16.2%        16.1%        17.3%        21.0%
x.70   Return on Net Worth
x.71   Net Worth (3.50)                           1,438       1,563        1,819            1,817       2,008        2,283        2,517        2,781
x.7P   Net Surplus After Taxes (5.7?)               110         ISO          243              303         375          443          529          626
x.73   x.77 as % of x.73 -
Return on Net Worth                          7.6%         9.6%        13.4%            16.7%       18.7%        19.4%        21.0%        22.5%
x.80   Return on Total Assets
x.81   Total Assets (1.50)                       11,481      14,648       19,960           26,795      33,043       39,633       46,302       53,310
x.87   Net Operating Surplus  (5.70)                115.        15(          248              310         386          459          541          644
x.83   x.82 as % of x.81 -
Return on Total Assets                       1.0%         1.1%         1.2%             1.2%        1.2%



APPRAISAL OP
A TH1RD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
0000 1 ATVIA
Meas.re   f Groth of_PrtciatrBak
1973    -          1974- ........         ------1975 ------                ------1976 ------                 ------1977-----                ------1978 --9791--0
B.  Milio        D. Billon             In .eas     D. 11111cr         Increase      D, lIllia                         D RRs..   Billioo     Inore..a    D. Billion        ~ Inces -           RiRn           Icr....11ia    leres
Total Assets                                                                                                                                                                                   ProJsoted
UBZ                             56.0               66.1             18               87.4             32             111.9             78              137.7             73              165.2             PO              193.3             17              222.3         15
BB                              55.4               67.8             13               76.0             ?1               93.7            ?3              113.3             72              119.4             14              148.5             15              179.3          Pi
LB                              41.3               51.0             73               69.1             36              79.0             14               90.0             14              102.5             14              116.9             14              133.3         14
PBS                            3m.1                 33.5             4               41.6             24               49.0             18              17.4             17               66.5             16               75.8             14               16.1          14
BBS                             75.8               I'8.2             9               34.5             22               36.8             7               43.4             18               B0.9             17               58.6             is               67.1          14
VB                              11.0                14.6            27               P1.0             37               26.8             34              33.0             P3               39.6             28               46.3             17               53.3          is
KBP                              N.A.               10.9            N.c..            15.5             42               20.7             34              27.8             34               36.5             31               46.4             27               57.6          24
IBT                               6.9               8.6             25               12.1            41                15.6            29               18.8             21               22.2             18               22.8             16               29.8          16
Total Dap.itte
RBZ                             31.5                41.6            32               58.0             39               76.6             32              90.0             24              114.6             21              134.8             is              155.6          15
BB                              23.6               31.6             34               41.8             32               57.1             37               74.6             31              88.0             1o              106.1             21              135.7          Es
LB                              29.4               47.6             42               50.6              6               58.4            1s               67.5             16               78.1             16               90.4             16              104.8          14
PBR                             12.7               16.5             i5               2P.7             38               76.2             15               31.0             18              36.0             16               41.5             15               48.0          16
111                              5.8               10.3             78               13.4             30               15.7            13               17.5             Il               P8.1             15               22.P8            13               P5.8          15
VB                               4.7                 6.5            38                8.1             40               11.3             24               13.3             18a              15.6             17               18l.0            15               P0.7         15
KllP                             N,A.                0.4            N.A.               7.9            21                3.6             74                4.4             22                5.7             is                6.2             19               7.4          19
IBT                              I.7                 1.6            33                0.4             s0                2.7             13                3.1             15                3.6            16                6.1             14                 4.8         17
Total Oper-Cing I-           D, I  Milli.R      0.   illion       I Ir....e    nt...Mlllo         4TCrreaa         D. Million        I Irrae         U.811r           4  nraa Million  -.. D.Mli        Incr.ase         D. Million       4 Inrea          DI. Millia       a-re..
UIBZ                         3,646.0            5,996.0             45            6,361.0             P0                N.A.                              N.A.                              N.A.                              N.A.                              N.A.
BE                           9,747.0            3,773.0              36           4,816.0             79            5.962.0             74          64973.0               1 7          7,999.0              15           9,136.0              14          11,815.8          ?I
LB                           7,347.0            9.445.0             47            4328 .0             26           57981.0              70l          5,991.0              13           6,671.0              11           7,331.0              10           7,972.0            9
?BS                          1,654.0            7,961.0              43           0,547.0              8            P,794.0             10            3,065.0             10            3,364.0             10           3,696.0              10            4,075.9          10
010                          1,431.0            1,793.0             TI            0,021.0             13            0.610.0             79           3,150.0              P1           3,740.0              19           4,375.0              17           5,055.8          16
VB                             604.0              061.5             43            1,149.0             33            1,436.0             75           1,766.0              23           7,119.0              20           7,580.0              18            2,975.0          19
KBP                            366.0              074.0             43              769.0             47              688.0            (11)             725.0              0              769.0              1              803.0              1,             845.0           5
IBT                            371.0              000.0             37              685.0             35              664.0             (3)            729.0              13             792.0               9             0B7.B               8              920.B           7
Abbreiation        BaNs of Parrinirting Berk          lets SourceL-
011          Udruse..a larks Zag-eb                  4                            1.  7srr1cips-Cn  Bank
BB      eogradeka Barks                       4                            2.  P-rtinCpating Bark erd So-lel Annnnting OOViRo
LB           Ljubljena.ka Berke                      1                            3.  Parrtic.tping Bank, Genial Announing Soot-  a-d IBRD1 Analysc
PBS          Prinr-dRe Banks Sarjaro                 3                            4.  Partinipeting lnk end IBRD RAc.Iyt
101          Scoparska Barks 9kopi.e                 3
VB           To]-djan-ka B-nka                       I
KBlP         toso-ka Benke Pristlia                  4
lIT          InO-tiCi.n. Banka Ticogr-d              7



APPRAISAL OF                           ANNEX 2
Table 5
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Participating Banks*
Balance Sheet Ratios
PROJECTE
1973     1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
Capital to Assets Ratio
UBZ                        12.27    11.2%      9.9%      8.8%      8.0%      7.5%      7.0%      6.8%
BB                          8.8%      8.5%      7.4%     6.3%      5.4%      5.0%      4.5%      3.8%
LB                          8.6%      8.0%      8.1%     6.4%      6.2%      5.9%      5.6%      5.2%
PBS                         7.8%      9.4%      8.4%     7.7%      7.1%      6.6%      6.1%      5.8%
SBS                        10.2%    10.0%      9.6%      8.5%      8.3%      8.4%      8.4%      8.8%
VB                         12.5%    10.0%       9.1%     6.8%      6.1%      5.8%      5.4%      5.2%
KBP                         N.A.      4.2%     4.5%       3.6%     2.8%      2.2%      1.8%      1.5%
IBT                         7.5%      7.0%     5.6%      4.9%      4.7%      4.5%      4.4%      4.3%
Deposit Run-Off Ratio
UBZ                        17.0%    10.2%    10.7%       8.6%      8.4%      8.3%      8.2%      8.2%
BB                          6.5%      4.9%     4.3%      4.3%      4.0%      4.1      3.8%      3.4%
LB                          8.2%      5.3%      8.8%      8.5%     8.1%      7.8%      7.5%      7.2%
PBS                         8.3%      4.6%      3.7%     5.4%      3.2%      2.8%      1.2%      1.4%
SBS                        21.2%      9.6%      8.6%     0.9%      0.9%      0.9%      0.9%      0.8%
VB                          0.5%      0.4%     0.6%      1.2%      1.3%      1.5%      1.4%      1.5%
KBP                         N.A.    39.4%    23.1%    19.4%    16.9%    15.0%    13.4%    12.0%
IBT                        18.4%    12.4%    15.3%    13.8%    12.9%    12.0%    10.9%    10.3%
Portfolio Shrinkage Ratio
UBZ                         8.5%      7.1%     6.8%      5.7%      4.8%      4.2%      3.6%      3.3%
BB                          5.9%      4.1%      2.8%     0.8%      1.3%      1.9%      1.1%      0.7%
LB                          6.4%      3.3%      3.6%     2.1%      2.3%      2.5%      2.5%      2.4%
PBS                         8.3%      4.6%      3.7%     5.4%      3.2%      2.8%      1.2%      1.4%
SBS                        12.8%      9.8%    10.3%      6.2%      6.3%      6.5%      6.7%      7.1%
VB                          1.5%    (4.6%)   (3.1%)   (4.8%)   (4.4%)   (4.4%)   (4.1%)   (4.0%)
KEP                         N.A.    (0.7%)    0.5%       0.1%      0.1%    (0.3%)   (0.4%)   (0.5%)
IBT                         6.1%     5.9%      4.6%      4.1%      3.9%      3.8%      3.8%      3.7%
Banking Asset Structure Ratio
UBZ                        41.0%    45.0%    46.0%    46.0%    46.0%    46.0%    46.0%    46.0%
BB                         39.0%    35.0%    37.0%    35.0%    37.0%    37.0C    36.0%    41.0%
LB                         40.0%    40.f%    42.0%    43.0%    43.0%    43.0%    b4.0%    44.0%
PBS                        31.0%    43.0%    45.0%    43.0%    45.0%    46.n%    66.0%    47.0%
SBS                        31.0%    33.0%    36.0%    35.0%    34.0%    33.0%    33.0%    32.0%
VB                         41.0%    47.0%    48.0%    47.0%    46.0%    44.0%    43.0%    42.0%
KBP                         N.A.    28.0%    34.0%    35.0%    31.0%    27.0%    25.0%    24.0%
IBT                        34.0%    25.0%    22.0%    20.0%    19.0%    18.0%    18.0%    18.0%
Term Transformation Ratio
UBZ                        24.0%    22.0%    23.0%    26.0%    26.0%    27.0%    27.0%    27.0%
BB                         28.0%    37.0%    40.0%    45.0%    45.0%    45.0%    49.0%    44.0%
LB                         25.0%    23.0%    27.0%    23.0%    23.0%    22.0%    22.0%    21.0%
PBS                        13.0%      3.0%      7.0%     6.0%      3.0%      1.0%      4.0%      2.0%
SBS                       (21.0%)  (29.0%)  (28.0%)      7.0%      9.0%    10.0%    11.0%    11.0%
VB                         20.0%    25.0%    2i.0%    20.0%    16.0%    16.0%    17.0%    21.0%
KBP                         N.A.   (16.0%)  (24.0%)  (60.0%)  (75.0%)  (85.0%) (102.0%) (129.0%)
IBT                       (23.0%)   (2.0%)   (3.0%)   (3.0%)   (2.0%)   (2.0%)   (1.0%)   (1.0,)
Key
Abbreviation                Data Source          Name of Participating Bank
UBZ                        4               Udruzena Banka Zagreb
BB                         4               Beogradska Banka
LB                         1               Ljubljanska Banka
PBS                        3               Privredna Banka Sarajevo
SBS                        3               Stopanska Banka Skopje
VB                         1               Vojvodjanska Banka
KBP                        4               Kosovska Banka Pristina
IBT                        2               Investiciona Banka Titograd
Data Source
1. Participating Bank
2. Participating Bank and Social Accounting Service
3. Participating Bank, Social Accounting Service and IBRD Analys
4. Participating Bank and IBRD Analyst
Note: For derivation of these measures, see Annex 2, Table 3.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND  ACRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Comparative Income Statement lPtio9 aln4 Dates of leturn for Participating Banks
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
Financial Expenses as a %                                    ------=-=-- Projected ---------- ---
of ToLal  IO.ratio5 h,co-e
U3Z                       N.A.      55        60        N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
BB                        75        74        72        73        73        74        74        74
LB                        66        61        61        65        65        65        66        66
PBS                       71        70        63        69        70        70        70        71
SBS                       70        70        67        N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
VB                        70        71        67        67        67        67        67        67
KBP                       79        73        76        71        73        76        79        82
IBT                       82        84        75        69        69        69        69        69
Administrative Expenses
as a X of Total Operating
Income
UBZ                       N.A.      32        26        N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
BB                        10        11        12        13        13        13        13        13
LB                        16        17        16        17        18        17        17        16
PBS                        7         5        14        14        14        15        15        15
SBS                        6        7          8        N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
VB                        11        11        12        12        12        12        12        12
KBP                       10        10         9         7         8         9         9        10
IBT                       11         9         8        10        10        10        10        10
Net Operating Surplus as
a X of Total Operating
Income
UBZ                       13        12        14        N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
BB                        15        11        14        13        14        14        13        13
LB                        18        22        23        18        17        17        17        17
PBS                       10        13        23        17        16        15        15        14
SBS                       24        23        26        24        23        24        23        23
VB                        19        18        22        22        22        22        22        22
KBP                       11        17        15        12        10         7         5         2
IBT                       11         9        17        20        21        21        21        21
Return on Total Assets
UBZ                        0.8       1.0       1.0      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
8B                         0.8       0.7       1.0       0.9       1.0       0.9       0.9       0.9
LB                         1.0       1.5       1.4       1.2       1.2       1.1       1.1       1.0
PBS                        0.5       0.8       0.8       1.0       0.9       0.8       0.7       0.7
SBS                        1.4       1.4       1.5       1.7       1.7       1.7       1.7       1.8
VB                         1.0       1.1       1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2
KBP                        N.A.      0.8       0.7       0.7       0.5       0.3       0.2       0.1
IBT                        0.6       0.6       1.1       0.9       0.8       0.7       0.7       0.6
Return on Net Worth
UBZ                        6.3       8.7      10.0       N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
BB                         7.6       6.8      11.9      13.7      17.2      18.3      19.8      22.8
LB                        12.0      18.4      17.7      18.5      18.8      19.1      19.5      20.2
PBS                        5.3      12.4      14.4      11.6      11.3      11.2      11.2      11.1
SBS                       11.4      13.2      14.1      17.9      18.8      19.1     19.3      18.7
VB                         7.6       9.6      13.4      16.7      18.7      19.4      21.0      22.5
KBP                       N.A.       3.7       2.7      11.0       9.1       7.2       5.0       2.5
IBT                        4.2       5.1      14.2      11.2      11.1     10.5      10.1       9.4
Abbreviation      Name of Participating Bank         Data Source                         Iey
UBZ            Udruzena 3anka ZaBreb                    4                   1.  Participating Bank
BB             Beogradaka Banka                         4                   2.  Participating Bank and Social Accounting
LB             Ljubljanaka Banka                        1                       Service
3. Participating Bank, Social Accounting
PBS            Privredna Banka Sarajevo                 3                       Service and IBRD Analyst
SBS            Stopanska Banka Skopje                   3                  4.  Participating Bank and IBRD Analyst
VB             Vojvodjanska Banka                       1
KBP            Kosovska Banka Pristina                  4
IBT            Investiciona Banka Titograd              2



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Lending Rate Ranges of Participating Banks
Privredna      Stopanska      Kosovska    Investiciona
Vojvodjanska       Banka       Ljubljanska   Beogradska         Banka           Banka          Banka          Banka
Banka         Zagreb          Banka          Banka        Saralevo        Skopie        Pristina        Titograd
I    Rates on Loans from Bank's Resources
A. General Long Term Lending Rates                 9 - 12%        8 - 12%        6 - 10%       10 - 11%         10%         8 - 11 1/2%       6 - 9%      7 - 11 1/2%
B. Long Term Lending Rates to Agriculture
and Agroindustry                                9 - 12%        8 - 12%        6 - 10%       10 - 11%         10%         8 - 11 1/2%       6 - 9%      7 - 11 1/2%
C. Subsidized Agricultural and Agroindustrial
Lending Rate for High Priority Projects                                                       5%
II   Rates on Budgetary Resources:
Federal, Republic and Provincial Funds for
Priority Investments in Agriculture and
Agroindustry                                       1 - 10%        41/2%           3%               N.A.         4 - 5%          3 - 7%          3 - 4%         6 -7%
J Federal funds are outstanding loans to Banks in less developed areas at rates of 3%, 4% and 4. 166%.
Republic and Provincial funds are provided at various rates, depending largely on the purposes for which they are issued.
-4 r



VOJVODJANSKA BANKA
PROJECT OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRECTOR
ADVISOR                                  SENIOR CLERK
2   SENIOR OFFICER  l                             H           LAWYERAl
PROC AGRICULTURAL CREDIT                                 PLE AWY
SENiOR OFFIE
L   SENIOR OFFICER  l                             H       LOAN SUPERVISOR
MARKETING
AGRO-ENGINEER                                             LOAN SUPERVISOR
_      ~~ECONOMIST        l                                    DISBURSEMENTS OFFICERd
4   ECONOMIST    l                               g         SENIOR CLERK 1 l
World Bank-16B87x|



ORGANIGRAM
VOJVODJANSKA BANKA - HEAD OFFICE
OCTOBER1976
BANK ASSEMBLY
|EXECU DIVE COMMIT] EE
CREDIT COMMITTEE    j            I                         ;
GENERAI MANAGER
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER|
ADVISER OF THE BANK
PLANNING & ACCOUNTING           LEGAL AND COMMON OPERA] IONS       PROJECT OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
RESOURCES & CREDIl SECTOR         FOREIGN OPERATIONS SECTOR                    SECNNG&TOR                          SEPOECCTORIOSDEATMN 
ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER          ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER           ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER          ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER                   DIRECTOR
-[:: ~ADVISERS                                   ADVISERS                           ADVISER                             ADVISrR                             ADVISER
INVESTMENT CREDIT    CORRESPONDENT RELATIONS              Pt ANNING AkNG ANALYSIS
DEPARTMENT                           DIVISION                          DEPARTMENT                    INSPECTOR OF THE BANK                    TRANSLAlOR
DISBURSEMENT AND COLLECTION               FOEG   REDIT                                                                                     -:::~JECTAP~RAI    1     
OF CREDIT DEPARTMENT              OPRTOSDPARTMENTACONIGDPRMNLELDPRTNTROC   PRISLIVIN
DEPARTMENT FOR INTERBANK                                              DAA PROCESSING DEPARTMENT                  NT & SELF MANAGEMENT   -OEr T
OPERATIONS & RESOURCES                                                                                     OPRTIUNS DEPARTMENT                IMPEMETA T: IO DIISO
DEPARTMENT FOR COMMUNITY
RESOURCES & SELF             FOREIGN EXCHANGE DEPARTMENT          SAVING DEPOSITS DEPARtMENT                  COMMON
MANAGEMENT FUNDS
TOTAL NUMBER OF STAFF AS OF OCTOBER 1976
XP.
-University Graduates               64                                                                                                 n) -
-Junior College                     25
-Secondary School                  113
-Highly skilled workers              3
-Skilled workers                    3
-Elementary School                  10
-Unskilled workers                   5
Total.    223
____________   ___ __                                                                                                 WoilkW  B[rik- 16888



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Interest Rate Study
Draft Terms of Reference
Objective
1.        In the framework of the First Agricultural Credit Project (World
Bank Loan 1129-YU), Vojvodjanska Banka entrusted the Institute of Agricultural
Economics, Beograd, to undertake a study to analyze the interest rate struc-
ture for the agricultural sector, and its broad economic implications.
2.        The report of the Institute which was issued in February 1977 on
"Effects of Interest Rates on Long-Term Agricultural Credits" constitutes a
useful background document on the financial and institutional structure of
the Yugoslav economy, the structure of interest rates within and between
Republics and Provinces, and the pricing and fiscal system in the agriculture
sector. This report represents by its character the first phase of a more
comprehensive study to be undertaken on interest rates and financial charges
applied by the banks in Yugoslavia. This study would cover Bank lending for
all sectors with particular emphasis on agriculture and industry. This new
study should (a) determine the role and the effect of interest rates and
other financial charges on the financial situation of the banking system;
(b) review the role of interest rates in the Yugoslav economy in general;
and (c) draft recommendations for a long-term policy on interest rates for
all banks in Yugoslavia.
Organization
3.        The study which would be financed by the Association of Yugoslav
Banks, would be supervised and coordinated by a Board whose members would
be selected by relevant governmental and financial institutions. The firm
or firms of consultants to carry out the study would be selected on the
basis of a review of the proposals received from a number of firms consulted
and interested in participating in this project. The proposals should in-
clude, in addition to a detailed information on qualification and experience
of the staff to be employed for the task, an elaborated description of the
methodology proposed to analyze the specific issues raised below.
4.        The Final Report on the study is expected to be completed within
twelve months after signature of the contract.



ANNEX 2
Appendix .2
Page 2
The Study
5.        The selected consultants would, with the assistance of the Associa-
tion of Yugoslav Banks and of Federal, Republican and Provincial government
authorities, undertake the following tasks:
A.   Review the Effect of the Interest Rate on the Financial
Situation of the Banking System
(i) Consultants will review the effects of interest rates
on the term structure of bank assets and liabilities,
with special reference to the mobilization and allo-
cation of resources at long maturities and the im-
plications of the term structure of interest rates
on the liquidity position of banks. They will review
the cost of capital to the banks as well as financial,
administrative and other costs of lending which in-
fluence the quality, the volume, and the efficiency
of financial intermediation. This review would involve
a detailed analysis, over say a five-year period, of
banking system resources, according to their sources,
costs and terms, and the banks' uses of these resources
by purpose, costs and the interest rates and other
charges or compensation received for them. In study-
ing these factors, the consultants will discuss the
various aspects of interest rate formation, and par-
ticularly assess the level of coordination among the
banks in setting interest rates and criteria used by
them for such determination.
(ii) The consultants will review the lending policies and
procedures of the banks and establish the extent to
which these policies and procedures are applied. This
empirical review of historical trends should, however,
take into account the recent institutional and legal
changes in the Yugoslav banking system. While Social
Plans and Social Compacts seem to have key importance
in resource allocation, the lending procedures and
policies of the banks may also have a role to play.
This will be studied along with the effect of interest
rates on the resource allocation process and on capital
intensity of the investments. For example, the consul-
tants will determine the extent to which credits for
similar purposes from the same Bank are lent at dif-
ferent rates and how these differentials are determined.
They will also review the extent of flexibility that the
banks have in allocating their funds between different
types of agricultural or industrial activities. Simi-
larly, the role of the investors or the factors intervening



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 3
in investment decisions and choice of technology will
be investigated. An empirical approach through case
studies might be used for this analysis.
B.   Review of the Effect of the Interest Rate on the Economy
(i) The study will determine the factors outside the banking
system which are involved in interest rates formation and
structure. Among these, the respective role of the Fed-
eration, Republics, communes and any other institutions
in subsidizing interest rates, and the rationale and
the criteria for such subsidies will be examined. The
justification for subsidies will be established to in-
dicate whether subsidies are prerequisite for adequate
financial returns to the borrowers or are necessary for
income redistribution among producers. These alterna-
tives should be tested through calculations of rates of
return, empirical review of comparative income levels
in economic sectors, and the income effect of subsidies.
The conclusion of this review will discuss whether in-
terest rate subsidies are an effective and equitable
and efficient means of overcoming other distortions.
It will also indicate whether subsidization achieves
its objectives of income distribution or cost reduc-
tion without creating other distortions on prices,
level of production, type of production, etc. It
will identify particular areas relating to long-term
interest rates for agriculture and industry, where
removing any distortions would yield significant
benefits, and examine whether major distortions in
other markets, such as the exchange rate or taxes,
should be corrected as a matter of first priority.
(ii)  The study will analyze the factors affecting savings
and examine empirically the past relationship with
interest rates; separate out as far as possible the
savings of enterprises and the savings of households
and within households savings due to workers' remit-
tances and savings held in foreign exchange accounts.
Some reference might be appropriate here to the rela-
tion of interest rates and inventories.
(iii) The consultants will also establish whether low interest
rates result in or contribute to capital-intensive in-
vestments, either through adoption of an excessively
capital intensive technology or choice of activities
with higher capital intensities which would not take
place without low interest rates. A detailed case
study approach in all the republics and provinces



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 4
could be carried out to determine the principal factors
affecting capital intensity and the extent to which the
current choice of technology is appropriate.
(iv) The resource allocation between sectors and within
sectors will be reviewed. In the agriculture and indus-
trial sectors the study will determine the extent to
which funds available are predetermined through Social
Compacts and Self-management Agreements, and further-
more to what extent these funds are earmaked for
specific types of activity. It will examine the cur-
rent situation with regard to the demand and supply
of long-term credit, and assess the rationing devices
adopted by the Plan and the financial institutions for
rationing credit to specific investment projects.
C.   Draft Recommendation for a Coordinated Interest Rate Policy
in Yugoslavia
In the light of the findings in A and B above, the consultants
will propose a set of short- and medium-term measures to be
undertaken by appropriate financial institutions and govern-
mental authorities for realization of a coordinated interest
rate policy in Yugoslavia. This policy might include uniform-
ity of interest rate for all banks in Yugoslavia.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Fruit and Vegetable Production Component
1.        Fruit and vegetables have traditionally been primarily produced
by individual sector farmers in Yugoslavia (92%). Because of low productivity
in the sector as a result of limited investment and low level and poor qual-
ity of farm inputs, the production has been stagnant despite the increasing
demand during the last ten years. The Agricultural Plan objective is to boost
annual fruit and vegetable production by about 3.7 and 8% respectively during
the next five years. The Project would help achieve this objective by invest-
ing over a three year period US$62.3 million (27% of the total Project cost)
in fruit and vegetable, vineyard and land development. The projected invest-
ment, income and cash flow statements for five representative farm models are
shown in detail in Appendixes 1 to 5 of this Annex.
Farm Models                                   Location              Appendix
4-ha Farm with 0.1 ha Plastic House        Only Macedonia               1
4-ha Farm with 1.0 ha irrigated            All Republics except
Mixed Vegetables                         Slovenia and Croatia         2
Land Development (5 ha)                    Slovenia and Croatia         3
4-ha Farm with 1 ha Vineyard               All Republics except
Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  4
5-ha Farm with 1.0 ha Cherries             All Republics except
Slovenia, Montenegro
and Kosovo                  5
2.        Vegetable production is an important activity on individual farms.
It is a dominant cash crop in areas where markets are readily available
near the cities and tourist resort areas. The Project is expected to pro-
duce at full development about 50,000 metric tons of fresh vegetables in-
cluding mainly tomatoes, green beans, pepper and onions. About 2,100 tons
of this production would be early vegetable, mainly tomatoes and cucumbers
produced in 40 ha of plastic "walk-in" tunnels to be financed in Macedonia.
About 2,600 farmers would participate in the Project and would be investing
in construction of plastic houses, purchase of irrigation equipment, motor
cultivators, and other farm improvements.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        Investment in fruit production would include development of roughly
5,000 ha of new orchards, and 1,500 ha of vineyards of which 50% would be for
replacement of old vineyards. About 6,500 farmers would be participating in
the development of fruit production under the Project. At full development
incremental production of fruit is expected to reach about 45,000 metric tons,
of cherries, apples, peaches, apricots and plums and 14,000 metric tons of
wine and table grapes.
4.        A breakdown of Project cost, number of hectares, list of major in-
vestment items and volume of incremental productions is presented in Table 1.
Prices, yields and other technical coefficients used in the models are shown
in Table 2. The yields assumptions are conservative, because of high risks in
fruit and vegetable production. Input and output prices are based on December
1976 prices. They are expected to change over time, but are assumed to change
proportionally at the same rate. Model calculations are therefore made in
constant prices. A physical contingency of 5% has been included in the invest-
ment cost to take into account differences in subprojects design and location.
As individual farmers pay taxes according to the cadastral value of their
agricultural land (Annex 1, para 23), these taxes are the same before and
after the Project. They are therefore not taken into account in the financial
analysis of the subprojects. Hired labor has been valued at the prevailing
wage rate for unskilled labor. Family labor has not been costed because of
under employment among individual farmers. The respective financial rates of
return for the proposed investments as well as sensitivity tests applied to
them, are summarized below:
Farm Model Summary Results
Operating Cost      Net Income Before
at Full           Debt Service At
Farm Model               Investment       Development        Full Development
Din -
1 Plastic House           108,500            35,268                54,931
2 Mixed Vegetable          94,480            33,720                55,820
3  Land Development        49,497            29,363                24,827
4  Vineyard               152,336            31,640                73,340
5  Fruit Orchard           86,910            35,470                71,430
(Cherries)
Rate of Return
Farm Model                Basic    Investment    Operating Cost   Revenue
+10%             +10%           -10%
1 Plastic House             26          23               24             20
2 Mixed Vegetable           24          21               23             20
3  Land Development         22          20               18             15
4  Vineyard                 16          15               16             15
5  Fruit Orchard            20          19               19             18
(Cherries)



AMX  3
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Fruit and Vegetable Production Component
Coat by Component, Number of Farmers, Hectaree and Incremental Production
Bosnia and
Vojvodina      Slovenia    Croat         Herzegovina       Montenegro      Kosovo      Macedonia      Serbia      Total
Project Cost /L
Plastic House                                            -             i                                          3.6             -       3.6
Mixed Vegetable             3.6           _            2.1          4.6                1.4          3.6            _             _       15.3
Land Development            -            0.7           4.3                              - _          _             -             -        5.0
Vineyard                     1.8           -           2.1           1.8                _           5.3           3.6            _       14.6
Fruit Orchard               3.6           _            2.1          2.5                 _                         3.6           7.8      19.6
Total                  9-          0.7          10.6          8-9               1.4          8.9           10.8           T        5
Foreign 9lcchange Cost 2
Plastic House                                                                           - -  -       -            1.0            -        1.0
Mixed Vegetable             1.0           _            o.6           1.3               O.4          1.0            -             -        4.3
Land Development             -           0.2           1.2                              -                                                 1.4
Vineyard                     0.5          -            o.6          0.5                             1.5           1.0            _        4.i
Fruit Orchard               1.0           _            o.6          0.7                 -                         1.0           2.2       5.5
Total                  2.5          0.2           3.0          2.5               0.4          2.5            3.0           2.2      16.3
Farming Activities A      ------------------------------------------------------Number of Farmers------------------------------------.
Plastic House                           -      -                                      -          -              4oo           -            40
Mixed Vegetable           550           -            340          68C                170        460                           -         2,200
Land Development           -           150           950           -                              -              -            -          1,100
Vineyard                  180           -            220          lao                            270            550                      1, 400
Fruit Orchard             9           -            55          650                 -           -             900        2,000         5,0O0
Total              1,630          150         2,060        1,510               170         730          1,350         2,000       10,100
Farming Activities    _-----------------------------------------------------ha .-..-------------------------------------------------
Plastic House                            -            -                     -               -                    40           -o
Mixed Vegetable           550                        340          680                170         460             _            _          2,200
Land Development           -           750         4,75           -                  -           -              _                       5,50
Vineyard                  1so           -            220          180                 -         270             550           _          1,400
Fruit Orchard             900           -            550          650                 -           -             900         2,000        5, 00
Total              1,630          750         5,860        1,510               170         730          1.490         2,000       14,140
Major Investment
Plastic House (ha)         -            -              -           -                  -           -              40              -         4o
Irrigation (ha)           550                          340        680                170        460                              -      2,200
incremental Production at
Full                       ------------------------------------------------------------Dvl entons--------n.-.-_-______________________
Cereals (Maize, Wheat) 2,300           600         4,700        2,000                200         500          4,Ooo         3,900      18,200
Tobacco                    -            6o           390           -                  -           -             -             -           450
Vegetable              12,000            -         7,000       13 Om               4,ooo       9,000          4,500           500      50,000
Fruit                   7,500            -         4,500        5,000                 _ -                    12,000        16,000      45,OOC
Grapes                  1,700            -         2,000        1,800                 _        2,500          6,ooo           -        14,000
Fodder Crops               -           60o         4,400           _                  -           _      -                    -         5,000
/I Includes Price Contingencies on Foreign and local exchange:
Year         1        2        3
Equipment     itr   1.1        n.
It is expected that 20% of the funds would be disbursed in the first year and 40% in the second and third years respectivelY.
About 20% of the farmers would be financed in the first year, 60% in the second year and 20% in the third year ; figures have been rounded
Figures have been rrunded.



ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF                                      Table 2
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSIAVIA
Fruit and Vegetable Production Component
Technical Coefficients and Production Costs Private Sector/ha
Price    Seed in kg or  Unit    Manures  Ferti -    PlantL   Machi-    Animal.   Labor Require-
No. of Plants   Cost                 lizer    Protec-   nery         Power          ment
8_4-316   tion       Services
Din/kg                     Din    ton n- T7                         - Din      Din           Days
Wheat
Without Project           2.75         140               5       -        230         -       1,600        800            10
4ith Project              2.75        140                5      -         300         450    2,575          -             5
Maize
Without Project           2.20          22.5           15       5         300         -         -        1,500           25
With Project              2.20          22.5           15       5         330         -       1,500         -            20
.'omaatoes5
Without Project           2.20     20,000            0.25      10         400       2,6oo       -        2,600          180
With Project              2.20     20,000            0.25      10         600       5,200    1,80D          _           250
Plastic House (Tomatoes)
With Project              6.15     20,000            0.25      10       1,500       6,500    1,800          _           300
Pepper
Without Project           3.00      25,000           0.20      10         500       2,600       -        2,600          180
With Project              3.00      25,000           0.20      10         700       5,200    1,800                      250
Onions
Without Project           5.00           4         625         10         400       1,950       -       2,600           100
With Prolect              5.00           4         625         10         600       2,600    1,800          _           150
Beans
Without Project           4.00         100          35         10         400       1,950       -       2,600           150
With Prolect              4.00         100          35         10         600      3,250    1,800           -           180
Grapes
Without Project           5.00           -                      5        400       1,360       -        2,000           100
With Project              5.00                                           400       1,700        975         -           120
Grapes (new)
With Project             8.0Q        3,750           7          5        900       1,700       975          -           250
Cherries
Without Project          8.03            -             _       -         200       1,000       -        1,000          150
u.zii Pro,-nct           8.00           -             -                 200       1,000       750         -           150
Cherries (new)
7ith Prolec+.            8.00         332          30          -         570       1,000      750          _           200
Land Development Model
Maize
Without Project          2.20          22.5        15          5        300          -      3,000         -             15
With Project             2.20          22.5       15          5          330         -      3,600          -            15
Sunflower
Without Project          5.54          20          16          -         150         -      1,800          -            15
With Project                           20         16           -        230          -      1,800                       15
Tobacco
iith Project           35-00       30,000           0.05      5         650       2,500    2,400          -           250
Silage
'Sith Project            0.40           30         15          -         650         -      3,600          -            15
Pasture
With Project             0.50           32         60          _         200         _       480           -5
M1 Manure 200 Din/ton.
/ Complex Fertilizer 2.86 Din/kg
a Average price six chemicals 86.6 Din/kg.
Tractor 120 Din/h combine 1,600 Din/h-motor cultivator 15 Din/h.
/   Animal Power 100 Din/day.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Representative Models
Farm Model No. 1: 4 ha Individual Farm with 0.1 Plastic House
1.        The plastic houses would be financed in Macedonia.  The proposed
model represents a farm of 4 ha in an area where the climate conditions are
favorable for early vegetable production and where the produce can be sold
20-30 days earlier than in the northern part of Yugoslavia. The farmer invest-
ment would consist in: construction of 2-5 plastic houses covering a total
area of 1,000 m2, the purchase of 60 m of irrigation pipes to deliver water
from existing water supply to the plastic house, and a 6.8-HP cultivator with
implements. The tunnel shaped plastic houses would be constructed from pre-
fabricated portable aluminum tubing.
2.        Before Project 3.0 ha of land are cultivated under cereals, and 0.5
ha are cultivated under tomatoes and pepper. The remaining 0.5 ha are under
low yielding meadow. The farmer uses his own animal power and additionally
required tractor services are supplied by a nearby kombinat, which also sup-
plies the combine for wheat harvest. Pre-Project income would be Din 28,416
per farm. With the Project the farmer would slightly increase the area under
cereal, he would maintain the area under field vegetables except 1,000 m2 for
the plastic house and the low yielding meadow would be eliminated. The farmer
would concentrate on the production of early tomatoes and cucumbers in the
plastic house and would introduce green beans, and tomato seedlings as a
second crop. All of his produce would normally be sold on the local market.
3.        The total investment cost would amount to Din 108,500 and would
yield a financial rate of return of 26% after 10 years period. At full devel-
opment (Year 3) the net farm income (before loan repayment) would be Din
54,931. About 400 of such investments would be financed under the Project
in Macedonia.



APPRAISAL OF                               ANNEX 3
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                   Appendix 1
Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model:  4 ha Private Farm with 0.1 ha Plastic.House
Technical Coefficients
Cropping                     Yields
------->hao--------                Ton/ha
Without     With            Without      With
Project     Project         Project      Project
Wheat                    1.5          2.0             2.5          2.8
Maize                    1.5          1.5             2.8          3.2
Tomatoes                 0.3          0.2            30.0         35.0
Pepper                   0.2          0.2            16.0         18.0
Meadow                   0.5           -              5.0           -
Plastic House             -           0.1              -          60.0
Total               4.0         4.0
Plastic House Yields and Sales
Year 1                Year 2              Year 3-10
Price    Area    Quantity    Sales    Quantity    Sales    Quantity    Sales
Din/kg    ha         kg        Din         kg         Din         kg         Din
Tomatoes
1-31 May      15.00    0.07        364      5,460        421       6,315        560      8,400
1-30 June      6.00             1,400       8,400      1,500       9,000     1,750      10,500
1-31 July      2.20             1,036       2,280      1,084       2,385     1,190       2,618
Cucumber
1-15 June       7.50    0.03       527      3,952        600       4,500        738      5,535
15 June-
15 July       3.00                823      2,460        900       2,700     1,062       3,186
Green Beans
(Second crop)   4.00    0.10       600       2,400        650       2,600       700       2,800
Seedlings
(pieces)        0.50    0.01      10,000    5,000    10,000        5,000    10,000        5,000
On-farm Investment                                                      Year 1
Investment Item                                                       Foreign           % Foreign
Number of Units  Cost per Unit  Local  Exchange  Total  Exchange
Aluminium Tubing 1                             ----------------'000 Din-----------
Plastin                        1,015 m            40.00        26.4     14.2      40.6        35
Manila Hemp                      360 kg           30.00         6.5      4.3      10.8        40
Maila Hep100 kg                                    8.00         0.8       -        0.8         -
Manure                         1,000 m             0.60         0.4      0.2       0.6        35
Family Labor                  3,000 kg             0.20        0.6        -        1.6        -
Family                  ~~~~~~~50 h      20            1.0        -       1.0         -
Irrigation Tubes(9O mm)           10             290.00         1.9      1.0       2.9        35
Motor Cultivator
with trailer plough
and tiller                        1              46,000      29.9      16.1      46.0        35
67.5     35.8    103.3
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                       3.4      1.8       5.2        35
Total                                                   70.9      37.6    108.5        35



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
APPRAISAL OF                    Table 2
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: 4 ha Private Farm with 0.1 Plastic House
Income and Expenditure Statement
Y e e r
Without  Project           1           2           3-10_
------------_______----------Din---------------
Revenue
Cereals                            19,552              23,870      25,080       25,960
Vegetables                         29,400               23,840     24,720       26,200
Meadow                                 625                 -          -            -
Plastic House                         -                 29,952     32,50,0      38,039
Total                         49,577              77,662      82,300       90,199
Operating Expense
Seed                                4,056               4,186       4,186        4,186
Fertilizer /1                       2,902               4,280       4,280        4,280
Manure                              2,500               2,500       2,500        2,500
Plant Prot/etion                    1,300                3,790      3,790        3,790
Machinery -                         2,400                8,300      8,300        8,300
Animal Powe 3                       5,150                  -          -            -
Irrigation  -                         750               1,050       1,050        1,050
Plastic    A                          -                    -        5,400        5,400
Maintenance /5                        -                    -          -          2,030
Insurance /6                        1,487               2,329       2,470        2,705
Interest on Seasonal
Credit /7                           616                  793        96C        1,027
Total                         21,161              27,228      32,936       35,268
Net Income                            28,416               50.434     49,4 
Note:  Due to free labor capacity in the pre-project stage, family labor has not been costed.
/1  Including 50 kg ammonium nitrate for 2nd crop at 2.40 Din/kg.
/2  Including 1,600 Din/ha for wheat combine harvesting.
/3 0.25 Din/m3.
/4 Replacement of half of the plastic every year at 30 Din/kg.
/5 Maintenance of aluminium construction at 5%.
76 3% of production value.
/7 Based on 50% of operating expenses for six months at 12% annual interest.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL 4 HA PRIVATE FARM WITH 0.1 HA PLASTIC HOUSE
FROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)       (02)       (03)      (04)      (05)       (06)      (07)       (08)      (09)       (10)
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                          77,662    82,330    90,199    90,199    90,199    90,199    90,199    90,199    90,199   110,500  6)
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                 86,800         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)           21,700         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
SHORT TERM LOAN                   13,217    15,988    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120
__ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - --- - -  - - - - - - -
SUBTOTAL                         199,379    98,318   107,319   107,319   107,319   107P319   107,319   107,319   107.319   127,620
__ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS 3)                27,228    32,986    35,286    35,286    35,286    3S,286    35,286    35,286    35,286    35,286
INVESTMENT                       108,500         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAYMENT         13,217    15,988    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120    17,120
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 4)              0     6,451      7,160     7,948      8,822         0          0         0          0         0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 5)             0    12,897    13,671    14,491    15,361           0          0         0          0         0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%         1,671     3,342      2,632     1,845        970         0          0         0          0         0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%          1P693     3,385      2,611     1,791        922         0          0         0          0         0
__ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -
SUBTOTAL                         152,309    75,049    78,480    78,481    78,481    52,406    52,406    52,406    52,406    52,406
CASH FLOW                         47,070    23,269    28,839    28,838    28,838    54,913    54,913    54,913    54,913    75,214
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         (86,482)   20,898    26,575    26,575    26,575    26,575    26,575    26,575    26,575    26,575
1) 80% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                          Proiected Financial Rate of Return                                 3 >
2) 20X OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                          Financial Rate of Return:    26%
3) INCLUDING INTEREST ON SHORT TERM LOAN                               Sensitivity Test
4) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                          investment Costs   + 10%:    23%                                  w ,.. w
5) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                          Operating Expenses + 10%:    24%                                    x
6) SALYAGE VALUE OF PLASTIC HOUSE, 50% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                Revenues    - 10%:    20%



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model No. 2: 4 ha Individual Farm with 1.0 ha Mixed Vegetables and
Small Scale Sprinkler Irrigation
1.        The model represents an average farm of 4 ha without livestock pro-
duction and where one ha of mixed vegetables farming is to take place under
irrigation. Before Project 2.5 ha are cultivated under cereals, 0.5 ha under
grapes and 0.7 ha under vegetables, the remaining 0.3 ha consists of low
yielding meadow. The farmer grows mainly tomatoes, beans, pepper and onions.
Under the present situation, the farmer still uses one horse for land prepara-
tion. The wheat is however harvested with a rented combine from a nearby
kombinat.
2.        The farmer investment would consist in construction of a 3-10 m deep
well, the purchase of a small scale portable sprinkler irrigation system and
the purchase of a 6.8-HP cultivator with implements. The sprinkler system
would consist of a 3-HP electrical motor pump, 240 m of portable aluminum
pipes and 4 sprinklers with accessories to facilitate the irrigation of gen-
erally small and irregular fields. The system would operate approximately
1,500 hours per year and the water requirement would be about 6 m3/hour.
Model development would be limited to areas with sufficient water supply.
3.        As a result of these investments, especially the introduction of
the cultivator and better timed weed control and soil preparation, it is
expected that the yields of wheat, maize and grapes would increase by 5-15%
at full development. About 10 hours of tractor services would still be
supplied by the kombinat which would also harvest the wheat product. The
total investment would amount to Din 94.840, and yield a financial rate of
return of about 24% after 15 years amortization period. The net farm income
(before loan repayment) would increase from Din 33,700 before Project to
Din 55,820 with Project. The Project would finance about 2,200 farms in
all Yugoslavia except the republics of Slovenia and Serbia.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: 4 ha Private Farm with 1.0 ha Mixed Vegetables and
Small Scale Sprinkler Irrigation
Technical Coefficients
Cropping                         Yields
Without     With             Without           Y e a r
Project      Project         Project       1      2      3
--------ha ----------        -------------Ton/ha----------
-heat                          1.5           1.5             2.5       2.6    2.7    2.8
Maize                          1.0           1.0             2.8        2.9    3.0    3.2
Grapes                         0.5           0.5             4.8       5.0    5.1    5.3
Meadow                         0.3            _              5.0         -      -      -
Tomatoes                       0.2           0.3            21.0      25.0   28.0   30.0
Peppers                        0.2           0.3            16.0      20.0   21.0   25.0
Onions                         0.1           0.1            10.0      12.0   13.0   14.0
Beans                          0.2           0.3             5.5        6.2    6.5    7.0
Total                     4.0           4.0
On-farm Investment                                       Year 1
Foreign                  % Foreign
Investment Item                         Local        Exchange      Total       Exchange
--------------Din--------------
Electric Motor Pump (3-HP)               5,558         2,992        8,550           35
Irrigation Equipment/l                   6,780        3,650        10,430           35
Well -2                                 22,500       22,500        25,000           10
Motor Cultivator (6.8-HP)               29,900       16,100        46,000           35
Physical Contingencies (5%)              3,237        1,263         4,500           28
Total                             67,975        26,505        94,480           28
'1 Aluminium pipes 240 m and 4 sprinklers.
/2 Including family labor.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
APPRAISAL OF                    Table 2
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: 4 ha Private Farm with 1.0 ha Mixed Vegetables and
Small Scale Sprinkler Irrigation
Income and Expenditure Statement
Y e a r
Before Project            1           2           3-15
--------------------------'000 Din-----------------
Revenue
Cereals                          16.47                 17.10      17.74         18.59
Grapes                           12.00                12,50       12.75         13,25
Meadow                            0.38                    -          -
Vegetables                       28.24                47.94       51.68         57.70
Total                       57.09                77.54       82.17         89.54.
Operating Expenses
Seed                              4.34                  5.69       5.69          5.69
Fertilizer                        3.39                  3.57       4.20          4.60
Manure                            2.90                  3.50       3.50          3.50
Plant Protegtion                  2.30                  5.88       5.88          5.88
Machinery  /                      2.40                  7.65       7.65          7.65
Animal Power                      5.64                    -          -
Irrigation  /2                      -                  1.78        1.78          1.78
Maintenance /3                       -                    -          -           0.95
Insurance  /4                     1.71                 2,33        2.46          2.69
Interest on Seasonal              0.68                 0.91        0.94          0.98
Credit /5                      23.36                31.31       32.10         33.72
Total
Net Income                           33.73                46.23      50.07         55.82
/1 Including 1,600 Din/ha for wheat combine.
/2 ConsumDtion 1.7 Kw for 1,500 h at 0.7 Din/Kwh.
/3 Maintenance of irrigation equipment at 5% of investment.
/4 3% of production value.
/5 Based on 50% of operating expenses for six months at 12% annual interest.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL 4 HA PRIVATE FARM WITH 1.0 HA MIXED VEGETABLES
AND SMALL SCALE SPRINKLER -IRRIGATION
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)        (02)       (03)       (04)       (05)       (06)        (07)       (08)       (09)      (10 - 15)
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                            77,540    82,170    89,540    89,540    89,540    89,540    89,540    89,540    89,540    89,540
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                   75,580           0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)             18,900           0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
SHORT TERM LOAN                     15,200    15,580    16,370    16,370    16,370    16.370    16,370    16,370    16,370    16,370
SUIBTOTAL                          187,220    97,750   105,910   105,910   105,910   105,910   105,910   105,910   105,910   105,910
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS 3)                  31,310    32,100    33,720    33,720    33,720    33,720    33,720    33,720    33,720    33,720
INVESTMENT                          94,480           0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAYMENT           15,200    15,580    16,370    16,370    16,370    16,370    16,370    16,370    16,370    16,370
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 4)                0      5,617      6,235      6,920       7,682          0           0          0          0          0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 5)               0    11,230    11,904    12,618    13,375               0           0          0          0          0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%           1,455      2,910      2,292       1,606        845          0           0          0          0          0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%             1,474      2,948      2,274       1,560        803          0           0          0          0          0
SUBTOTAL                           143,919    70,385    72,795    72,794    72,795    50,090    50,090    50,090    50,090    50,090
CASH FLOW                           43,301    27,365    33,115    33,116    33,115    55,820    55,820    55,820    55,820    55,820
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN           (81,980)   16,340    22,090    22,090    22,090    22,090    22,090    22,090    22,090    22,090
1) 80% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Projected Financial Rate of Return
2) 20% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Financial Rate of Return:    24%
3) INCLUDING INTEREST ON SHORT TERM LOAN                                 Sensitivity Test
4) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Investment Costs    - 10*:    21
5) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Operating Expenses + 10%:    23
Revenues          - 10%      20
x w
uJI. 
Mo



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Individual Farmer Sector Land Development (5 ha)
1.        This model represents a farm where about 3 ha of wheat, maize and
sunflower and 1.5 ha of low yielding pasture are cultivated, but where 0.5 ha
are uncultivated because of insufficient drainage. The farm land is divided
into several small parcels, some of them with insufficient access.
2.        The investment under this model would include brush clearing, land
leveling, functional drainage and access roads.  The investments would also
include surveying of the plots to establish boundaries, machinery services
and consolidation of small parcels into larger plots to increase production
through better land utilization and mechanization. With the Project the
presently uncultivated 0.5 ha of land, with 1.0 ha of low yielding meadows,
would be reclaimed and would be transformed into more productive pasture.
The area under sunflower would be doubled, silo maize and tobacco would be
introduced as new crops. When the farm would reach its full development,
in the fourth year after investments are made, the annual farm income would
increase by about 120% from Din 11,120 to Din 24,820. The construction period
of land reclamation components of the model would be phased over a two year
period. The Project would provide for financing of about 750 ha of such land
in Slovenia and 4,750 ha in Croatia. The financial rate of return of the
investment over a period of 15 years is estimated to be 22%.
3.        The disbursement under this component would be made either in the
framework of individual investment made by the farmer, or in the framework
of land development scheme undertaken by a social sector enterprise. The
Bank funds would finance private sector share of these investments prorated
to their share of total acreage in the scheme.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
APPRAISAL OF                    Table 1
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Private Sector Land Developnment (5 ha)
Technical Coefficients
Cropping                        Yields
Without     With        Without                Y e a r
Project     Project    Project        1        2       3    4-15
--------ha---------    ------------------Ton/ha--------------
Wheat                          2.0         2.0         2.4        2.5     2.7      2.9      3.2
Haize                          0.5         0.5         3.3        3.5     3.8      4.3     4.7
Sunflower                      0.5         1.0         1.4        1.5     1.6      1.7     1.8
Tobacco                        -           0.5          -         0.5     0.6      0.7     0.8
Maize Silage                               0.5          -        23.0    27.0    29.0    30.0
Pasture                         -          0.5          -         2.8     3.4      4.6     5.8
Meadow                         1.5          -          3           -       -        -       -
Uncultivated                  0.5           -           _          _       _        _
Total                    5.0          5.0
On-farm Investment
No. of    Cost per    Local    Foreign    Total    % Foreign
Investment Items         Units      Unit        _ _       Exchange              Exchange
Land Levelling            -------------------- Iin----------------_
Land Levelling                     .---D--
Medium               1,600.m3     13         11,440    9,360       20,800      45
Light                  900dm3     13          6,435    5,265      11,700       45
Surveying                   5 ha    750           3,750      -         3,750
Functional
.Drainage              100 m       30          1,650    1,350       3,000
Access Roads              100. m      60          3,300    2,700       6,000       45
Engineering
Services                -           -         1,890       -         1,890
28,465   18,675                   40
Physical Contingencies
(5%)                                         _1,423       934       2,357
40
Total                       2~~~~~~~~19,=8=88   1~9,60~9    49 497'  40



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
APPRAISAL OF                    Table 2
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Private Sector Land Development (5 ha)
Expenditure and Income Statement
Without Project        1       2         3        4-15
-_____________----------Din---------------------
Revenue
Wheat                      13,200           13,750  14,850   15,950       17,600
Maize                       3,630            3,850   4,180    4,730        5,170
Sunflower                   3,880            8,310   8,860    9,420        9,970
Tobacco                       -              8,750  10,500   12,250       14,000
Maize Silage                                 4,600   5,400    5,800        6,000
Pasture                       -                500      860    1,150       1,450
Meadow                      1,130              -        -        -           -
Unclultivated                 300              -                 - 
Subtotal              22,140           39,760  44,650   49,300      54,190
Operating Expenses
Seed                        1,888            3,338   3,638    3,638        3,638
Fertilizer                  1,958            3,818   4,362    4,704        4,704
Manure                        500            1,000   1,000    1,000        1,000
Plant Protection              450            1,575   2,150    2,150        2,150
Services 71                 5,240           10,740  11,640   11,640       11,640
Hired Labor /2                -              3,750   3,750    3,750        3,750
Insurance  /3                 664            1,193   1,339    1,479        1,626
Interest on Seasonal
Credit /A                   321              762      836      851         855
Total                 11,021           26,176  28,715   29,212      29,363
Net Income                    11,119           13,584             _ 20088    24,827
/1  Ploughing, cultivation, harvesting and transport.
/2  Seasonal labor one man month.
/3  3% of production value.
/4  Based on 50% of operating expenses for six months at 12% interest.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT FROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL PRIVATE SECTOR LAND DEVELOPMENT (5 HA)
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)      (02)      (03)      (04)      (05)     (06)      (07)      (08)      (09)      (10)    (11 - 15)
CASH INFLOW
____ ------
REVENUES                          39,760   44,650   49,300   54,190   54,190   54,190   54,190   54,190   54,190   54,190   54,190
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                 39,598         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)            9,899         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
SHORT TERM LOAN                   12,707   13,940   14,180   14,254   14,254   14,254   14,254   14,254   14,254   14,254   14,254
SUBTOTAL                         101,964   58,590   63,480   66,444   68,444   68,444   66,444   68,444   66,444   68,444   68,444
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS                   26,176   28,715   29,228   29,363   29,363   29,363   29,363   29,363   29,363   29,363   29,363
INVESTMENT                        49,497         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAYMENT         12,707   13,940   14,180   14,254   14,254   14,254   14,254   14,254   14P254   14,254   14,254
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 4)              0         0    1,169    1,297    1,440    1,598    1,774    1,969    2,186    2,426                0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 5)             0         0    2,601    2,757    2,922    3,097    3,283    3,480    3,689    3,91                0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%           762    1,525    1,525    1,396    1,253    1,095           919       724       507       267         0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%            772    1,544    1,544    1,388    1,223    1,048           862       665       456       235         0
SUBTOTAL                          89,914   45,724   50,247   50,455   50,455   50,455   50,455   50,455   50,455   50,455   43,617
CASH FLOW                         12,050   12,866   13,233   17,989   17,989   17,989   17,989   17,989   17,989   17,989   24,827
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         (47,032)   4,816    8,969   13,708   13,708   13,708   13,708   13,708   13,708   13,708   13,708
1) 80% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Proiected Financial Rate of Return
2) 20% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Financial Rate of Return:   22%
3) INCLUDING INTEREST ON SHORT TERM LOAN                                  Sensitivity Test
4) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Investment Costs    + 10%:   20%
5) 52 % OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                            Operating Expenses  + 10%:   18%
Revenues           - 10%    15%
(  0
P.Ii 
LO 



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model No. 4: 4 ha Individual Farm with 1.0 ha Vineyard
1.        This model describes the development of one hectare of new vineyard
within a 4.0 ha farm including 2.5 ha cereals, 1 ha vegetables, fruits and
meadow and 0.5 ha of an old outgrown vineyard. The investment in the pre-
sented model would consist in clearing the 0.5 ha old vineyard and planting
1.0 ha of new grapes whereby the additional land would come from the area
under creals and the low yielding meadow.
2.        The investment would include machinery service, construction of
trellises and the purchase of a 6.8-HP motor cultivator with plow, trailer,
tiller and sprayer.
3.        The introduction of good quality rootstock and modern techniques
would improve yields from about 4 ton/ha at present to 12 ton/ha in the
future. These yields are moderate in comparison to actual obtained yields
in newly developed vineyards in the individual farmer sector. Farmers could
also be grouped to develop larger units (5-10 ha blocks) and instead of each
farmer purchasing his own motor cultivator 3-4 farmers would purchase in such
case one 35-HP tractor and its implements. Based on the investment cost
about 1,400 ha would be financed by the Project of which 180 in Vojvodina,
220 in Croatia, 180 in Bosnia Herzegovina, 270 in Kosovo and 550 in Macedonia.
As a result of these investments, the farmer total net income would increase
from Din 33,100 to Din 73,340 at full development, five years after the
Project starts. The expected rate of return of the investment over 20 years
would be about 16%.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: 4 ha Private Farm with 1 ha Vineyard
Technical Coefficients
Cropping                               Yields
Without Project      With  Project   Without-, Project       With  Project
--ha---------------                     -------------Ton/ha-------------
Wheat              1.5                  1.5                2.5                  2.8
Maize              1.0                  0.7                2.8                  3.2
Meadow             0.2                   -                 5.0                   -
Tomatoes           0.3                  0.3               21.0                 25.0
Cherries           0.5                 0.5                 3.0                  3.0
Grapes             0.5                  1.0                4.0                 12.0
Total         4.0                 4.0
Development of Grape Yields
Y e a r
1      2       3     4       5-24
--------------Kg/ha---------------
Before Project           4,000      -       -       -     -         -
After Project              -         -      -    3,500  7,000   12,000
On-farm Investment
Investment Item                 Number of      Cost           Y e a r                      Foreign                   % Foreign
Unit     per Unit        1         2         Local    Exchange       Total       Exchange
-------------------------Din-----------------------
Planting                          3,740          7.00     23,562      2,618      13,090    13,090        26,180           50
Manure      /I                    30 tons       0.20       6,000        -         6,000      -            6,000            -
Fertilizer -                       3,050 kg                4,033      2,269       4,097      2,205        6,302           35
Plant Protection                                 -           400        700         660        440        1,100           40
Trellises                                        -           -       40,200      30,150    10,050        4^,200           25
Hired Tractor Service             5 days          760      3,800        -         3,420         380       3,800           10
Motor Cultiv15or                  1           46,000      46,000        -        29,9G0    1.6,100        46,000          35
Hired Labor -                     500 hrs          25     12,500        -        12,500      -           12,500            -    - b
Family Labor                      150 hrs          20      1,800      1,200       3,000      -            3,000           -
Subtotal                                             98,095    46,987    102,817    42,265         145,082          29
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                    4,905      2,349       5,140      2,113        7,254          29
Total                                               103,000    49,336    107,957    44,378         152,336           29      #
/1 1,800 kg of quicklime at 1.80 Din/kg and 1,250 kg fertilizer at 2.45.
/2 75X of labor for planting.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: 4 ha Private Farm with 1 ha Vineyard
Income and Expenditure Statement
Y e a r
Without  Project           1         2          3         4     5-24
---------------------------------Din--------------------------
Revenue
Cereals                      16,470              15,190   15,760    16,480   16,480  16,480
Fruit and Vegetables         25,860             26,520   27,180    28,500   28,500  28,500
Meadow                          250                 -         -          -         -       -
Grapes                       10,000                 -         -      17,500   35,000  60 ,000
Total                  52,580              41,710   42,940    62,480   79,980 104,980
Operating Expenses
Seed                          2,890               2,790    2,790      2,790    2,790   2.790
Fertilizer                    3,045               2,375    2,530      5,320    5,320   5,320
Manure                        2,100               2,300    2,300       2,300    2,300   2,300
Plant Prot action             1,620               2,560    3,500       4,430    4,430   4,430
Machinery  1                  2,400               6,800    6,800       6,800    6,800   6,800
Animal Power                  4,580                 -         -          -
Maintenance of Trellises        -                   -         -          -         -        780
Hired Labor -                   -                   -         -          -       3,750   3,750
Insur nce  /3                 1,80                1,250    1,20       1,875    2,400   3,150
Tax   4                         700                 -         -       1,2900    1,400   1,400
Interest qn Seasonal
Credit  5                     565                 540      575        745       875      920
Total                   19,480             18,615   19,785    25,660   30,065  31,640
Net Income                      33,100              23,095   23,155    36,820   49,915  73,340
/1 Including 1,600 Din/ha for wheat combine harvesting.
/2 One man-month hired labor.
/3 3% of production value.
/4 Contribution to wine development fund. (1,400 Din/ha)
/5 Based on 50% of operating expenses for six months at 12% annual interest.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL VINEYARD
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)         (02)        (03)       (04)        (05)        (06)         (07)        (08)      (9 - a)
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                            41,710      42,940      62,480      79,980    104,980    104,980    104,980    104,980    104,980
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                   82,400      39,469            0           0           0           0           0           0           0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)             20,600        9,867           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
SHORT TERM LOAN                      9,073       9,605      12,457      14,595      15,360      15,360       15,360      15,360      15,360
SUBTOTAL                           153,783    101,881       74,937      94,575    120,340    120,340    120,340    120,340    120,340
CASH OUTFLOW
____ -------
OPERATING COSTS 3)                   18,615      19,785     25,660      30,065      31,640      31,640       3i,640      31,640      31,640
INVESTMENT                         103,000      49,336            0           0           0           0           0           0           0
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAYMENT             9,037       9,605      12,457      14,595     15,360       15,360      15,360      15,360      15,360
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 4)                 0           0           0      9,057      10,053      11,159       12,386           0           0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 5)                0           0           0     18,108      19,194      20,346      21,567            0           0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%           1,586       3,932       4,692       4,692       3,696       2,590        1,362           0           0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%            1,607       3,983       4,753       4,753       3,666       2,515        1,294           0           0
SUBTOTAL                           133,845      86,641      47,562      81,270      83,609      83,610       83,609      47,000      47,000
CASH FLOW                            19,938      15,240     27,375       13,305     36,731       36,730      36,731      73,340      73,340
======  =====      =====         ====-======            =====       =5==        ====        ====
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN          (113,005)   (59,281)        3,720      16,815      40,240      40,240      40,240      40,240      40,240
1) 80% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                            Projected Financial Rate of Return
2) 20X OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                            Financial Rate of Return:    16X
3) INCLUDING INTEREST ON SHORT TERM LOAN                                 Sensitivity Test
4) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Investment Costs   + 10%:    15%
5) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Operating Expenses + 10%:    16 
Revenues          - 10%:    15%
sLaj



ANNEX 3
Appendix 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model No. 5: 5 ha Individual Farm with 1 ha Cherries
1.        Model No. 5 represents a 5 ha individual farm where the farmer would
shift from mainly grain and sunflower to fruit production. The model presented
includes only sour cherries but subloans would be provided also for other fruit
categories like apples, peaches, plums, pears and soft fruits. Under pre-
project condition 3.7 ha are cultivated with maize and wheat, 1.0 ha with sun-
flower and 0.3 ha under vegetables usually near to the farmhouse. The farmer
still uses animal power for land preparation but rents harvesting services
from nearby kombinats or cooperatives. The Project income would be Din
17.470 per farm.
2.        The investment would include plant material, machinery services,
fertilizer and the purchase of a 6.8-HP two wheel motor cultivator with plow
trailer, tiller and sprayer. In case that several farmers want to develop
larger units and to explore them jointly, it would be possible for 3 to 4
farmers to substitute the individually owned motor cultivators by a large
35-HP tractor with implements. Total investment cost per farm would be
Din 86,820 extended over a two year period. The financial rate of return
would be 20%. Under the Project about 900 farmers in Vojvodina, 550 in
Croatia, 650 in Bosnia Herzogovina, 900 in Macedonia and 1,820 in Serbia
would be financed.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 5
APPRAISAL OF                         Table 1
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: 5 ha Private Farm with 1 ha Cherries
Technical Coefficients
Cropping                     Yields
Without          With        Without          With
Project          Project    Project           Project
----------ha-----------    --------Ton/ha---------
Wheat                                     2.5               2.5         2.5              2.8
Maize                                     1.2               1.2         2.8              3.2
Sunflower                                 1.0                -          1.4               -
Green Beans                               0.3               0.3         5.5              6.0
Cherries                                 _                  1.0          -               9.0
Total                                5.0              5.0
Prices and Development of Yields
Y e a r
1-4   5    6    7    8       9    10-20    21    22    23
------------------------Ton/ha-------------------------
Price per
kg
Cherries              8.0        -   3.6  4.6  6.0  7.0   8.0    9.0        8.0   6.0   4.6
On-farm Investment                                                     Y e a r
No. of  Cost per                           Foreign           % Foreign
Investment Item          Units   Unit          1       2    Local  Exchange  Total  Exchange
Plants                     332         30    9,960    -       9,960      -      0a,60      -
Manure                     40 ton      0.2   8,000    -       8,000      -      8,000      -
Fertilizer                600 kg       2.86    860    860   1,120        600    1,720    35
Plant Protection           -           -        -    1,000      600      400    1,000    40
Hired Machine
Services                4 days    760      3,040    -       2,740      300    3,040    10
Motor Cultivator          1       46,000    46,000    -    29,900  16,100   46,000    35
Hired Labor               90 h        25        -    2,250   2,250       -      2,250      -
Family Labor             540 h        20      6,900  3,900  10,800       -     10,800      -
Subtotal                               74,760  8,010  65,370  17,400   82,770    21
Physical Contin-
gencies (5%)                                3,740    400   3,270      870    4,140    21
Total                                  78,500  8,410  68,640  18,270   86,910    21



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Mbdel: 5 ha Private Farm with Cherries (1 ha)
Income and Expenditure Statement
Y e a r
Without Project  1         2        3         4        5        6        7         o        9      10-20     21        22       23-
-'------------------------ 000 Din -----------------------------
Revenue
Cereals                   24.58        25.53    26.48    27.70    27.70    27.70    27.70    27.70    27.70    27.70    27.70    27.70    27.70    27.70
Sunflower                  7.76          -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -
Green Beans                6.60         6.84      6.96     7.20     7.20     7.20      7.20     7.20     7.20     7.20      7.20     7.20      7.20     7.20
Cherries                    -            -         -        -        -      28.80    36.80    48.oo    56.oo    64.oo    72.00    64.oo    48.00    36.80
Subtotal             3894         32.37    33T.4     34.90   -3790    63.70    71.70         9     9.90    98 9    16  
Operating E,rpenses
Seed                       3.46         3.14      3.14     3.14     3.14     3.14      3.14     3.14     3.14     3.14      3.14     3.14     3.14      3.14
Fertilizer                 3.45         3.79      3.79     4.65     4.65     4.65      4.94     5.08     5.08     5.28      5.42     5.28      5.08     4.94
Manure                     1.80         1,80      1.80     1.80     1.80     1.80      1.80     1.80     1.80      1.80     1 1.80   1.80      1.80     1.80
Plant Protection           0.58         2.10      2.10     3.30     3.30     3.30      3.30     3.30     3.30     3.30      3.30     3.30      3.30     3.30
Animal Power               4.58           -        -        -        -         -        -        -        _ -                -        -         -        -
Machinery L                5.80          9.23     9.23     9.23     9.23      9.23     9.23     9.23     9.23      9.23     9.23     9.23      9.23     9.23
Packing Materi g-                         -        -        -        -       0.24      0.30     0.38     0.44      0.50     0.60     0.50      0.38     0.30
Skinled Labor 1                          -        -       1.25     2.50     4.00      4.oo     4.00     4.00      4.0o     4.00     4.00      4.00     4.00
Hired Labor4/               -             -        -        -        -         -       3.00     3.00     3.75      3.75     3.75     3.75      3.00     3.00
Insurance                  1.17         0.97      1.00     1.05     1.05     1.91      2.15     2.49     2.73      2.97     3.20     2.97      2.49     2.15
Interest on peasonal
Credit  o 0.63                      0.63      0.63     0.73     0.77     0.85      0.96     0.97     1.00      1.02     1.03     1.02      0.97     0.96
Subtotal             21.47       l2t S   -21-.9    25.15    26.W    29.12    32.82 M- 34.47    34. 99    35-.77    3799    33.39    3219
Net Inoce                    17.47         10.71    11.75     9.75     8.46    34.58    38.88    49.51    56.43    63.91    71.43    63.91    49.51    38.88
./1  Including 1.600 Din/ha for wheat combine harvesting.
2  For pruning.
Year 8-21 one man-month, year 6-7 80% respectivel.y.
3% of production value
Based on 50% of operating expenses for six months at 12% interest.
LJn



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL 5 HA PRIVATE FARM WITH 1,0 HA CHERRIES
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)      (02)       (03)      (04)    (05)    (06)    (07)        (08)      (09)      (10)    (11-20)
CASH INFLOW
____ ------
REVENUES                        32,370    33,440   34,900   34,900  63,700  71,700  82,900   90,900   98,900  106,900  106,900
LONG TERM LOAN 1)               62,800      6,730         0         0        0       0        0         0         0         0         0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)         15,700      1,680         0         0        0       0        0         0         0         0         0
SHORT TERM LOAN                 10,510    10,530   12,210   12,830  14,130  15,930  16,210   16,730   16,980   17,220   17,220
SUBTOTAL                       121,380    52,380   47,110   47,730  77,830  87,630  99,110  107,630  115,880  124,120  124,120
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS 3)              21,660    21,690   25,150   26,440  29,120  32,820  33,390   34,470   34,990   35,470   35,470
INVESTMENT                      78,500      8,410         0         0        0       0        0         0         0         0         0
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAYMENT       10,510    10,530   12,210   12,830  14,130  15,930  16,210   16,730   16,980   17,220   17,220
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 4)            0          0         0         0        0   3,908   4,338    4,815    59344    5,932             0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 5)           0          0         0         0        0   8,017   8,498    9,008    9,549   10,122             0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%       17612      2,547    2,677    2,677   2,677   2,677   2,247    1,770    1,240             653         0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%        1,633      2,580    2,712    2,712   2,712   2,712   2,231    1,721    1,180             607         0
SUBTOTAL                       113,915    45,757   42,749   44,659  48,639  66,064  66,914   68,514   69,283   70,004   52,690
CASH FLOW                        7,465      6,623    4,361    3,071  29,191  21,566  32,196   39'116   46,597   54,I16   71,430
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN       (85,260)  (14,130)  (7,720)  (9,010) 17,110  21,410  32,040   38,960   46,440   53,960   53,960
1) BO% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Prolected Financial Rate of Return
2) 20% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Financial Rate of Return:   20
3) INCLUDING INTEREST ON SHORT TERM LOAN                                  Sensitivity Test
4) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Investment Costs   + 10%:    19%
5) 52X OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                             Operating Expenses + 10%:    19%
Revenues          - 1%:    18%
0.o
I- 



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Component
1.        About 90% of livestock population is concentrated in the individual
sector farms. However production share of the individual farmer sector is
relatively low because of low quality breeds, insufficient food supplies and
lack of marketing outlets (see Annex 1, paras 49-63). Demand for livestock
products has been increasing continuously during the past 15 years and is
expected to continue to increase for the next five years. The Agricultural
Development Plan and the Social Plan for 1976-1980 emphasize the need for
increased livestock productivity in the individual farmer sector where there
exists a large room for improvement. The Project would help develop production
potential of the individual farmer sector through investments totalling US$95.2
million over a three year period.
2.        The typical investments are described in 7 farm models presented
below. They include the construction of cattle stables, pig barns, sheep
barns, poultry houses, silos and slurry pits, the purchase of heifers, ewes,
rams and farm equipment including tractors and implements, silo combines and
milking machines. The farm models are:
Farm Models                  Location                      Appendix
Dairy Development - North    Vojvodina, Slovenia,
Croatia, Serbia, Kosovo              1
Dairy Development - South    Bosnia - Herzegovina
Montenegro, Macedonia                2
Calf Fattening                Vojvodina, Serbia,
Bosnia & Herzegovina                 3
Pig Fattening                 Vojvodina, Serbia                    4
Sheep Breeding                Macedonia, Serbia                    5
Lamb Fattening                Montenegro, Serbia,
Bosnia - Herzegovina                 6
Broiler Production
(Individual Farm)            Kosovo                                7
3.        The projected investment, income and cash flow statements for these
models are shown in Appendices 1 to 7.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The Project would finance about 2,450 dairy farms in all republics
and provinces, about 500 calf fattening farms in Vojvodina, Bosnia-Herzegovina,
and Serbia and about 800 pig fattening farms in Vojvodina and Serbia. Sheep
development would be financed on 1,500 farms in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro,
Macedonia and Serbia and broiler production on 1,000 farms in Kosovo.
5.        A breakdown of Project cost, number of farms, list of major invest-
ment items and volume of incremental production is presented in Table 1.
Prices, yields and other technical coefficients used in the models are shown
in Table 2. Input and output prices are based on January 1977 prices. Since
prices are assumed to change proportionally over time, model calculations are
given in constant prices. A physical contingency of 5% has been included in
the investment costs to take into account differences in subprojects design
and location. As individual farmers pay tax according to the cadastral value
of their agricultural land (Annex 1, para 34) these taxes are the same before
and after the Project. They are therefore not taken into account in the
financial analysis of the subprojects. Family labor has not been costed
because of slight underemployment among individual farmers.
6.        Because of the small size of the farms, machines such as tractors
and implements or silo combines are justified only if they are used on several
farms. This is already acheived by different means. In some cases farmers
join together in a small association to purchase and operate the machinery,
as it is often the case in Slovenia for silo combines. In other instances a
farmer buys and operates the machinery, and provides services to his neighbor-
ing farmers against payment. This is a common practice in many areas. The
models which represent the typical farm exploitation include therefore only
a share of the tractor cost. As shown in farm model 1 a farmer who will be
investing alone in a machinery equipment would be collecting enough income
from his customers to repay for his equipment. In this model a tractor is
assumed to service about 5 farmers including the owner. Total service charge
paid by the 4 farmers to the owner is expected to amount to about Din 55,000
per year, of which about Din 40,000 would contribute to repay an annual debt
installment of Din 57,400.
7.        The respective investments, financial rates of return for the pro-
posed investments as well as sensitivity tests applied to them are summarized
below:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Farm Model Summary Results
Net Income Before
Operating Cost        Debt Service at
Farm Model             Investment     At Full Development      Full Development
-----_____________-----Din--------------
Dairy-North              320,360             85,470                   179,470
Dairy-South              291,900             69,270                   121,860
Calf Fattening           327,600            843,400                   191,600
Pig Fattening            170,100            627,100                    62,900
Sheep Breeding            79,700             50,280                   85,540
Lamb Fattening           105,000            150,030                    86,550
Broiler Production        89,250             70,980                    23,520
Farm Model:               Dairy N   Dairy S   Calf  Pig   Sheep  Lamb  Broiler
_________________________  %           -----------------------
Rates of Return
Basic                       24         21       27  37      19     23      28
Investments +10%            22         19       25   33     18    21       25
Op. Costs /1 +10%           22         19       19  17      14     19      18
Revenues /1 -10%            17         15        -   15      6      -      14
Price of Lean                -          -       10    -      -     12      -
Lean Animals +10%
Price of Fat Animals -5%     -          -       13    -      -     12       -
/1   In the case of Pig model operating costs are increased by 5%, and the
revenues decreased by 5%. If the operating costs are increased by 10%
or the revenues decreased by 10%, the return in each case would be
negative.



ABBNE= 4
APPRAISAL OF.                                                            Tble I
A s3COND AGCICULL CEDrrT PROJECT
YIBOSIAVIA
Livestock Comsponents - Private Sector
Project Cost by CoPmooent. FarminB Activitis  ad Incremental Prduction
Bosnia and
VoJvodina     Slovenis       C             Herc e         MontenCoto      Knsovn    Macedonia   Serbia      Total
__-------------  !!-  --------- - Us* E___U___                           -  ------___-_-----------o----------------------------------~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total ProJect Cost &
Dairy Farmin               5.3          5.7            11.1           10.7             6.5          7.9        4.3       7.1        58.6
Calve Fattening            3.6           -               -             3.6              -                       - -      3.6        10.8
Pig Fattening              4.2           -               -              -               -            -          -        5.4         9.6
Sheep Development           -            -               -             2.5             1.4           -         3.6       2.1         9.6
Broiler Production                                        _                                         6.1         -          _        5
Total                     13.1          5.7            11.1           16.8            7.9          14.0        7.9      18.2        94.7
Foreign Eichbange Cost
Dairy Farms                1.50         1.60            3.10           3.0             1.8          2.2        1.2       2.00       16.4
Calve Fattening            1.00          -               -             1.0             -                        -        1.00        3.0
Pig Fattening              1.20          _- _                                                                            1.50       2.7
Sheep Development                                        -             0.7             0.4           _         1.0       o.60       2.7
Broiler Production          -           _               _               __                          1.7         -         -          1.7
Total                      3.70         1.60            3.10           4.7             2.2          3.9        2.2       5.130      26.5
Bmc---------------_--------------------Number of Farms--------------------------------------------------------------------
Farming Activities /
Dairy Farms              250          260            500             550             480          360        220       330      2,950
Ca lve fattening         165            -              -             165               -                       -       170         500
Pig Fattening            350            _              _                                                       -       450         800
Sheep Development          -            -              -             350             200            -        650       300      1,500
Broiler Production        _                                                                     1000 ___l
Total                    765          260            500            1,065            680        1,360        870     1,250       6,750
________________--_-__------------------Number of Ite s---------                           ------------------------------
Major Investment Items
Farm Buildings           765          260            500            1,065           680         1,360        870     1,250      6,750
Tractors and Combines   100            70            150              300            200          100         80       .150      14150
Heifers                  900        1,000          2,000             2,100         1,700        1,200      1,100      1,200     11,200
Ewes                       -            -              -               -               -            -     25,000     6,000      31,000
Incremental Production
at Ebll Development
Milk (cow) million liters  4.8          5.5            10.6            8.6             6.8          6.5        4.9        6.3-      514.0
Beef '000 tons LW          8.6          0.4             0.8            12.3            0.4          0.5         0.3       8.6       31.9
Pigs '000 tons L1         10.5          _-                                                          -          -        13.0        23.5
dilk (sbeep)million liters -            -                              -               -            -          1.8        0.5        2.3
Mtton '000 tone LW         -            -              -              2.2              2.0           -         1.0        1.3        6.5
Wool tons                  -                                            -              -            -         50         20         70
Broilers tons LW           -            -              -               --              -        1,200           -         -      1,200
Breeding Heifers         300          300             600            650             550          350         400       350      3,500
B Based on allocation of funde snd on average investment coste per farm presented in the farm model.s  It ie expected that 20% of the funde would be disbursed
in the firet year and 40% in the second and third yesrs respectively.  The price contingencies were calculated in accordance With IBRD guidelines aesueing
the  following annual inflation rates for foreign and local costs:          Civil Works                Equipment
1977-79           9%*
1980              8%                         7.0%
2  It is estiuted that about 1,500 farmi  would be participating in the project the first year, 2,700 the second year and 2,550 the third year.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
'UGOSLAVIA
Livestock Models. Crops Characteristics per ha
Price     Yield      Seeds      Fertilizer      Tractor +      Misc.     Total      Gross       Net
Combine                  Costs      Income      Income
Din/kg    t/ha       ----------------Din----                      -       -      -       -      -
Maize North      W.o        2.2        3.5        375         750           3,000          175       4,300      7,700        3,400
(grain)         w          2.2       5.0        340        1,250           3,600          310       5,500    11,000        5,500
Maize North      w           -        45          220       1,250            4,000          330      5,800       - _
(silage)
Meadow North    W.O.        -          7           -          450             600           -        1,050       -
(ha,r equiv.)   w          -         10          -           900             900           -        1,800       -
Pasture North   W.O.        -          3.5         -          -              -
w          -          5.0        -           400            -              -          400       --
Maize South      W.o.       2.2        2.0        375          400          2,200          125       3,400      4,4oo        1,300
(grain)         w          2.2        3.0       340          750           3,300          210       4,600      6,600        2,000
Maize South      w           -        30          220          750           3,600         230       4,800       --
(silage)
MeadoiT South    w.o.       _          4           -           300             500           -         800       -
(hay equiv.)   w           _          6          -           800             900           -        1,700       -
Pasture South   W.O.        -          2           -            -            -               -        -          -
v-_       3           -           300            -                         300       -
w.o.  =  Without ProJect                                                                                                      p|x
w     =  With Project                                                                                                         M S



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Component
Farm Model 1: Dairy Development - North
1.        Dairy production is the most important activity to be developed by
the Project in the individual farmer sector, and would be a major project com-
ponent in all republics or provinces. Due to different farm size and weather
conditions, two separate dairy farm models have been prepared to assess the
feasibility of possible on-farm investment. From the experience of the First
Credit Project, it appears that in most cases the farms having a good potential
for development would be the ones whose owners are fully employed in farming
rather than the smallest farms whose owners are often part-time farmers (with
off-farm income representing 70-80% of total income).
2.        The first model represents a typical farm to be developed in the
northern republics (Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and Vojvodina). The farmer has
got already four good cows (Simmenthal breed), and would expand the herd to 10
cows by buying 4 and rearing 2 from his own herd. Investments would vary from
farm to farm, but would include building of a new barn or improvement and
extension of an existing one, silo construction, a slurry pit, a milking
machine, and farm machinery for feed production (tractor, trailer, hay rake,
mower, baker, slurry tanker, silo combine ...) usually to be shared between
several farmers (see Annex 4, para 6). Dairy cows would be either purchased
locally or imported (Simmenthal breed usually). Based on the average invest-
ment cost described below, and on the funds allocated for these developments,
the number of farms to be financed by the Project would be about 250 in
Vojvodina, 260 in Slovenia, 500 in Croatia, 330 in Serbia, and 360 in Kosovo
or a total of 1,700 farms, over a three-year period. The number of farms to
be financed under the Project represent about 10-15% of the programs designed
for the areas where the proposed Project investment would take place.
3.        The feed base would be increased by intensifying meadows and pas-
tures and by replacing some grain production by maize for silage. Grain
production would also benefit from mechanization. All crops would benefit
from the availability of slurry. Male calves, assumed to be sold at about
120 kg before Project would be intensively fed to a weight of 320 kg at
10 months.
4.        Technical coefficients, investment costs, herd projections and farm
income and expenditures statement and cash flow are presented in Tables 1
through 4 of this Appendix. The financial rates of return calculated for
the proposed investment are satisfactory. They vary between 17% and 24%
depending on revenue and cost assumptions.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Table    1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 1: Dairy Development - North
Technical Coefficients and Investments
Cropping                         Yields
------ha                        ----ton/ha-----
Without   With                   Without   With
Project   Project                Project   Project
Cereals                       4.0       2.5                     3.5        5.0
(Maize equivalent)
Meadow                         2.0      2.0                     7.0       10.0
(Hay equivalent)
Maize Silage                    -       1.5                      -        45.0
Housefarm, garden              1.0      1.0                      -          -
Orchard
7.0      7.0
pasture                        2 .0     2.0                     2.0        3.0
On-Farm Investments
Number of  Cost Per            Foreign             % Foreign
Units     Unit        Local Exchange  Total    Exchange
----'000 Din--------
Cow Barn Extension/l      8.3      10,000        70.5   12.5      83.0        15
Slurry Pit                1        48,000        43.2    4.8      48.0        10
Tower Silo                1        33,600        30.2    3.4      33.6        10
Milking Machine           1        15,000         9.5   10.5      15.0        70
Farm Machinery /2        1/5      190,000        24.7   13.3      38.0        35
Silo Combine             1/10      75,000         3.7    3.8       7.5        50
Animals                   4        20,000        40.0   40.0      80.0        50
216.9   88.2    305.1
Physical Contingencies 5%                        10.9    4.4      15.3       29
Total                                     227.8   92.6    320.4         29
1/ Increase of housing capacity from 5.5 to 13.8 animal units. Includes electricity,
water and all equipment.
2/ Machinery to be shared by farmers: tractor (35 hp) with trailer and attachments
(such as plough, harrow, or hay making equipment).



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                            Appendix 1
Table 2
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 1: Dairy Development - North
Herd Development Projections
i                   .
Without                Year
Project    1         2         3        4-15
-___________------Din-------------------
Herd Composition /1
Cows (beg. of yearT            4         4        8         8.8      10
Heifers 1-2 years              0.8       0.8      1.6       3.0        2
Calves /2: Females             1.6       1.6      3.6       3.5       4
Males               1.6      1.6       3.6      3.5        4
Total Number                8         8       16.8      18.8      20
Total Animal Unit/3         5.5       5.5     11.3      13.0      13.8
Sales
cull Cows /4                   0.8       0.8      0.8       1.8       2
1 Year Old Heifers             0.8       -        o.6       1.5       2
Male Calves                    1.6       1.6      3.6       3.5       4
Purchases
Heifers in Calf                          -             -         -
Milk Production /5
Average Per Cow Fer Year  2,200    2,200    2,500    2,e00        3,000
Total Feed Requirements  13'900   13,900   32,500   38,250    hl,300
(feed unii                       1
/1 Due to the small size of the herd, the average theoretical herd projection
can be shown only by using decimal figures - Rounding would cause too
much distortion in the cash flow statement.
/2 Calving rate 80%,in Year 2, 100% from the heifers purchased in calf.
Mortalities covered by insurance.
/3 Animal Units : Cows = 1, Heifers = 0.7, Calves = 0.3.
/4 Culling rate : 20%. In Year 2 no culling on the newly bought heifers.
/5 Net of calve consumption.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 1: Dairy Development - North
Income and Expenditure Statement
Without
ProJect     1          2         3         _
Revenue                       ------------------ Din- - -------------------
Cereals (maize equiv.)         30,800    30,800    33,000    33,000       27,500
Garden, Orchard                27,000    27,000    27,000    27,000       27,000
Milk (3.7% fat. 4.7 Din/1)    41,360    41,360    94,000   115,810    141,000
Cull Cows (500 kg, 18 Din/kg) 7,200       7,200      7,200    16,200      18,000
Heifers (11,000 Din/head)       8,800      -         6,600    16,500      22,000
Males /2                        5380      5,38      26,500    25,760      29
Total              120,540   111,740   194,300   234,270    29240
Operating       (see Annex 4 Table 2 for the costs of crops and table 1-1 for
Expense          herd projections)
Cereals (maize equiv.)         17,200    17,200    16,500    16,500       13,750
Moeadows                        2,100     2,100      3,600     3,6Cc       3 ,6co
Maize for Silage                 -         -         5,800     5,800       8,700
Pasture                          -         -           800       800         800
Garden, Orchard                 7,000     7,000      7,000     7,000       7,000
Concentrate Feed /1
(2.6 Din/kg)                  4,990     4,990    19,240    22,540      26,780
Veterinary Services
and Al (400 Din/AU)           2,200     2,200     4,520      5,200       5,520
Insurance (600 Din/AU)          3,300     3,300      6,780     7,800       8,280
Electricity, water,
building maintenance
and miscellanenus
(800 Din/AU)                 4 400      4 400     9 040    10 400      11.040
41,190    41,190    73,2Bo    79',90      85,470
/1  The assumptions on the use of concentrate are: cOws, lkg per 3 1 milk over 2000 1 per
lactation; Male calves: 800 kg (pre project 100 kg); Replacement Heifers from
0 to 24 months: 700 kg.
12 120 kg per head at 28 Din/kg in years o and 1;
320 kg per head at 23 Din/kg from year 2 onwards.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT -NORTH
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)      (02)      (03)      (04)      (05)     (06)      (07)      (08)      (09)      (10)    (11 - 15)
CASH INFLO0.
REVENUES                          11ii740  194P300  234,270  264P940  264,940  264,940  264,940  264o940  264P940  264F940  264F940
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                 256,290         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)            64,070         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0
SUBTOTAL                          432,100  194,300  234P270  264P940  264,940  264,940  264,940  264,940  264w940  264,940  264,940
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS                    41,190   73,280   79P640   85,470   85,470   85,470   85,470   85,470   85,470   85,470   85,470
INVESTMENT                        320,360         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 3)               0   19,046   21,141   23,467   26,048            0         0         0         0         0         0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 4)              0   38,08I   40,365   42,787   45,355.           0         0         0         0         0         0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%          1t584 5) 9,867    7,772    5P447    2,865            0         0         0         0         0         0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDSP6%           1,605 5) 9,995    7,710   S5289    2,721             0         0         0         0         0         0
SUBTOTAL                          364,739  150,269  156P628  162,460  162,459   85,470   85,470   85,470   85,470   85,470   85P470
CASH FLOW                          67,361   44,031   77,642  102P480  102,481  179,470  179,470  179,470  179,470  179,470  179,470
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         (329,160)  41,670   75P280  100,120  100,120  100,120  100,120  100,120  100,120  100,120  100,120
1) 80X OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                            Financial Rate of Return     24%
2) 20X OF INVESTMENT COSTS
3) 28X OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                            Investments    - 10%:        22,
4) 52 X OF INVESTMENT COSTS                                           Operating Costs + 10%o      22%
5) Three months interest on the cost of barn, silo,                   Revenues       - 10%         17%
slurry pit in the first year.
IE 4
>  a:
Q-.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Component
Farm Model 2: Dairy Development - South
1.        This second model would apply to Bosnia, Montenegro and Macedonia.
It describes the case of a farmer having three low yielding cows (Busha breed),
buying five dairy cows (improved breed such as Simmenthal or Montafon)? and
using the heifers produced on the farm to replace the Busha cows by Simmenthal.
As in Model 1, investments would include buildings, silos, farm machinery and
the purchase of animals which can be partly imported. Based on the average
investment cost estimated below, and on the allocation of funds, the number of
farms of this type to be financed by the Project would be 579 in Bosnia, 480
in Montenegro and 220 in Macedonia.
2.        All crops would be intensified by mechanization and increased use
of inputs, including on-farm produced manure. Some grain production would
be replaced by maize for silage or green fodder to increase feed production
(Appendix 2, Table 2). Assumptions used for the improved animals are the
same as in Model 1, but with a slightly lower milk yield. In year 2 and 3,
only 2.5 ha of maize fodder would be necessary. With irrigation yields
would be similar to those in Model 1 and less land would be necessary to
maintain the cattle.
3.        Herd development projections are given in Appendix 1, Table 1.
They constitute the basis for the calculation of cost estimates for invest-
ments, operating costs and revenues presented in Table 3. Financial analysis
of the model presented in Appendix 2, Table 4 shows that the returns would
vary between 15% and 21% according to revenue and cost assumptions.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
APPRAISAL OF                                   Table   1
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 2 : Dairy Development - South
Xerd Development Projections
Without                           Year
Pi'oect   1       2        3       4                 6        7-15
Herd Composition /1
Busha Breed:
Cow(ber. of year)               3        3        3        3       2        1        -         -
Heifer 1-2 yrs.                 0.6      -        -        -       -        -        -
Calves/2: males                 1.2      1.2      1.2     1.2      o.8      0.4      -         -
females              1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2     0.8      0.4      -         -
Simmenthal:
Cows                            -        -        5       5        6        6.8      7.8       8
Heifer 1-2 yrs.                 -        -        -       2        2        2.4      1.8       1.6
Calves /2 : 0-1 yr males        -        -        2       2        2.4      2.7      3.1       3.2
Females            -        -        2        2       2.4      2.7      3.1       3.2
Total Number                  6        5.4    14.4    16.14    16.4    16.4    15.8         16
Total Animal Unit /3          4.1      3.7      9.9    11.3    11.3    11.3    10.9         11
Sales
Cull Cows /
Busha                           0.6      -        -        1       1        1        -         -
Simyenthal                      -        -        -       1        1.2      1.4      1.6       1.6
1 yr. Old Ileifers:
Busha                           0.6      1.2      1.2      1.2     0.8      0.4      -         -
Simnthal                        -        -        -        -       -        0.9      1.5       1.6
Male Calve:
Busha                           1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2     0.8      0.4      -         -
Simmenthal                      -        -        2        2       2.4      2.7      3.1       3.2
Purchases
Simmenthal Heifers               -        5        -       -        -        _        _         _
(in calve)
Milk Production per
Cow per year (liters)
Busha                         800      800      800     800      800      800        -
Simmenthal                      -        -   2,200   2,500   2,800   2,800   2,800    2,800
Total Feed Require
ments  FU)                6,350   5,600  22,750  27,350  29,750  31,550  32,200   32-,550
/1 Due to the small size of the herds the average theoretical herd projection can be shown
only by using decimal figures. Rounding would cause too much distortion in the cash
flow statement.
/2 Calving rate 80%. Mortalities covered by insurance - Calving 100% in year 2 for
the newly bought heifers.
/3 A-mimal units   Cows = 1; heifers = 0.7; calves = 0.3.
/  Culling rate = 20%. In year 2 no culling on the newly bought heifers. No culling of Busha
cow in years 1 ane 2.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Table    2
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 2:  Dairy Development   South
Technical Coefficients and Investments
Cropping                       Yields
Without    With                Without  With
Project    Project             Project  Project
---     ha --------            -----ton/ha----
Cereals (maize equivalent)   4.0          0.5                 2.0       3.0
Meadow (hay equivalent)       2.0         2.0                 4.0       6.0
Maize fodder                   -          3.5                  -        3.0
House farm, garden,           1.0         1.0                  -         -
orchard
Total Cultivated area         7.0         7.0
Pasture                       2.0         2.0                 2.0       3.0
On Farm Investment
No. of   Cost per                 Foreign            % Foreign
Investment Items       Units     Unit          Local  Exchange  Total    Exchange
Cow Barn /1             6.9   10,000          58,650  10,350   69,000        15
Improvement of          4.1   20,500          20,500      -     20,500        0
existing barn  /2
Silo /3                 1     28,000          25,200   2,800   28,000        10
Milking Machine         1     15,000           9,500  10,500   15,000        70
Farm Machinery/4
Tractor               1/5  190,000          24,700  13,300   38,000        35
Silo Combine          1/10  75,000           3,750   3,750    7,500       50
Heifers in Calf         5     20,000          50,000  50,000  100,000        50
167,300  90,700  298,000
Physical Contingencies  5%                     9,360   4,540   13,900        33
Total                                        196,660  95,24C  291,900        33
1/ Extension 6.9 An. units x 10,000 Din/AU
2/ 4.1 AU x 5000 Din.
3/ 50 m3 x 560 Din/m3
4/ Tractor to be shared by 5 farmers; silo combine to be shared by 10 farmers.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 2: Dairy Development - South
Income and Expenditure Statement
WithQut
__                         6      ~~~~~~~~~T415
Project   1         2 -                         ___  ~ -~_        -41
Revenue                                                                              ________________nDin ---- ----
Cereals (maize equiv.)  17,600   17,600    9,900    9,900    3,300    3,300    3,300    3,300
Garden, Orchard         27,000   27,000   27,000   27,000   27,000   27,000   27,000   27,000
Milk /2                 10,080   1o,o8o   61,780   68,830   85,680   92,850  102,650  105,280
Cull Cows /3              3,070     -        -       14,120  .15,920   17,720   14,40oo  144, 4i,0
Heifers /4                2,400    4,800    4,800    4,800    3,200   11,500   16,500   17,600
Males /5                  2 210    2 210   16,930   16,930   19,670   20,610   22.820   23,550
Total                62,36o   61,690  120,2410  1141,580  154,770  172,980  186',670  191,130
Operatina Expense
Cereals (maize equiv)   13,600   13,600    5,100    5,100    1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700
Meadows                   1,600    1,600    3,400    3,400    3,400    3,400    3,400    3,400
Maize for Silage           -        -      12,000   12,000   16,800   16,800   16,800   16,800
Pasture                    -        -          600      600                6co 600  600       600
Garden, Orchard           7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000
Concentrate Feed
(2.6 Din/Kg)             -         -       9,360   11,700   15,390   17,450   19,530   19,970
Veterinary Services
and Z  (400 Din/AU)     1,640    1,480    3,960    4,520    4,520    4,520    4,360    4,400
Insurance (600 Din/AU)   2,460    2,220    5,940    6,780    6,780    6,780    6,540    6,600
Electricity, Water,
Building Maintenance
and Miscellaneous
(800 Din/AU)             3,280    2,960    7,920    9,040    9,040    9,040    8,720    8.800
Total              29,580   28,860   55,280   60,140   65,230   67,290   68,650   69,270
l/   Based on Annex 4 table 2 for costs of crops aid on herd development projections in
table 2-1.
2/   Milk from Busha cow = 3.3% fat, 4.2 Din/l. From Simmenthal = 3.7% fat, 4.7 Din/l.
3/   Busha = 320 kg at 16 Din/kg.  Simmnthal = 500 kg at 18 Din/kg.
74   Busha = 4,000 Din/head.  Simmenthal   11,000 Din/head.
c/   Busha = 80 kg; Simmenthal = 320 kg. - 23 Din/kg.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT-SOUTH
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)       (02)      (03)      (04)     (05)      (06)      (07)      (08)       (09)      (10)      (11)
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                            61,690  120,410  141,580  154,770  172,980  186,670  191,130  191,130  191,130  191,130  191,130
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                  233,520         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)             58,380         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
SUBTOTAL                           353,590  120,410  141,580  154,770  172,980  186,670  191,130  191,130  191,130  191,130  191,130
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS                     28,860   55,280   60,140   65,230   67,290   68,650   69,270   69,270   69,270   69,270   69,270
INVESTMENT                         291,900         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 3)                0    8,354    9,273   10,293   11,426   12,682   14,077   15,626                0         0         0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 4)               0   18,083   19,168   20,318   21,538   22,830   24,200   25,651                0         0         0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,ll%           1,131    8,991    8,072    7,052    5,919    4,662    3,267    1,719                0         0         0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%            1,146    9,107    8,022    6,872    5,653    4,361    2,991           1,539         0         0         0
SUBTOTAL                           323,037   99,815  104,675  109.765  111,826  113.185  113,805  113,805   69.270   69,270   69,270
CASH FLOW                           30,553   20,595   36,905   45,005   61,154   73,485   77,325   77,325  121,860  121,860  121,860
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN          (291,850)  32,350   48,660   56,760   72,910   85,240   89,080   89,080   89,080   89,080   89,080
1) 80% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
2) 20% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
3) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
4) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
5) THREE MONTHS INTEREST ON THE COST OF BARN AND SILO
Financial Rate of Return  =  21X
Sensitivity:   Investments    +10% = 19%
Operating Costs  +10% = 19%
Revenues         -10% = 15%                                              X



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Component
Farm Model 3: Calf Fattening
1.        Intensive beef fattening would be developed by the Project in Serbia,
Vojvodina and Bosnia-Herzegovina. Various schemes have been presented to the
mission, varying in intensity (liveweight gain 0.9 to 1.3 kg per day) and in
duration (130 days, from 120 to 400 kg liveweight, or 180 days, from 200-220
kg to 400-440 kg liveweight).
2.        Investments would include a fattening barn equipped with drinkers
and feeders (including possibly belt conveyors for feed), silos, farm machinery
for feed production. A farm unit would have a capacity varying from 20 to 100
calves - farmers could also be grouped (say 5 together) to develop larger units
(500 calves per cycle).
3.        The model presented below describes a typical case of a farmer
shifting from grain production to maize fodder (green or silage) for meat
production. Concentrate feed, feeder animals, veterinary services, technical
advice and market outlet would be provided by a kombinat or a cooperative.
Because of the volatility of the beef export meat (Annex 1, para 50) each
subproject would have to present detailed information on the expected export
markets and would have to be reviewed and approved by the World Bank.
4.        There would be two cycles of 6 month fattening, from an initial
weight of 220 kg to a final weight of 440 kg (liveweight gain = 1.22 kg/day).
The feed would be fodder maize produced by the farmer, used either as green
or as silage, depending on the season, and a concentrate (maize grain, bran
soybean meal, minerals). Average intake would be 17 kg of fodder or silage
and 3 kg of concentrate per day.
5.        Based on the investment cost of the typical farm presented in the
model and on the allocation of funds for this activity, the number of farms
to be financed by the Project would be 170 in Serbia, 165 in Vojvodina and
165 in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
6.        Financial analysis of this model presented in Appendix 3, Table 3
shows the extreme sensitivity of the investment to the market price of meat.
The investment is however justified in view of its normally high return (27%)
and the relative unlikely event of drastic drop in market prices in the future.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
Table    1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 3: Calf Fattening
Technical Coefficients and Investments
Cropping                Yields
Without   With           Without  With
Project   Project        Project  Project
-------ha --------       -------tons/ha---
Grains (maize equivalent)         6.0       -               5.0       -
Industrial Crop
(example sunflower)               2.0      1.8             2.0       1.8
Fodder Maize                       -       6.0               -      45.0
House Garden, orchard             1.0      1.0                        -
Total                             9.0      9.0
On Farm Investments
No.of     Cost per            Foreign
Investment Items       Units       Unit     Local   Exchange   Total    Exchange
Stable /1                1       187,000   158,950   28,050   187,000         15
Equipment /2             -          -       30,000   30,000    60,000         50
Trench Silo /3           1        50,000    45.000    5,000    50,000        10
Silo Combine /4          1/5      75,00       7,500    7,500    15,000        50
241,450  -70,550   312,000
Physical Contigencies 5%                    12,070    3,530    15,600         23
Total                                      253,520   74,080   327,600
1/ 50 calves capacity - 3m2 per calf = 150 m2; store = 20 m2; cost = 170 m2 x 1100 Din/m2
2/ Drinkers, feeders, feed belt conveyors
3/ 250 m3 x 200 Din/m3
4/ To be shared by 5 farmers



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
Table    2
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 3: Calf Fattening
Income and Expenditure Statement
Without
Project           With  Project
Revenue                               ---------~~_______-----Din ---------------
Re venue                                                           Year 1      21
Garden, Orchard                                   27,000           27,000    27,000
Other crops - 2 ha                                4o,oo0                 40,0004
Grains (maize) 5,000 kg/ha x 2.2 Din/kg           66,ooo           33,000   9
Animals 100 x 440 kg x 22 Din/kg                    -              48484,000  ,968500
133,000          5814,000   103,500
Operating Expense /1                                          Without
_______________    _                           Th~~~~~~~PQject  -With  Project
Garden, Orchard                                                 7,000            7,000
Other crops : 3,000 Din/ha x 2                                  6,ooo            6,ooo
Maize L2                                                       33,000           34,8oo
Purchase of animals : 100 x 540 kg x 25 Din/kg                   -             550,000
Concentrate feed: 100 x 540 kg x 2.6 Din/kg                      -             140,400
Veterinary Services: 50 Din per head                             -               5,000
Insurance: 100 Din/head                                          -              10,000
Other (kombinat services): 400 Din per head                      -              4o,ooo
Building maintenance and replacement of small equipment          -               8,800
Interest on short-term credit (6% of animals and
concentrate feed)                                              -              41,4oo
Total         846,00          843,400
The first year of operations, it is assumed that there would be only one cycle
of fattening, with only 3 ha of maize shifting from grain to fodder.
/1 See Annex 4, table 2 for cost of crops.
/2 Pre-project = 6 ha for grain at 5,500 Din/ha.
With Project = 6 ha for fodder at 5,800 Din/ha.



AFFRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL CALF FATTENING
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)        (02)        (03)        (04)        (05)         (06)        (07)        (08)        (09)
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                            133,000    584,000  I,035.000  1,035,0OO  i,035,000  1,035,000  1,035,000  I,035,000  1,035,000
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                   262,080            0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)              65,520            0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
SHORT TERM LOAN                           0    286,000    572,000    572,000    572,000    572,000    572,000    572,000    572,000
SUBTOTAL                            460,600    870,000  1,607,00O  1,607,000 i0607,000  1,607,000  1,6076 000  1,607,000  1,607,000
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS 3)                   46,000    444,500    843,400    843,400    843,400    843,400    843,400    843,400    843,400
INVESTMENT                          327,600            0           0           0           0            0           0           0            0
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAYMENT                  0    286,000    572,000    572,000    572,000    572,000    572,000    572,000    572,000
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 4)                 0      19,476      21,619       23,997      26,636            0           0           0           0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 5)                0      38,941      41,228       43,754      46,379            0           0           0           0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%                0      10,090       7,948        5,570       2,930            0           0           0           0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%                 0      10,221       7,885        5,408       2,783            0           0           0           0
SUBTOTAL                            373,600    809,228  1,494,080  1,494,129  1,494,128  1,415,400  1,415,400  I,415,400  1,415,400
CASH FLOW                            87,000      60,772    112P920    1i2,871    112,872    191,600    19I,600    191,600    191,600
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN           (327,600)    52,500    104,600    104,600    104,600    104,600    104,600    104,600    104,600
1) BOX OF INVESTMENT COSTS
2) 20X OF INVESTMENT COSTS
3) INCLUDING INTEREST ON SHORT TERM LOAN
4) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
5) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
SHORT TERM LOANS ONLY FORE  THE FURCHASE OF ANIMALS
OTHER SHORT TERM LOANS ARE IN KIND
Financial  Rate of Return = 27%                                                   L  4x
Sensitivity: Investments          +10% = 25%
Operating Costs       +10% = 15%
Price of Lean Animals  +10% = 10%
Price of Fat Animals   - 5% = 13%
Price of Fat Animals   +10% = Negative
Price of Fat and Lean
Animals             -10% = 13%



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Component
Farm Model 4: Pig Fattening
1.        Pig production would be developed by the Project in Serbia and
Vojvodina. The model presented here includes only investments in facilities
for pig fattening, but the Project could also finance facilities for sows.
2.        The typical farmer would have a 6 ha farm, including 4 ha of maize,
or other cereals, I ha of industrial crop (sugarbeet, sunflower), and I ha
for the house farm with garden and orchard, representing a gross income of
about Din 90,000 and a net income of Din 50,000. Although not included in
the model for which changes in cropping pattern are not expected under the
Project, investments for farm mechanization could be financed by the Project
if justified for an increase of grain production.
3.        Pig production will be developed in areas where it is already
well-known activity and where good performance can be expected without diffi-
culties. The capacity of the stable would be for about 100 pigs. Fattening
operations would involve three production cycles per year to be delivered to
a kombinat or a cooperative which would supply the farmers with piglets and
mixed feed on credit in kind, and provide him with technical assistance and
veterinary services. The number of farmers involved would be about 350 in
Vojvodina and 450 in Serbia. Estimates for investment costs, operating ex-
penses and revenues are given in Appendix 4, Table 1 and financial analysis
of the Model is presented in Appendix 4, Table 2. As for calf fattening,
the investment is sensitive to feed cost and to the price of pork, however
in view of the high financial return under prevailing circumstances (37%)
and high demand for pork in Yugoslavia, the investment is justified.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4
Table    1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 4: Pig Fattening
Income and Expenditure Statement
Revenues                                                   With
-Project
Din
Pigs: 300 x 100 kg x 23 Din/kg                              690,000
Operating Expense
Purchase of animals: 300 x 25 kg x 34 Din/kg                255,000
Feed: Starter: 300 x 110 kg x 3.4 Din/kg
Finisher 300 x 190 kg x 3.1 Din/kg                    288,900
Veterinary Services: 300 x 30 Din per pig                     9,000
Insurance:            300 x 70 DLn per pig                   21,000
Other (kombinat services) 300 x 80 Din per pig               24,000
Maintenance of building and equipment                          5,100
Interest on short-term credit
(12% per year on 1/3 of operating costs)                    24,000
Total        627,100
On Farm Investment
No. of    Cost per          Foreign            % Foreign
Investment Items       Units      Unit      T.ocal Exchange  Total   Exchange
 --------  Din----------------
Building /1               1     103,000   87,550  15,450   103,000    15
Equipment /2             -         -       29,500  29,500    59,000    50
117,050  44,950   162,000
Physical Contingencies 5%                   5,850   2,250      8,100    28
Total                                     122,900  47,200   170,100    28



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT FPROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL PIG FATTENING
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)            (02)           (03)           (04)            (05)           (06)            (07)
CASH INFLOW
____ ------
REVENUES                                   0       690,000         690P000        690,000        690,000         690,000        690,000
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                   136,080               0              0               0              0               0              0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)              34,020               0              0               0              0               0              0
SUBTOTAL                            170,100        690,000         690,000        690,000        690,000         690,000        690,000
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS                            0       627,100         627,100        627,100        627,100         627,100         627,100
INVESTMENT                          170,l00               0              0              0               0               0              0
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 3)                  0          7,648          8,489          9,423          10,459         11,610               0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 4)                 0         15,691         16,633         17,630          18,688         19,810               0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%                0           5,239          4,398          3,464           2,428          1,277               0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%                  0          5F307          4,366          3,368           2,310          1,189               0
SUBTOTAL                            170,100        660,985         660,986        660,985         660,985        660,986         627,100
CASH FLOW                                  0         29,015         29,014         29,015          29,015         29,014          62,900
======   ===5======                      ====          =====-=====                    =====
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN           (170,100)         62,900         62,900         62,900          62,900          62,900         62,900
1) 80X OF INVESTMENT COSTS
2) 20% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
3) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
4) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
Financial Rate of Return:    37%
Investments      +10% = 33%
Operating Costs   + 5% = 17%
Revenues         - 5% = 15%
2.5 cycles per year (instead of 3) - 30% 
Price of finished pigs and piglets  -10% = 8%
X. I
4:



ANNEX 4
Appendix 5
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Component
Farm Model 5: Sheep Breeding
1.        This model describes the development of a flock by expanding its
size and building new wintering barn facilities and by improving the feed
supply through pasture improvement. The introduction of good quality ewes
and rams - partly imported - would also improve the breed. This scheme
would apply to about 650 farms in Macedonia, and about 150 farms in Serbia.
2.        By expanding the ewes number from 100 to 160 - both from purchases
and by keeping female lambs - and by improving flock productivity, it is
expected that farmers net income would increase by about 50% in four years
(20% after debt service).
3.        The basic data for the cost-benefit calculations i.e. the flock
development model, income and expenditure statement and investment costs
are presented in Appendix 5, Tables 1, 2 and 3. Financial analysis of the
model is presented in Table 4 and shows an adequate financial rate of return.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 5
Table   1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 5:  Sheep Breeding - Flock Projections
Witout                    Year
Pro,ject   1       2        3        4       5-15
Lambing Rate %                  85       85       85       90      95        95
Mortality Lambs %               10       10        9        9       8         8
Mortality Ewes - hoggets %       5        5        4        3        3        3
Culling Rate Ewes %             20       20       20      20       20        20
Composition
- Rams                           2        2        3        3       3         3
- Ewes                         100      100      140     142      160       160
- Hoggets                       26       26       38       52      38        38
- Lambs                         84       84      119     128      152       152
Total                       212      212     300      325      353       353
- Sheep Units /1               128      128      181     192      201       201
Mortality
- Ewes                           4        4        6        4       5         5
- Hoggets                        2        2        2       2        1         1
- Lambs                          8        8       11      12       12        12
Sales
- Cull Ewes                     20       20       28       28      32        32
- Lambs                         50       38       56      78      102       102
- Rams                          -        -        -         1       1         1
Purchases
- Ewes                          -        40               -        -         -
- Rams                          -         1       -        1        1         1
/1   Rams + ewes + hoggets, for the purpose of costs calculations in table 5-2



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                            Appendix 5
Table   2
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 5: Sheep Breeding
Income & Expenditure Statement
Revenue                    Without                 Year
Project     1          2         3        4-15
----------------------Din----------------------
Lambs /1                   29,000    22,o4o    32,480    45,240    59,160
Ewes t2                    13,600    13,600    19,040    19,040    21,760
Rams /3                      -          -         -           850       850
Milk / 4                   28,000    28,000    39,200    39,760    51,200
Wool /5                     4,280      4,280     6,ooo      6,ogo     6,850
Total                      7,880    67,920    96,720   109,480    139,820
Operating Expense
Feed /6                     7,680     7,680    23,460    25,460    26,940
Veterinary Services/7       2,560     2,560      5,430     5,910      6,o60
Milk Transport l8           2,450     2,450      3,430     3,980      5,040
Fertilizers /9               -         -         6,200     6,200      6,200
Replacement of Rams          -         -          -        2,000      2,000
Miscellaneous /10           1,28o     1,28o      3620      3,9440     4,o4o
Total                  13,970    13,970    42,140    47,490    50,280
1/   Average price of lambs:  580 Din based on 80% slaughter of spring lambs of 18 kg lw
at 30 Din/kg and 20% of fall lambs (yearlings) of 30 kg lw at 24 Din/kg
2/   Culled ewes:  40 kg at 17 Din/kg lw
3/   Culled rams:  50 kg at 17 Din/kg lw
4/   Milk:  8 Din/liter.  35 liters per ewe in years 0 to 3, 40 liters per ewe from
year 4 onwards
5/   Wool:  fleece weight of 1.5 kg per adult sheep (28 Din/kg)
6/   Concentrate feed:  50 kg at Din 2 per sheep unit and 15 kg at Din 3 per lamb;
30 kg per sheep unit in Year 0 and 1
7/   30 Din per sheep unit, 20 Din in Year 0 and 1
8/   0.7 Din/liter
91 800 kg at 2.0 Din per ha of meadow and 300 kg at 2.5 Din per ha of pasture
10/   20 Din per sheep unit (10 Din in Year 0 and 1).  Includes interest on credit in
kind for feed and fertilizer



ANNEX 4
Appendix 5
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 5: Sheep Breeding
On-farm Investments
No. of                                 Foreign                 % Foreign
Investment Items      Units    Cost per Unit    Local       Exchange       Total     Exchange
----------------------Din------------------------------
Winter Barn /1         73            300         18,610        3,290      21,900         15
Purchase of Stock
Ewes                40            900         18,000      18,000      36,000         50
Rams                 1          2,000          1,000        1,000      2,000         50
Pasture Improvement
Meadow               2          4,000          7,200          800      8,000         10
Pasture              4          2,000          7,200          800      8,000         10
527050      23,890      75,900
Physical
Contingencies 5%                                  2,600        1,200      3,800         32
Total                                            54,610       25,090     79,700         32
1/ Capacity expanded from 128 to 201 sheep units (see Table 1)



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL SHEEP BREEDING DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)        (02)        (03)        (04)        (05)        (06)        (07)        (08)        (09)
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                            67,920      96,720    109,480    139,820    139,820    139,820    139,820    139,820    139,820
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                   63,760           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)             15,940           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
SUBTOTAL                           147,620      96,720    109,480    139,820    139,820    139,820    139,820    139,020    139,820
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS                     13,970      42,140      47,490      50,280      50,280      50,280      50,280      50,280      50,280
INVESTMENT                          79,700           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 3)                0           0           0       3,583       3,977       4,415       4,901       5,440           0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 4)               0           0           0       7,352       7,793       8,261       8,756       9,282           0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS .11%           1,227       2,455       2,455       2,455       2,061      1,623        1,137         598           0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%            1,243       2,487       2,487       2,487      2,046        1,578       1,082         557           0
SUBTOTAL                            96,140      47,082      52,432      66,157      66,157      66,157      66,156      66,157      50,280
CASH FLOW                           51,480      49,638      57,048      73,663      73,663      73,663      73,664      73,663      89,540
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN           (86,660)    (6,330)       1,080      28,630      28,630      28,630      28,630      28,630      28,630
1) 80% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
2) 20% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
3) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
4) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
Financial Rate of Return:  = 19%
Sensitivity:  Investments  +10% = 18%
Operating Costs +10% = 14%
Revenues       -10+ =  6%
cx
tn



ANNEX 4
Appendix 6
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Component
Farm Model 6: Lamb Fattening
1.        Lamb fattening would be developed by the Project in three republics:
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia. Various schemes have been pres-
ented to the mission, including simple complementary feeding or more intensive
use of concentrate feed, and involving one, two or three cycles per year.
There are also proposals to group a few farmers together to save on buildings
and labor and increase the return.
2.        The model presented here describes only one of the possible types of
lamb fattening, to show how this production can be profitable. It describes
the case of a farmer having a breeding flock of 100 ewes and undertaking lamb
fattening operation simultaneously. The investment would include construc-
tion of a new barn to be used for lamb fattening in spring, summer and autumn
(2 cycles per year) and for the ewes in winter, provision of miscellaneous
machinery for hay making and transport, feed mixing equipment and in some
cases construction of a silo for feed storage. Investment costs are given
in Appendix 6, Table 1. The number of farmers financed would be about 350
in Bosnia-Herzegovina, 200 in Montenegro and 150 in Serbia.
3.        The pre-Project situation is the one described for the Year 0 in the
Farm Model 5 (Sheep Breeding).  Fattening would be introduced in two cycles:
1st Cycle:  2 month fattening of 150 lambs born in February and
sold in May at 25 kg liveweight. Fifty lambs come from the
farmers flock and 100 lambs are bought at 15 kg.
2nd Cycle:  2 month fattening of 100 yearlings bought at 25 kg
liveweight and sold at 35 kg and of 20 culled ewes from the
farmer's flock, sold at 45 kg. Short term credit to buy animals
and feed would be provided by kombinats or "Zadrugas" (cooperatives)
having contract with the farmers. These kombinats would supply
concentrate feed and buy the finished animals.
4.        Financial analysis of the model is in Appendix 6, Table 3.  It in-
dicates a good return under prevailing cost and benefit conditions. As for
calf and pig fattening, the investment is sensitive to the price of meat.
In view, however, of the high demand for lamb in the domestic market, the
price of lamb is likely to remain high and maintain durably the prevailing
cost benefit relationship.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 6
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 6: Lamb Fattening
On-farm Investments
Foreign              % Foreign
Investment Items    No. of Units    Cost per Unit    Local    Exchange    Total    Exchange
_----- Din--------- -----
Sheep Barn (new)-/        1             60,000        51,000      9,000      60,000        15
Tractor     2/            1/4          160,000        26,000    14,000       40,000        35
77,000-   23,000    100,000
Physical
Contingencies 5%                                       3,850      1,150       5,000        23
Total                                            80,850    24,150    105,000         23
1/  75 m2 x 800 Din/m2
2/ Tractor (35 hp) with trailer and attachment (such as mower, swather turner, baler,
chopper, trailer) to be shared by 4 farmers (see comments in Annex 4, para 5)



APPRAISAL OF                            ANNEX 4
Appendaix 6
A SECONiD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                Table  2
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 6: Lamb Fattening
Investments, Operating Costs and Revenues
Revenue                                                    lst cycle            2nd cycle
----------Din---------------
Milk and Wool                                                32,280             32,253
Lambs: 150 x 25 kg x 28 Din/kg                               29,000            105,000
Yearlings: 100 x 35 kg x 24 Din/kg                           84,ooo             84,000
Ewes: 20 x 45 kg x 17 Din/kg                                 15,300             15,300
Total           74,880            236,580
Operating Expense
Purchase of Animals:
100 lambs x 15 kg x 30 Din/kg                                 -45,000
100 yearlings x 25 kg x 24 Din/kg                             -                60,000
Feed (concentrate)
30 kg per sheep unit at 2 Din/kg                             7,680               -
18 kg per lamb, 22 kg per yearling                                             22,590
and 12 kg per culled ewe, at 2.9 Din/kg                      -
Veterinary services: 20 Din per sheep unit
and 10 Din per fattened animal                               2,560              5,360
Operation and maintenance of machinery
(20% of investment value)                                     -                 8,ooo
Transport of milk 0.7 Din/liter                               2,450              3,450
Insurance of purchased animals (7 Din/head)                    -                 1,4oo
Miscellaneous expenses: 10 Din per sheep unit
and 5 Din per fattened animal              s                 1,280              2,680
Interest (12% per year, on the cost of feed
and animals for 2 months)                                                       2,550
13,970            150,030
Pre-Project situation is same as in Model 5 (see Annex 4 Appendix 5, table 2-2)



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL LAMB FATTENING
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)       (02)       (03)      (04)       (05)      (06)       (07)       (08)      (09)       (10)
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                          74,880   236,580   236,580   236,580   236,580   236,580   236,580   236,580   236,580   236,580
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                 84,000          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)           21,000          0         0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0
SHORT TERM LOAN                        0   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000
SUBTOTAL                         179,880   3419580   341,580   341,580   341,580   341,580   341,580   341,580   341,580   341,580
CASH OUTFLOW
OPERATING COSTS 3)                13,970   150,030   150,030   150,030   150,030   150,030   150,030   150,030   150,030   150,030
INVESTMENT                       105,000          0         0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAYMENT              0   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 4)              0      4,544     5,044      5,598     6,214          0          0          0         0          0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 5)             0    14,310    15,168    16,079    17,043            0          0          0         0          0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11X             0      2,354     1,854      1,299       684          0          0          0         0          0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDSY6%              0      3,756     2,897      1,987     1,023          0          0          0         0          0
__ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  -- - - - - -
SUBTOTAL                         118,970   279,994   279,993   279,993   279,994   255,030   255,030   255,030   255,030   255,030
CASH FLOW                         60,910    61,586    61,587    61,587    61,586    86,550    86,550    86,550    86,550    66,550
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN        (105,000)   25,640    25,640    25,640    25,640    25,640    25,640    25,640    25,640    25,640
1) 80X OF INVESTMENT COSTS
2) 20% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
3) INCLUDING INTEREST ON SHORT TERM LOAN
4) 28% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
5) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
SHORT TERM LOAN FOR PURCHASE OF ANIMALS ONLY,
OTHER SHORT TERM LOANS ARE IN KIND
Financial Rate of Return: = 23%                                                  lb
Sensitivity: Investments       +10% = 21%
Operating Costs    +10% = 19x
Price of Lean Animals +10% = 12%                                       x
Price of Fat Animals - 5% = 12%
Price of Fat Animals -10%  = Negative
Price of Fat and Lean
Animals           -1l% = 8%



ANNEX 4
Appendix 7
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Component
Farm Model 6: Individual Farmer Sector Broiler Production
1.        The scheme would apply to about 1,000 farms in Kosovo as part of
a full programa including a slaughterhouse and a farm with hatchery in the
social sector (Annex 5). The suggested capactiy is 750 broilers per batch,
or 3,000 broilers per year (4 cycles per year). Housing will be of the deep
litter type with adequate provision for ventilation and heating.
2.        Farmers would keep the broilers for about nine weeks until they
reach about 1.5 kg liveweight. Counting for the clean-out between each batch,
it is estimated that an annual output of four batches would be developed. The
stocking density estimated at 10 broilers per m2, could be increased to 12,
and the number of batches to 4.5 or even more with an effective management,
thus increasing further the return per building. The kombinat would provide
on credit the day old chicks together with the suitable types of mixed feed
(starter - finisher). The kombinat would in return purchase the broilers at
an agreed date for processing in Project financed facilities.
3.        Financial analysis of the investment shown in Appendix 7, Table 2
indicates a good return on investment at prevailing prices (28%).



ANNEX 4
Appendix 7
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model 7: Private Sector Broiler Production
Income & Expenditure Statement, Investments    Without
Revenue                                                          Project
--Din--
One batch:  750 x 1.5 kg x 21 Din/kg lw                           23,625
Operating ExpenseV (one batch)
Stock purchase, 775 1/ day-old chicks at Din 4                     3,100
Feed Cost:  750 x 4.3 kg/broiler  1/ at Din 3.9 kg  2/            12,580
Medicines and vaccines at Din 0.8 per broiler                        600
Heating (including brooding) 0.8 Din/bird                            600
Electricity and water at 0.2 Din/bird                                150
Maintenance of equipment & building 0.5 Din/bird  3/                 375
Interest on credit in kind, 12% on stock medicines and
feed, for 9 weeks                                                 345
Total                                                        17,745
Foreign            % Foreign
Investment Items   No. of Units   Cost per Unit   Local   Exchange   Total   Exchange
------ Din---______________-
Building  4/            1               68,000      57,800      10,200   68,000      15
Equipment 5/            -                 -          8,500       8,500   17,000      50
66,300     18,700   85,000
Physical
Contingencies 5%                                     3,310         940    4,250      22
Total                                          69,610     19,640   89,250       22
1/ Including 3% losses from mortalities
2/ Including transport 0.1 Din per kg of feed
3/  1% of building cost and 5% of equipment cost
4/  85m2 (including store lOm2--capacity 750 broilers; cost 85 x 800 Din/m2
(including water and electricity supply)
5/ Feeders, waterer, gas brooders



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
FARM MODEL PRIVATE SECTOR BROILER PRODUCTION
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(DIN)
YEAR
(01)       (02)      (03)      (04)     (05)      (06)       (07)      (08)      (09)      (10)      (11)
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                            23,625   94,500   94,500   94,500   94P500   94,500   94*500   94,500   94,500   94,500   94,500
LONG TERM LOAN 1)                   71,400         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
FARMERS CONTRIBUTION 2)             17,850         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
SUBTOTAL                           112,875   94,500   94,500   94,500   94,500   94,500   94,500   94,500   94,500   94,500   94,500
CASH OUTFLOW
____ -------
OFERATING COSTS                     17,745   70,980   70,980   70,980   70,980   70,980   70,980   70,980   70,980   70,980   70,980
INVESTMENT                         89,250          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
DEBT SERVICE
FRINCIPAL IBRD FUNDS 3)                0    1,764    1,958    2,174    2,413    2,678    2,973    3,300    3,663    4,066                   0
PRINCIPAL LOCAL FUNDS 4)               0    4P039    4,281    4,538    4,810    5,099    5,405    5,729    6,073    6,437                  0
INTEREST IBRD FUNDS ,11%          2,059    2,749    2,554    2,339    2,100    1,835    1,540    1,213               850       447         0
INTEREST LOCAL FUNDS,6%           2,089    2,785    2,542    2,285    2,013    1,725    1,419    1,094               751       386          0
SUBTOTAL                           111I,43   82,317   82,315   82,316   82,316   82,317   82,317   82,316   82,317   82,316   70,980
CASH FLOW                            1,732   12,183   12,185   12,184   12,184   12,183   12,183   12,184   12,183   12,184   23,520
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN           (83,370)  23,520   23,520   23Y520   23,520   23,520   23,520   23,520   23,520   23,520   23,520
1) 80% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
2) 20% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
3) 28X OF INVESTMENT COSTS
4) 52% OF INVESTMENT COSTS
OPERATING COSTS IN FIRST YEAR FOR ONE BATCH ONLY
Financial Rate of Return:  = 28%
Sensitivity   Investments    +10%  =  25%
Operating Costs +10%  = -18%
Revenues       -10%  =  14%                                               M



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agroindustries
Agroindustrial Development in Yugoslavia
1.        In general agroindustrial development in Yugoslavia is lagging.
The processing industry has not kept pace with the increase in agricultural
production and therefore cannot provide the variety and quantity of processed
products that the growing affluence of the population can now afford and
demand. Ultimately, it does not exploit fully the potential of the export
markets to the West European countries particularly the German Federal Republic.
In broad terms the existing processing industry is to a large extent insuffi-
cient, limited in product spectrum, and to some extent obsolescent.
2.        The Federal Government and the government of each Republic or Prov-
ince are aware of this problem and in collaboration with the agroindustrial
kombinats have formulated plans for important expansions and modernizations of
the agroindustrial sector. In accordance with investments underway and planned
for increasing agricultural production and to maintain an adequate correlation
between production and processing capacity, the Government has placed priority
on developing the processing industry for milk, for meat, and for fruits and
vegetables.
Milk Processing
3.        Background.  The emphasis on milk production is clearly reflected in
the following statistics on the total production of milk in Yugoslavia, includ-
ing cow and sheep production.
Milk Production (Lts. Million)
1960                       2434
1965                       2400
1970                       2655
1971                       2650
1972                       2879
1973                       3159
1974                       3531
1975                       3688
The marked increase in milk production is mainly due to the introduction of
high yielding dairy breeds: Simmenthal in the North and Holstein in the South,
mostly for dairy farms in the social sector. In fact the social sector accounts
for over 30% of the milk production in the country. Yugoslavia is still a net
importer of fresh milk which is acquired mostly from Bulgaria; in 1970 the
demand for milk and milk products was equivalent to 75 lts. per capita annually,



ANNEX 5
Page 2
however, this is expected to increase to 130 lts. in 1980. The largest poten-
tial for increased production lies in the individual farmer sector, however,
the main constraints are the low yielding cows (Busha breed) that predominates
in this sector, producing only about 1,000/1,200 lts per lactation and the lack
of organized milk collection from the numerous small farmers. In 1972, only
about 15% of the milk produced went to industrial processing. Milk prices
to the producer avterage about Din. 3.40/lt of cow's milk with about 3.6% of
butter-fat. This includes a premium of about Din 0.5/liter paid both by the
Federal and the Government of each Republic. The price is comparatively high
by world standards (US 0.19/lt) and enables the farmer to purchase feed and
concentrate which is available at about Din. 2.40/kg. Artificial insemination
is also generally available to the private farmers through the extension
services of the Ministry of Agriculture.
4.        Project Features.  Within the described framework and Government's
policy of placing all agroindustries in the social sector the approach to in-
creased milk collection from the individual farmers has been through the es-
tablishment of village milk collection centers owned and maintained by the
kombinats. The centers comprise essentially a milk chilling tank with mechani-
cal refrigeration placed in a room in the house of a producer who, for a fee
from the kombinat, has agreed to provide the space, operate the unit and record
the milk deliveries from the contributing producers. To place the centers
within reasonable reach of milk producers, there would be at least one center
in each village. The chilling tank would have a capacity of about 500 liters
considering the small surplus offered for sale by each farmer. Milk tank-trucks
would collect the milk daily for delivering to the kombinat processing plants.
5.        In addition to milk collection facilities and milk tank trucks the
project would finance a corresponding expansion of some of the existing dairy
processing plants, including modernization, and provision of equipment for pro-
duction of a greater spectrum of dairy products.
6.        In summary the following subprojects related to Milk Processing would
be financed:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Approximate or
Units            Equivalent Capacity
Milk Collecting Stations
Croatia                                   1,022                   500 lts/ea
Bosnia-Herzegovina                           317                  500 lts/ea
Kosovo                                        72                  500 lts/ea
Macedonia                                     32                  500 lts/ea
Total                                   1,443
Milk Tank-trucks
Croatia                                       27               10,000 lts/ea
Bosnia-Herzegovina                             7               10,000 lts/ea
Total                                      34
Expansion/Modernization of Existing
Milk Processing Plants
Croatia                                        3            1.5 million lts/yr/ea
Bosnia-Herzegovina                             5            1.5 million lts/yr/ea
Montenegro                                     3            2.0 million lts/yr/ea
Macedonia                                      2             10 million lts/yr/ea
Total                                       13
New Milk Processing Plant
Slovenia                                       1           3.5 million lts/yr
Montenegro                                     2            2.0 million lts/yr
Serbia                                         1           4.5 million lts/yr
Total                                       4
7.        In the interest of effecting economies of scale, kombinats within
the same Republic, coordinate their investments in a manner that will lead
each kombinat to specialize in one particular form of processing. With this
approach one kombinat would devote exclusively its milk processing activities
to cheese making while another kombinat, in the same Republic, would confine
itself to production of fluid pasturized milk and so on. This policy would
reduce the flexibility of each plant to adapt to seasonal variations in supply
and, equally important, would eliminate competition. The mission advised
strongly against the adoption of this policy. Although milk prices are con-
trolled in Yugoslavia, milk processing is an economically viable activity and
financing of milk processing related projects appear justified as suggested
by the bypothetical model described on tables 3, 4 and 5, showing a financial
rate of return of 16%.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Meat Processing
8.        Background.  Yugoslavia's cattle population declined in the late
sixties. However, since 1971 there has been a gradual recovery in this sector
which is over 90% in private hands.
Cattle (Head '000)
Total           Total           %
Population    Slaughtered    Offtake
1960                         5709             --           --
1965
1970
1971                         5138             1954         38%
1972                         5148            1718          33%
1973                         5366            1886          35%
1974                         5681            2155          38%
1975                         5872            2490          42%
9.        The high-offtake results from the fact that nearly 50% of the stock
slaughtered are males up to six months of age. Close to 40% of the cattle are
Simmenthal breed, the balance, a mixture of indigenous breeds with predominance
of the Bosnian Busha type. Yugoslavia shows a trend toward increasing the pro-
portion of dairy cattle (dual purpose) at the expense of strictly beef cattle,
however, lack of fooder has been the main constraint to livestock growth in
general. Funds being channelled into irrigation and the individual farmer sec-
tor are expected to result in increased production of fodder and agricultural
by-products for breeding dairy cows and fattening males. The financial incen-
tives for this are expected to come from increased demand of milk, dairy
products, and also meat and processed meat products (Annex 1, para 49-63).
10.       The meat processing industry which is centered mostly in Serbia
with about 50% of Yugoslavia's total capacity and in Croatia with about 25%,
developed during the late sixties when exports of fresh meats, mostly to the
U.K. reached close to 25% of the total production. Exports of fresh meats have
since declined and the main markets are currently Italy, Greece, Switzerland
and Sweden. Yugoslavia is also an important exporter of live cattle, however,
exports, mostly to Italy, Greece, Lybia and Tunisia have also dropped during
the recent years. The processing industry now mostly composed of plants built
to standards of 10-15 years ago faces need for expansion and modernization to
meet export standards as well as the increased domestic demand.
11.       Project Features.  In view of the scope of the renovation program of
the Serbian and Croatian meat plants, government has decided to cover that
program separately, consequently the Project would only focus on the meat pro-
cessing industry in the Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro as
shown below:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Approximate or
Units     Equivalent Capacity
Expansion/Modernization of Existing
Meat Processing Plants
Bosnia-Herzegovina                                3         500 tons/yr/ea
Montenegro                                        3         400 tons/yr
Expansion/Modernization of Existing
Meat By-product Processing Plant
Bosnia-Herzegovina                                1         500 tons/yr
12.       Domestic meat prices are controlled, however, not so the prices of
processed meats. Processing plants selling both fresh and processed meats are
financially viable operations as suggested by the hypothetical model described
on Tables 15, 16 and 17. The financial rate of return is shown as 19%.
13.       To meet the projected demand for poultry meat, the Project would also
finance a broiler producing and slaughtering complex of 2.5 million birds a
year for the Republic of Kosovo. The facility would include parent stock and
its own production of chicks, 1.5 million day-old chicks would be sold to the
individual farmer sector (about 1,000 farmers) and one million would be reared
in the complex. The slaughtering plant would have a capacity of 2.5 million
birds yearly including thus the 1.5 million finished broilers that would be
bought back from the individual farmers. Details of the Project are shown
on Tables 12, 13 and 14. This subproject appears economically viable. Its
estimated financial rate of return would be 20.0%.
Fruits and Vegetables
14.       Background.  This sector has also registered important gains in
most crops during the last decade, reflected by the following statistics:
Vegetables
Beans      Peas      Onions      Peppers     Tomatoes
------------------tons '000--- -______________
1966              216        13         252         237          333
1971              173        18         306         294          355
1972              154        15         294         320          368
1973              197        18         332         333          412
1974              178        19         354         345         415
1975              166        12         268         307         355



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Fruits
Apples     Pears      Plums      Sour Cherries      Peaches
---------------------tons '000---------------------------
1966            214         84         68              3              47
1971             327       112         72              4              62
1972            309         91         72              4              68
1973            448        141         72              5              68
1974            370         93         73              5              69
1975             370       140         73              5              63
15.       The objectives of the processing industry in this sector is not only
to cope with the increased production but to maximize the utilization of the
fresh produce by cold storage, grading, processing and reducing spoilage.
Yugoslavia is notoriously short of cold store facilities in the fruit growing
regions in Serbia. Facilities are not sufficient for adequately grading apples
and pears and thereby allow a legitimate premium on the high quality fruit and
a correspondingly lower price on the grades destined to processing. In general
the prices commanded by the Yugoslavian processed fruits and vegetables in the
export markets of Western Europe are lower than the domestic prices and in some
cases by as much as 20%. To promote exports the Federal Governments offers a
premium payment to the processors. In the case of pickled peppers and other
vegetables the premium amounts to 17% on the selling price.
16.       With adequate grading facilities fruits and vegetables can be placed
in their proper price ranges and processing can become more competitive in the
export market. Western Europen countries and particularly the German Federal
Republic are large importers of brine-pickled vegetables, frozen vegetables,
processed tomato, dehydrated vegetables and apple and pear juices. The
statistics below show present and projected demand of these products by the
Western European countries.
17.       Prccessed vegetables.  In spite of strong competition from frozen
and dehydrated products, the consumption of canned and bottled vegetables
has tended to increase and is expected to grow in the foreseeable future.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Canned Vegetables
Importing Countries
1980
1970    1972    1975    (estimated)
-------------tons '000 ------------
German Federal Republic                 412     520      737         917
U.K.                                    212     240      260         300
France                                   75      87       -           -
Holland                                  60      78       82          97
Belgium                                  44      71       -           -
Switzerland                              39      44       52          63
Sweden                                   21      25       29          38
Austria                                   4        6       9          13
Source:  Marketing Study of Agricultural Products, loc. cit.
In 1972, processed tomato represented 34% of all imports followed by beans:
15% and peas: 10%, vinegar-pickled vegetables in cans and jars represented
8.5% or a total 91,000 tons.
18.       West European imports of brine-pickled vegetables have also grown
from 15,900 tons in 1960 to 33,000 tons in 1972 and are expected to continue
such a trend. The main importing countries are listed below:
Brine-Pickled Vegetables
Importing Countries
1980
1970     1972      1975   (estimated)
------------tons '000-------------
U.K.                                   13.0     12.4      13.5       14.5
German F.R.                             7.5      9.0      10.5       13.0
France                                 4.5       6.4       5.5        7.0
Switzerland                            2.9       2.6       3.0       3.0
Belgium                                 1.4      2.4       2.5        3.0
Austria                                0.2       0.4       0.5        0.8
Sweden                                 0.5       0.3       0.5       0.5
Source:  Marketing Study of Agricultural Products, loc. cit.
Pickled vegetables are mostly cucumbers and onions but include also other
vegetables.
19.       Frozen vegetables.  Trade in frozen vegetables in Yugoslavia is
limited by inadequate storage and transport facilities. Shop storage in



ANNEX 5
Page 8
particular is lacking, and retail sales are almost entirely restricted to
self-service food stores. Frozen vegetable consumption is therefore very
low in Yugoslavia, it is estimated at between 1,000 and 2,000 tons/year. How-
ever by 1980 this could well reach about 5,000 tons/year.  Exports markets
offer great potential however.
Frozen Vegetables
Importing Countries
1970     1972      1975     1980
------------tons '000----____
German F.R.                          23.4     32.3        45       70
U.K.                                 41.1     32.7        45       60
France                                4.4      8.0        12       15
Belgium                               6.6      6.7         8       12
Holland                               7.5      9.0        12       18
Italy                                 6.9      7.5        90       12
Sweden                                5.6      5.1        75       11
Source: Marketing Study of Agricultural Products, loc. cit.
The European trade in frozen vegetables has been increasing at a fast rate.
Total annual imports doubled between 1965 to 1970. Most of the industrial
nations in Western Europe are expected to offer market potential for exports
of Yugoslavian frozen vegetables. The frozen vegetables consumed in Western
Europe are mostly peas, spinach, beans, brussel sprouts, however other types
such as carrots, leeks, peppers, sweetcorn, mushroom and asparagus are be-
coming increasingly popular, particularly in the German Federal Republic.
20.       Although there is strong competition for the market of tomato con-
centrate, the demand by the main importing countries is expected to increase
substantially as shown in the following table, which would assure a market
for Yugoslavia's production of tomato concentrate:
Importing Countries of Processed Tomato
1980
1970     1972     1975      (estimated)
 -----------  tons '000------------
German F.R.                      51        70      110          170
U.K.                            159       184      200          230
Holland                          11        15       17           30
Switzerland                      24        28       33           40
Sweden                            6         8       11           14
Source: Marketing Study of Agricultural Products, loc. cit.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
21.       In the last few years there has been a growing demand for dehy-
drated vegetables, mainly from the institutional trade and the soup and ready-
made-meal industries. Following are the past and projected demand of dehy-
drated vegetables of the main importing nations:
Importing Countries of Dehydrated Vegetables (Tons '000)
1970     1972      1975      1980
-------    tons '000---------
German F.R.                         13        12        14        17
U.K.                                 8         6        15        16
Holland                              6.7       5.8       6.4       7.5
France                               1.8       1.9       2.2      2.4
Switzerland                          2.4       2.8       2.6      2.9
Belgium                              0.4       2.9       1.5       2.5
Sweden                               1.1       0.9       1.0      1.2
Austria                              1.1       0.9       1.2       1.4
Source: Marketing Study of Agricultural Products, loc. cit.
In 1972, the main product was dehydrated onion which accounted for 40% of all
imports.
22.       Processed fruits.  The total production of apples is predicted to
reach 450,000 tons in 1980. Exports of fresh apples have been insignificant
reaching only 9,500 tons in 1972, however the market for processed apples
and pear juice is good, with the German Federal Republic appearing as the
main potential importer. Relevant statistics are as follow:
German Federal Republic
Total Imports of Concentrated Apple and Pear Juice (Tons)
1970            8,600
1971           11,300
1972           14,100
Total Imports of Unconcentrated Apple and Pear Juice (Tons)
1970           14,500
1971           16,500
1971           17,600
Source: Jabolko Agro-industrial kombinat.
23.       Project Features.  In view of the foregoing the project would finance
the following subprojects related to processing of fruits and vegetables.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Approximate or
Units        Equivalent Capacity
Cold Store and Fruit and Vegetable
Grading and Packing Plant
Serbia                                      3          storage  3,500 tons/ea
grading
and
packing 6,500 tons/yr/ea
Fruit and Vegetable Grading and
Packing Plant
Vojvodina                                   1                    6,000 tons/yr
Expansion/Modernization of Existing
Fruit and Vegetable Processing Plants
Vojvodina                                   2                    6,000 tons/yr/ea
Slovenia                                    1                    2,000 tons/yr
Bosnia-Herzegovina                          4                    1,500 tons/yr/ea
Montenegro                                   1                     800 tons/yr
Kosovo                                      1                    7,500 tons/yr
9
The cold stores and complementary grading and packing plants proposed for
Serbia are described in detail on Tables 9, 10 and 11. They are considered
economically viable with a financial rate of return of 27%. A hypothetical
model of a representative fruit and vegetable processing plant is described
on Tables 6, 7 and 8. The model shows a financial rate of return of 14% and
serves to support recommended financing in these type of plants.
24.       Although strictly not a fruit processing plant, the Project would
also support the construction of a winery for the Republic of Macedonia. The
capacity would be for crushing 600 tons of wine grapes a day and holding up
to 10 million liters of wine. The winery would, probably be owned by the
Agroindustrial Kombinat OVCE POLE in Sveti Nikole, it would not have facili-
ties for stabilizing and bottling wine nor for processing of marc and lees
which is already provided by plants under construction under the Bank's First
Agroindustries Project for Macedonia (Loan 894). The winery model is de-
scribed in detail on Tables 18, 19 and 20. The winery would serve to process
the increased production of wine grapes in Macedonia and also replace several
small obsolete and unhygienic wine fermenting facilities in the individual
sector. The sub-project is economically viable showing a financial rate
of return of 29.0%.
Grain Driers
25.       The Project would finance about 7 grain drying facilities for the
Republic of Vojvodina. The units should be direct fired by gas or indirect
fired with light grade fuel oil however, not with the intermediate production



ANNEX 5
Page 11
of steam for heating the air which would be uneconomical. The capacity of
each unit would be about 30 tons per hour assuming a moisture reduction in the
grain from up to 40% down to 14%. Table 2 shows investment details pertaining
to this subproject.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agro-industries
Investment Summary
Net
w/o Contingency      Working       Physical           Price                            Foreign                        Foreign
Category                        and Working Capital   Capital    Contingencies   Contingencies   Total          Local    Exchange   Total    Local    Exchange
-------------------------------- Din. Millions ---------------------------------------- ------ US$ Millions -------
-  Milk processing plants including milk         396                  11             20              84           511        277      234        28.4       15.4       13.0
collecting stations and milk tank-trucks
-  Fruits and vegetable processing plants        227                 24              11              52           314        188      126        17.4       10.4        7.0
- Cold stores and grading and packing            154                 18               8              38           218        120       98        12.1        6.7        5.4
lines for fruit and vegetables
-  Integrated broiler production and              75                  4               4              17           100         55       45         5.6        3.1        2.5
processing plant
-  Meat and Meat by-product processing plant    57                     6               3             13            79         47        32        4.4        2.6        1.8
- Winery                                          74                  14              4               21          113         73        40        6.3        4.1        2.2
- Grain driers                                    56                  -               3              11            70         49        21        3.9        2.7        1.2
Total                                       10                    77              5        3     236         17,45        809       596       78.1   .   45.0       33.1
- ul



OfPRAI00L OF
A 020000  A8CRIOTUtAL. 000D17 PROJEC
S-r of Proletod Ilne.nr
No. of                or I~~~~~quip-c                     ltuoOdtoo           ad            Iwor           Ph4otc-l       8001..           I/0                            T-c.Icl        ban.
haSMoooasLhsk~~~a             t.blntolt   22080130    C.-5it,C   QIflLflkt   L-ultoIi  .&at   -bA&Kic2U11mhv  .Sm11L_ ftih, IItL  cehhnajw   fl L    ,-..
2~~Y~~6occt.oriNc of    ~ ~ ~  ~                 N.D       sooo   rnayrso                4.8           42.9             4.8            2.9             2.8           -               08.2           11.6&           68.6            so
7ra18/vp.gol. p00080In PIante                   2                WIc*  Io ,0000/y/s                   14.4            50.3             7, 2           6.1            4.3             8.9            88.2           18.6           087.6           4
PnIt~/tape.bl. COrotao 6L P-k..0O    plat          I         soS. CrO          ,00sto/r             ,....D..                       ..t.          I.....St.    ,.....S.                -          ...2.J   I
5816 Ool-imttal8821c-                         I,0m                              SW~l,a 0  Ito.  ao89                     19.3            8. 9          03.2             00-                          110.0            22.           15.8m
alik Tank Tack.                                  D79..                      so,oo  too. a..9                                                             49             00.30.3                                        8.             M688
Mtlk P-o...to   Pl-t                            3                E.       1.0 .1110c  it.. a            S             11.6             1.0      .....6...        ......                .
Wilk Prao.1     (tOe.-) ?oot                       I         Iooora         4.5 .118cc 2o1     r .10.,.2                                                 29202.                                         815.-484
Cold fto.- &P-It/vq.takl.                                    woo, Sn.r
222129  Fekto  Plan.-                            3      7 tra-aro         3,250/6,500 .o.. -. .        04.7           39.2            11.0           17.5             71-    .........f.           169.5      .......LI..   ....I.d..                 i
8uk-t9801                                                                     ~~~~      ~     ~~~~     ~     ~~~~      ~     ~~~~      ~     ~~~~           ~~~~62.4  76.7  23.2  29.4  8.4  021.5  20.6  42.4  000.9      44
I9tff8kaPa.a.tng Plat.                  1         M.0i0mb        2,00    0/yr.                 4.3            07.1            2.1             2.8             1.3            2.6            29.2            0.7            34.9           60
talk Pr--aat   Plat                                1         N.0.            3,05.1110c  10/y.           ...Lt     ".....Ii.       1...LL.    ...,.f,j,                  1.0             III,,,j,,,    21,,,.,,,4fl,J,,                * fl
On-total                                                                       ~~~~          ~~~~       ~     ~~~~           ~~~~            ~~~~            ~~~~          ~~~~9.3  0.7d  3.7  3.3  2.3  3.7  33.0  08.1  60.0  AD
.a.s-r.vhlOPn sOulo
talk Coloa1og Stolc-                             317           -J.ci            SWo50  Ito. .              2.7           24.8             2.7            4.1             1.7            -36.0                           7.0            43.0           M8
talk Yak Teak.                                     7          M I            30,00  Ic.. .:               -6.1                           -               1.3             0.4            -7.8                            1.5             9.3           80
~a*a2cc/8k4cc 2aA   of                                      7 o.Io
talk Pra...n  ?Iat I2                                                      1.5.1110ccIt.yfo             9.3            21.3             3.0            2.7             1.8             1.9           40.0             8.0           45.0            60
Za a/o...tt. of                                   8587. Uk,Na
NthaotgPlat                             3         sortOn             5SWa/y/o                   4.9           19.6             2.5            0.1             1.5             3.1           33.7             4.7            40.4           'A
8.t/Iodottattc   fW.,a
8yftNda8   rooa..t04Plan                   1          0..D.             50   00/r                  1.5            5.9            0.8             0.7             0.5            0.5             9.9             2.0            00.8           48
Pr.dt/tq,.tbla  frcc..Oo  Flat.                  4         MTW (20... 100oolr..                         07             4.                .       ......d.. .......iL            .......L..           73.             143j0,,
SubT-t1a                                                                                                  29.1          120.4            14.3            10.5             9.1           12.0           28.              38.6          Et                3
Kom-
talk Ool11 to "n     0ti-.                        72         Prlattita          000 be-  c.                0.5             5.3            0.5             0.7             0.2           .                7.2             1.4            3.6            SD
talk1 Tauk bok.                                    3         9.0D.           00,000 1-.  c..                               .0            -                0.0             0.2           -                3.8             0.7            6,5            GO
leotlor xot"-rta   Prod-ttc                                                  2.5 24112cc
Sloo4t-orto  p1.0                                I         PrOstOta          b0021.2./yr               24.2            38.6             6.3            fi.4            3.7             3.5            82.7            17.7          180.6            45
tapa.IaNodarrooacicc   f
Frolt/9.g,.bl.  Prca             -,gPlr          I         PrOara           7,50000D    /r               8.0           32.1             3.9             3.3            2.3             4.9            04.1            10.9           60.4            40
tak Pc-.c.Oo    N.ttt                                        .D.             N...                         6.            30.1             2.2             2.0     I.....jJ...             1.4        ...j          ...,l, 1-JjJj34.                    40
9.bth-otl                                                                                                 39.0            94.0           12.9            13.0             7.7             9.8          077.3            36.0           283.8           43
mtal  tollrt1     I'ltta                          3 2         5280                                         0.3             2.6             0.0            0.4             0.2            -                3.7             0.7            A4.            50
talk P-cn.    fla.-                              2         8.0.           10 .0111c  1ta/yr.             8.9           22.3             3.0             2.6             1.7             2.0           48.5             7.0           60 .0           60
8th-tota                                                                                                  27.0            67.8             9.1            9.8             5.0            16.5           136o628                        165.8            5
Proo..6ts Flat                                   I         Ttt-grd           2 0111l     otyr            2.1             5.4            0.0             0.7             0.4             0.6            10.0            2.0            02.0            60
talkPraaat  Plat                                   2          plealla  N.D.   2 111100 jIc/yr. II.   7.0                  16,              2.2            2.0             0.4             0.4            30.0             6.0           36.0            60
16.2 Proo..lg FlT-                               3       0Bi.l  Poljo   400 00/r
bw.ooto/Mod.cc.ootccIf                                N .0. (0)       N.D.                           3.2           02.5             1.,             1.5             0.9             2.0           21.8             4.4            26.2            60
ftrnot/tc.bal. ?-ra.tt  PIa.t                    I         Bilo  PolJ.   800 102./yr                     1.0      4...,3,j,,    ... ...I               0.0      ........QJ.            07_   ... 1.j,,                 14             87 70
fob-oTol                                                                                                  13.3            30.2             5.2            4.7             3.0             4.7            69.1            03.8           32.8            60
TOTAL.                                                                                                        21439           64614           000             95.2            51.7            75.2         1,160.2           23698        1,405.0            42
N.1D.   oti dosopotd



OAUEX S
A SECOND AClICULTIJEAL CREDIT PROJECT                                           Tabl.e 3
Mode1: MHi. Processing Plant
Investment projections
-----~------------- InvestmPent Costs ---------_________
Capacity or          Cost per Unit                                                            Foreign
Total Units               US $             Y"r 1       Year 2           Total      Local      Exchange
Plant Capacity:                                    40,000 Its/day           --
in two shifts                                                      Din '000
Investment Items
1.  Land and Site PreParation                             I Ha.                  0.5/rn2              90          __               90         90         __
2.  Civil Works                                               22                    2                 30         160              540        540
Ac'cess roads and plant yards                    1,500 m2                 20/mn30                          1050                        50-
Fencing and infrastructure                         500 m                  15/m                 140                         140         133         28
Processing bldg., cooler, cheese storage        1,000 U12                300/mr2            3,780        1,620           5,400      4,320      1, 080*
Office, lab., amenities                            400 m2                250/r2              1,260         540           1,800      1,530        270
Garage, store, aux. bldgs.                         200 r2                150/m2                380         160             540        486         54
Effluent treatment                            3m3/day/tsn milk           500/m3/day            540         540           1,080         756       324
Milk collecting stations                        80 x 20 m2                25/m2                360         360              720        720         --
Sub-total                                                                                   6,840        3,380          10,220      8,464      1,756
3. Utilities
Water wells, pumps, storage tank,                      3                      3
filters, chlorinator                        2 x 15 m /hr            1,500/m /hr             320         490              810        486        324
Power sub-station, transformers,
switchgear, controls                        2 x200 EVA                150/EVA               430         650            1,080        432        648
Package steam generator, fuel tank,
water treatment                             2 x 1,000 kg/hr        20,000/ton/hr             290         430             720        432         288
Refrigerating equipment, evaporators,
compressors and aux.                        2 x 40 tons             1,200/ton               860       1,300            2,160        432      1,728*
Service lines                                        --                   1072 -6 480                                      480        288         192*
Crating, insurance, freight                          --                    57b                  --         260              260        156        104*
Installation                                         --                   10%                   --         830             830        664        166
Sub-tCtal                                                                                    1,900       4,440           6,340      2,890      3,450
4.  Machinery and Equipment   2/
Milk collecting stations                      80 x 500 lt/ea           3,600/ea              2,590       2,590           5,180      3,108       2,072
Bulk milk receiving equipment                   20,000 lt/shift    30,000                      220         320             540        108        432
Clarifying, pasteurizing, homogenizing equip. 4,000 It/hr            70,000                    500         760           1,260         252     1,008*
Water chilling unit, C,I.P.                       4,000 It/hr        30,000                    220         320              540        108        432*
Plastic pouch filler, crates                 2 x 3,000 It/hr        120,000                    860       1,300           2,160        432      1,728*
Milk silos and tanks                            40,000 It            40,000                    290         430              720        432        288
Butter making and packing equip.                    130 kg/batch    60,000                     430         650           1,080         216        864*
Cheese vats, presses, brine tanks, shelving  10,000 It/day           50,000                    360         540             900         180        720*
Sour milk, yoghurt making, packing equip.        5,000 It/day        60,000                    430         650           1,080        216        864*
S.S. piping and fittings                             --                5'b                      __         670             670        134        536*
Misc. equip. office, lab., spares, tools             --              30,000                     --         540              540        108        432*
Crating, insurance, freigtt                          --                5%                       --         710             710         142        568*
Installation                                         --               10%                       --       1.480           1,480      1,036        444
sub-total                                                                                   5,900       10,960          16,860      6,472    10,388
5. Transportation Equipment                             I pick-up           10,000                   180          --              180         72        108
3/               3 x 10,000 It tank-trucks 50,000/ea                    --       2,700           2,700        810      1,890*
6. Engineering and Overhead
organizational expenses                              --                 1%                     330          --              330        330         --
Consultants (specs, bids, supervision)               --                4.                     670         670           1,340         938        402
Contractor's fee                                     --                 5%                     830         840           1,670      1,002         668
Sub-total                                                                                    1,830       1,510           3,340      2,270       1,070
4/
7.  Import Duties                                          --                30%                      __       3,590            3,590      3,590         --
8.  Technical and Management Services                      --                --
Total Fixed Investment w/o Contingencies                                                    16,740      26,580          43,320    24,658    18,662
9.  Physical Contingencies                                 --                 5%                     840       1,330            2,170      1,230        940
10. Working Capital                                          --       Avg. turnover: 1 in.              --      3,160            3.160      3,160         --
Total Investment w/o Price Contingency                                                      17,580      31,070          48,650    29,048    19,602
1/  This model is intended to demonstrate the economic viability of milk processing in Yugoslavia under present conditions, and thereby
support justification for financing loans for construction of Sualogous plants and/or expansion of existing milk processing plants
under the project, including loans for milk-collecting stations and milk tank-trucks. See Annex 5 Table 2 for projected loans
related to milk processing.
2/  In this hypothetical model, milk collecting tanks would be made in Yugoslavia with imported materials.
3/  On items 2, 3 and 4.
_/ Import duty on items shown with an asterisk.
5/  From Annex  5 Table 4



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA            1/
Model: Milk Processing plant
Income and Operating Cost projections
2/
Yield or Number of Units           Cost or Price                   1---- 3---4----   Years ---------------_--_0
at Full Development              per Unit   3                   1-2            3              4           5-20
Volume                                                                                                        -------------  Million Ltg ----------------
Winter  30,000 lt/day                                                             7.0          10.0           12.8
Total raw milk processed:                Summer  40,000 It/day
Work schedule                             1-2 shifts, 365 days/yr.                  --
Income
e-------------  Din Millions  --------------
Pasteurized milk sold in 1 It
plastic pouches (3.2% fat)             70% of vol.    0.99             Din  4.40/it wholesale              __           21.3          30.5           39.0
Butter sold                              80% of vol.    0.016            Din 50.- /kg wholesale              --            4.5            6.4            8.2
Sour milk, yoghurt sold in 0.5 lt    10% of vol.
plastic pouches                                         0.90           Din 10.- /lt wholesale              --            6.3            9.0          11.5
Cheese (medium, gouda type) sold         20% of vol.    0.15             Din 45.- /kg wholesale               --           9.5           13.5           17.3
Whey sold in bulk                             __          0.80           Din  0.07/It wholesale              _-            0.1            0.1            0.1
--    41.7           59.5          76.1
Total Income
operating Costs
Direct Cost
4/                  cow milk  :80%4: 3.77. fat    08/%fta    am2.                                                    734.
Raw milk puirchases:                     Sheep milk:20%: 7.7% fat  ( 0.83/1% fat                                          26.1           37.3           47.8
Skilled    :20 persons         3,000 Din/mo + 50% )                               1.5            1.8           2.0
Direct labor        :                    Unskilled :20 persons           2,400 Din/mo + 50%. 
Purchased power                          80 KWH/1,000 lt                 Din  0.80/KWH                        __           0.4            0.6            0.8
Fuel, lubricants                         80 kg F.O./1,000 lt             Din  3.0 /kg                         __            1.7           2.4            3.1
General materials                                 --                     Din  0.06/lt                         --           0.4            0.6            0.8
Packing materials                        Including 10% waste             Din  0.3 /lt                         --            2.1           3.0            3.8
Milk collection expenses                 Radius 100 Km                   Din  0.15/lt                         __            1.3            1.6            1.9
Milk product marketing expenses          Radius  50 Km                   Din  0.2 /It                         __            2.0            2.3            2.6
Taxes-------                                                                                                                                               --
sub-total                                                                                                    -             -5            49.6           62.8
Overhead Costs
Maintenance, incl. materials                   5 persons                 Din   3,200/mo + 50%                 --            0.6            0.6            0.6
Administration expenses, incl. insurance           --                    Din 100,000/mo                       __            1.0            1.1            1.2
Technical, administrative and
supervisory personnel                       10 persons                 Din   3,600/mo + 50%                 __           0.6            0.6            0.6
Management                                     2 persons                 Din   5,500/mo + 50%                 __            0.2            0.2            0.2
Sub-total                                          --                                --                       --            2.4            2.5            2.6
5/
Total Operating Cost                          57 persons                             --                       __           37.9           52.1           65.4
Net operating Surplus                              --                                --                                     3.8            7.4           10.7
1/ This model is intended to demonstrate the economic viability of milk processing in Yugoslavia under present conditions
and thereby support justification for financing construction of analogous plants and/or expansion of existing milk processing
plants under the project.  See Annex  5  Table  2  for projected loans related to milk proceSsing.
2/  Two years would be required for design, bidding and construction, operations would commence in the third year of the life of each plant.
3/  Prices based on mission's findings.
4/  Premiums of about Din.  0.40   /It. paid to producer by federal, state and municipal governments not included.
5/  Working capital, first year of operations:  Din 3.16 million assuming an average turnover of one month.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Milk Processing Plant
Cash Flow Projections
(Din. Millions)
------------------------------ ----------------------------------  Years  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1      2       3       4       5         6        7        8        9       10       11        12       13       14      15        16       17       18       19        20
--------------------Din.----------  ins ------   -   ----- -- -- --Din.-MilMillion.---------------------------------------------------- ------ --- --- --- -----
Income
Borrower's equity                         4.4     7.8      --      --      --       --        --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --      --        --       --       --       --        --
2/         (Local        8.5   15.2       --      --      --        --       --       --       --        --      --        --       --        --     --        --       --       --        --       --
Lontg term loan-3           (IBRD         4.6    8.2       --      -  ~
Short term  loan                          0.1    1.2       --      --      --       --        --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --      --       --        --       --       --        --
Total sales 4/                             --      --   41.7   59.5   76.1    76.1    76.1    76.1    76.1    76.1    76.1               76.1      76.1     76.1   76.1    76.1    76.1    76.1    76.1           76.1
Last year's cash balance                   --    0.1    0.1    2.6        5.7      5.8      5.9       2.5      1.5      0,.4     5.6     10.8      12.6    16.8   21.0    25.2    29.4    15.6            4.8       6.0
Total Cash Inflow                        17.7   32.4   41.8   62.1   81.8         81.9     82.0      78.6    77.6      76.5    81.7      86.9      88.7     92.9   97.1    101.3   105.5        91.7     80.9      82.1
Expenditures
5/                                                                                                                            1. 34.6                                                .0        -
Investments: Fixed assets                17.6   27.9       --      --      --       --      3.4        --       --       --       --      3.4        --       --      --        --      3.4     15.0        --       --
Working capital             --    3.2       --      --      --        --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --        --      --       --       --       --        --        -
Operating costs                            --      --   34.7   52.1   65.4    65.4    65.4    65.4    65.4    65.4    65.4    65.4                 65.4    65.4   65.4    65.4    65.4    65.4           65.4      65.4
Debt Service
Long term loan prinicipal (Local         --      --      --      --    4.2       4.5      4.7      5.0      5.3        --       --        --       --       --      --        --       --       __        --       __
(IBRD       --      --      --      --    2.1       2.3      2.5      2.8      3.1        --       --        --       --       --       --       --       --       --        --       __
Long term loan interest  (Local          --    0.5    1.4      1.4      1.4      1.2      0.9      0.6      0.3        --       --        --       --       --      --        --       --       --        --       --
(IBRD       --    0.5      1.4     1.4     1.4      1.2      0.9      0.7      0.3        __        --       --       __        __      __       __       __       __        __       __
Short term loan principal                --    0.1      1.2      --      --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --       --       --      --        --       --       --        --       --
Short term loan interest                 --    0.0    0.1        --      --       --       --        --       --       --       -r        --       --       --      __        __       --       __        __       __
Income tax 6/                                      --    0.0    0.1       0.3      0.3       0.4      0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5 .    0.5      0.5    0.5        0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5
Dividends distributed                      --      --      --    1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      2.0      2.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      6.0       6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0       9.0      9.0
Total Cash Outflow                       17.6   32.3   39.2   56.4   76.0           76.0    79.5     77.1    77.2      70.9     70.9      74.3     71.9     71.9   71.9       71.i989.9    86.9    79    749
Cash Balance at Year's End              0.1    0.1    2.6    5.7        5.8      5.9      2.5       1.5      0.4      5.6    10.8    12.6        16.8     21.0   25.2       29.4    15.6       4.8       6.0      7.2
Financial Rate of Return   16%
Investment Costs + 5%       : 157%
Operating  Costs + 5%           97.
Revenue            - 5%      :  77.
1/ 257. of total investment.
2/  33% Local funds at 67%  interest; 427%  IBRD funds at 11% interest; 7 years including 2 years of grace.
3/  12% of interest.
4/  From Annex 5 Table 4.
5/  From Annex 5 Table 3, project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17 - 18 and transportation equipment in years 7-12-17 including
engineering, duties and physical contingencies.
6/ 77. after interest charges and Din 3.2 million depreciation charge.
U' U



APPISALr 0                                                                    ANEX  5
A SECOND A0RICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                       Table 6
YUWSlLVIA
Fruit and Vegetable Processing Plant
Investment Prolectiofl
--------------  Investment Costs ------------t---
Cost per Unit                                                           Foreign
Capacity or Total Units                 US $                   Year 1      year 2       Total    Local    Exchange
Capacity  Fruits and vegetables:
12,000 tons/year                        --
220 days/year
----------------    Din   '000  ---------------------
lnvestment Items
1.  Land and Site Preparation                                 2 ha                           0.5/rn2                  180          --          180       180          --
2.  civil Works250m220m63                                                                                                         2790                   90
Access roads and plant yeards                        2,500  n                         20/n2                     630         270          900       900         --
Fencing and infrastructure                             600 m2                         15/m                     160           --          160       128         32
Fruit and vegetable reception hall                     300 m2                        180/r2                     680         290          970       776        194
Main processing building                             1,200 m2                       250/m2                   3,780        1,620       5,400    4,320        1,080
Finished product storage                               500 m2                       200/122                  1,260          540       1,800     1,440         360
office, lab., amenities                                400 m2                        250/m2                  1,260          540       1,800    1,440          360
Carage, store, boiler room, sum. bldgs.                300 m2                       150/m2                     570          240         810        688        122
Effluent treatment (screen, trickling                        3
filter, sedimentation)                               250 is /day                  500/m3/day               1.120       IL130        2,250     1,575         675*
sub-total                                                                                                    9,460       4,630       14,090   11,267        2,823
3. Utilities
Water wells, pumps, storage tank, filters,                    3                           3
chlorinator                                        2 x 50 m /hr                 1,500/i  /hr.              1,080       1,620        2,700       540       2,160
Power substation, transformers, switchgear,
controls                                           2 x 400 KVA                    150/XVA                    860       1,300        2,160       648       1,512
Package steam generator, fuel tank,
water treatment                                    2 X 3,000 kg/hr              20,000/ton/hr                860        1,300       2,160     1,296         864
Service lines                                             __                           107                       --         700          700       350        350
Crating, freight, insurance                               --                            5%                       --         390          390       234        156
Installation                                             __                            10%                      __          810         810        648        162
Sub-total                                                                                                    2,800        6,120       8,920     3,716       5,204
4.  Machinery and Equipment
Complete tomato concentrate processing
and filling line                                   100 tons/24 hrs                 550,000                 3,960       5,940        9,900     1,980       7,920*
Complete pickled vegetables, processing and
filling line                                      20  tons/shift                   200,000                 1,440       2,160        3,600     1,080      2,520*
Complete fruit 3iice processing and
filling line                                       20  tons/shift                  400,000                 2,880       4,320        7,200     2,160      5,040*
Sundry equipment for vegetable processitg,
bottle washer                                          --                          100,000                   720        1,080       1,800       900         900*
Office, lab. workshop, spares, misc. equip.               --                           50,000                   360         540          900       450        450*
Crating, freight, insurance                              --                             5%                       __       1,170       1,170        468        702*
Installation                                             --                            10%                      --        2,460       2,460     1,722         738
Sub-total                                                                                                    9,360      17,670       27,030    8,760       18,270
5.  Transportation Equipment                                2 x 5 ton                        20,000/ea.                --          720         720       288         432
2 pickups                        10,000/ea.               180         180          360       144        216
2 lift-trucks                    20,000/ea.                --          720         720        72        648*
180       1,620       1,800        504      1,296
2/
6.  Engineering and Overhead
Organizational expenses                                   --                            1%                     500           --         500        500         --
Consultant fees (specs, bids, supervision)                --                            4%                   1,000        1,000       2,000     1,400         600
Contractor's engineering                                  --                            5%                   1,250        1,250       2,500     1,500       1.000
Sub-total                                                                                                    2,750        2,250       5,000     3,400       1,600
3/
7.  import Duties                                               --                           30%                       --       5,660        5,660     5,660          --
8.  Technical and Management Services                           --                           --                        --           --          --        --          --
Total Fixed Investment w/o Contingencies                                                                    24,730       37,950      62,680   33,487       29,193
9.  Physical Contingencies                                      --                            5%                    1,240       1,900        3,140     1,680      1,460
4/
10.  Working Capital                                             --                      Avg. turnover: 4 mo.           --       9,300        9,300     9,300          --
Total Investment w/o Price Contingencies                                                                    25,970       49,i50      75,120   44,467       30,653
1/ This model is intended to demonstrate the economic viability of fruit and vegetable processing in Yugoslavia under present
conditions and thereby support justification for financing construction of analogous plants and/or expansion of existing
fruit and vegetable processing plants under the project.  See Annex  5   Table  2  for projected loans related to fruit
and vegetable processing.
2/ On items 2, 3 and 4.
3/ Import duty on items shown with an asterisk.
4/ From Annex 5 Table 7 .



APP RAISAL OF                                                             ANNEX5
A SECOND AGRICULTUUAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                   Table 7
Fruit and VeRetabes Procassins Plantu
Income and Operatins Cost Pro1ections                                        2/
Yield or Number of Units                                     3/   ------------------- Years --------------------
at Full Developrent               Cost of Price Per Unit        1-2         3           4            5  - 20
Volume                                      Rarvest Season                                               -------------------  Tons  ------------------
Tomatos                              August-September                               --                    --    3,000        4,000            5,000
Peppers                              August-October                                 --                    --      900        1,200            1,500
Onions                               August-April                                   --                    --      500          600               800
Carrots                              February-April                                 --                    --      100          150               200
Apples                               August-October   ) also from                   --                    --      900        1,200             1,500
Pears                                October-Navesber ) cold store                  --                    --      400          600               700
Berries                              May-September    ) up to Feb.-Mar.             --                    --      200          250               300
Total                                                                                                     --    6,000        8,000           10,000
---------------  Din Million ----------------
Income                                                            4
Tomato concentrate sold(28/307.          Market             Yield
solids)                              Export   607.        0 155           Din 15,000/ton at border        --      4.2          5.6              7.0
Domestic 407      )                  Din 18,000/ton at plant         --      3.3          4.5               5.6
Pickled peppers, onions, carrots       Export   80%         1.2             Din 5,000/ton  at border        --      7.2          9.4              12.0
Domestic 207.     )                  Din 6,000/ton  at plant         --      2.2          2.8               3.6
Fruit juices, from apples, pears,    Export              ) 0.8              Din 11,000/ton at plant         --     11.4         15.8              19.4
berries                              Domestic 1007.   ) 2.0               Din 15,000/ton at plant         --      6.0          7.5               9.0
Total Income                                                                                                --     34.3         45.6              56.6
Operating Cost
Direct Costs
Purchase of raw materials
Tomato                            At peak of season                     Din 1,000/ton at plant          --      3.0          4.0              5.0
Peppers                           At peak of season                     Din 3,000/ton at plant          --      2.7          3.6              4.5
Onions                            At peak of season                     Din 1,000/ton at plant          --      0.5          0.6              0.8
Carrots                           At peak of season                     Din 1,000/ton at plant          --      0.1          0.2              0.2
Apples                             Industrial grade                     Din 1,800/ton at plant          --      1.6          2.2               2.7
Pears                              Industrial grade                     Din 1,800/ton at plant         --       0.7          1.1              1.3
Berries                            Industrial grade                     Din 5,000/ton at plant          --      1.1          1.3               1.5
Direct Labor  :skilled               60 persons x 12 mo.                  Din 3,000/mo. + 507.            --      2.4          2.8               3.2
unskilled            120 persons x 9 iso.                 Din 2,400/mo. + 50%             --      3.1          3.5               3.9
Purchased Power                        60 KWH/ton raw material              Din 0.8/KWH                     --      0.3          0.4               0.5
Fuel, lubricants                       100 kg F.P./ton raw material         Din 2.-/kg fuel oil             --       1.6          1.8              2.0
Packing Materials:
Tomato concentrate                   907. in 5 kg cans; 10% in            Din l.-/kg product              --      0.5          0.6               0.8
100 gr. tubes
Picked vegetables                    in 0.5 lt. jars, 12/carton           Din l.-/kg product              --      1.8          2.3               3.0
Fruit juices                         in 0.2 lt. bottles, returnable       Din 2.-/kg product              --      1.6           2.0              2.4
crates
Ingredients, cleaning, misc. materials                                      Din 100/ton raw material        --      0.6          0.8               1.0
Transportation to border
including insurance                  Distance 500 KM                      Din 1,000/ton export            --      1.7          2.2               2.9
Marketing expenses                             --                            5% of total sales              --       1.7          2.3              2.8
Taxes                                          --                                      --                   --        -            -                --
Sub-total                                                                                                   --     25.0         31.7              38.5
Overhead Costs
Maintenance, including materials   10 persons                             Din 3,200/mo. +50%              --      0.8           1.0              1.2
Administration expenses including
insurance                                 --                            Din 150,000/mo.                --       1.2          1.5               1.8
Technical, administrative and
supervisory personnel              15 persons                           Din 3,600/mo. +507.             --      0.6          0.8               1.0
Management                           3  persons                           Din 5,500/mo. +507.             --      0.3          0.3               0.3
Sub-total                                                                                                   --       2.9          3.6              4.3
5/
Total Operating Cost                  208 persons                                                           __      27.9         35.3             42.8
Net Operating Surplus                                                                                       --       6.4         10.3             13.8
1/ This model is intended to demonstrate the economic viability of fruit and vegetable processing in Yugoslavia under present
conditions and thereby support justification for financing construction of analogous plants and/or expansion of existing
fruit and vegetable processing plants under the project. See Annex 5 Table 2 for projected loans related to fruit
and vegetable processing.
2/ Two years would be required for design, bidding and construction, operations would commence in the third year of the life
of each plant.
3/ Prices based on mission's findings.
4/ Allows for additions of ingredients/water.
5/ Working capital, first year of operations: Din 9.3 million assuming an average turnover of four months.



APPRAI SAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSIAVIA
Fruit and Vexetable Processing Plant
Cash Flow Projections
(Din Millions)
----------------------------------------  Years  -----_____- -___-__-_
1       2       3       4       5       6        7       8       9      10      11      12      13       14      15      16       17      18      19      20
- -- -------------  Din Millions                  --------------------------------------- ---
Income
I/
Borrower's equity                   6.5    12.3      --       --      --      --      --      --      --       --      --      --      --       --      --      --      --      --       --      --
2/        (Local 12.8   23.9                 --       -  --       --      --                   -- --           --      --      --       --      --      --      --       --      --
Long term loam-            (8R      6.9    128        --      --      --      --      --      --        -      -       --       -       --      -       --       -       -        -      ---
a  / (IBRD    69 12.8
Short term loan-                    0.1     1.8      --       --      --      --    2.0      3.0       --      --      --      --      --      --       --      --      --       --      --      --
Total sales 4/                       --      --   34.3   45.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6    56.6   56.6
Last year's cash balance             --    0.1      0.1    8.4      4.1      3.0     1.9     0.6     0.1      5.2   10.3   15.4   18.4   23.5   28.6   33.7    38.8   18.8              0.7     3.8
Total Cash Inflow                  26.1   51.1   34.4   54.0   60.7   59.6   60.5    60.2   56.7   61.8   66.9   72.0   75.0    80.1   85.2   90.3   95.4   75.4    57.3   60.4
Expenditures
23.0
Investments: Fixed assets          26.0   39.9       --       --      --      --     2.1      --       --      --             2.1      --                              2.1   24.2        --      --
Working capital    --        9.3       --      --      --      --               --          --      --      --      --       --      --      --      --       --          --      --
Operating Costs5/                    --      --   18.6   35.3   42.8   42.8   42.8           42.8  42.8   42.8   42.8   42.8   42.8   42.8   42.8   42.8    42.8   42.8    42.8   42.8
Debt Service
(Local  --               --     6.5      6.9    7.3      7.8     8.2           --          --      --      --       --      --      --      --       --      --      --
Long term loan principal(IBRD    -_          _        --    3.2    3.5    3.9        4.3     4.8       --      --      --      --       --      --               --      __      __       __      __
term loan interest (Local  --         0.8      2.2    2.2      1.8     1.4     1.0     0.5       --      --      --       --      -_      -_      __       -_      __      __       __      __
Long term  loan interest (IBRD    --        0.8      2.2    2.2      1.8     1.4     1.0     0.5       --      --      --       --      --      --      --       --      -_      __       __      __
Short term loan principal            --     0.1     1.8       --      --      --      --     2.0      3.0      --      --      --           --          --       --      -- __   __
Short term loan interest             --     0.0     0.2       --      --      --      --    0.2       1.1      --      --       --      --      --      --       --      -_               --      __
Income Tax 6/                        --      --    0.4       0.1     0.4    0.4      0.5     0.6      0.6     0.7     0.7     0.7     0.7      0.7     0.7     0.7      0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7
Dividends Distributed                --       --    0.1      0.1     0.1    0.1      0.1     0.1      0.4     8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0     7.0   10.0   10.0
Total Cash Ou0I low                26.0   5l1O    26.0   49.9    57.7     57.7   59.9   60.1   51.    51.5   51.5    3                1.5   51.5      1      51.5      66      47       35      35
Cash Balance at Year's End   0.1          0.1     8.4    4.1       3.0     1.9     0.6     0.1     5.2   10.3   15.4   18.4   23.5    28.6   33.7    38.8   18.8              0.7     3.8      6.9
Financial Rate of Return   14X
Investment Costs + 10%7        12%
Operating  Costs + 10%7          77.
Revenue             - 10%    :  4%
1/ 257. of total investement.
2/  33% of local funds at W. interest; 42% IBRD funds at 11% interest; 7 years including 2 years of grace.
3/  12% of interest.
4/  From Annex 5 Table 7.
5/  From Annex 5 Table 6, project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and transportation equipment in years 7-12-17
including duties, engineering and physical contingencies.
6/ 7% after interest charges and Din 4.2 million depreciation charge.
II



ANNEx 5
APPRAISAL OF                                                                      Table 9
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Cold Store and Fruit/Vegetable Packing
Investment Projections
------------------- Investment Costs --------------------
Capacity or        Cost per Unit                                                       Foreign
Total Units            US$           Year 1   Year 2               Total    Local    Exchange
1/
Capacity:  Cold Store                              3,000 tons                  --
Packing Plant:                         2,000 boxes(20 kg)shift   --
2/                                                                      --------------------- Din '000 --------------------------
Investment Items
1.  Land and Site Preparation                              2 Ha                     0.5/m 2       180       --                 180       180         --
2.  Civil Works                                               2
Access roads and plant yards                     3,000 m                     20/m2          760     320                1,080    1,080          --
Fencing and infrastructure                         600 m                     15/m           160      --                  160       128         32
Insulated cold store and blast freezer           1,900 m2                  300/m 2       7,180   3,080                10,260    5,130      5,130*
Main fruit/vegetable packing shed                  800 m2                   150/m2        1,510     650                2,160    1,296         864
Office, amenities                                  400 m2                   250/m2        1,260     540                1,800    1,260         540
Garage, store, engine room, aux. bldgs.            300 m2                   150/m2          570     240                  810       648        162
Effluent treatment                                  50 m3/day               300/m3/day      130      140                 270       202         68
Sub-total                                                                             11,570   4,970                16,540    9,744      6,796
3.  Utilities33
Water wells, storage tank, pumps, chlorinator  I x lOm /hr                1,500 m /hr       110      160                 270        54        216
power sub-station, transformers, switchgear,
controls                                          2 x 250 KVA              150/KVA          540     810                1,350       270      1,080*
Refrigerating equipment, evaporators,
compressors and aux.                              3 x 80 tons            1,200/ton        2,070   3,110                5,180       518     4,662*
Service lines                                         --                 107.               --      680                  680   '  272        408
Crating, freight, insurance                           --                  5%                --      370                  370        74        296*
Installation                                          --                 10,               --      790                  790       553        237
Sub-total                                                                              2,720   5,920                 8,640    1,741      6,899
4. Machinery and Equipm,ent
Weight bridge                                      20 tons              25,000              180      270                 450       135        315*
Wooden bins and pallets                          2,500(400 kg ea)         15/ea              --      680                 680       680         --
Receiving and washing equipment                  2,000 boxes/shift      90,000              650     970                1,620       162     1,458*
Grading and packing lines                        2,000 boxes/shift    150,000             1,080   1,620                2,700       270      2,430*
Blast freezer equipment                             30 tons/shift       60,000              430     650                1,080       108        972*
Office and misc, equip, spares, tools                 --                40,000               --      720                 720       216        504*
Crating, freight, insurance                                                5%                --      360                 360        72        288*
Installation                                          --                 10%                 --     760                  760       456        304
Sub-total                                                                               2,340   6,030                8,370    2,099      6,271
3/
5.  Transportation Equipment                          (2 lift/trucks           20,000/ea           --      720                  720       72        648*
(2 pick-up              10,000/ea           180     180                  360       144        216
Sub-total                                                                                 180     900                1,080       216        864
4/
6.  Engineering and Overhead
Organizational Expenses                               --                   1%               340       --                 340       340         --
Consultants (specs, bidding, supervision)             --                   4%               670      670               1,340       804        536
Contractor's fees                                     --                   5%               840      840               1.680       840        840
Sub-total                                                                               1,850   1,510                3,360    1,984       1,376
5/
7.  Import Duties                                           --                  30%                --   5,330                5,330    5,330          --
8.  Technical and Management Services                       --                  --                 --       --                   - 
Total Fixed Investment w/o Contingencies                                                 18,840  24,660               43,500   21,294    22,206
9.  Physical Contingencies                                  --                   5%               940   1,230                 2,170    1,060      1,110
6/
10. Working Capital                                          --              Avg. turnover          --   6,100                6,100    6,100          --
11   weeks__ _ __ _ __ _ _ _
Total Investment w/o Price Contingencies (One Plant)                    119,780  31,990                               51,770   28,454    23,316
--------- Years ---------
1        2         3
Total Investment w/o Price Contingencies(Three Plants)                                   31,070  62,120    62,120  155,310   85,362    69,948
8/
11.  Price Contingencies                                                                         3,150  11,840    17.590   32.580   17,906    14.674
Total Investment                                                                         34,220  73,960    79,710  187,890  103,268    84,622
1/ The facility would be of modular construction to allow for future expansion.
2/ Three plants would be financed in Serbia, one each in Smederevo, Nis and Eraguevac.
3/ Trucks would be hired for transporting fruit and vegetables at harvest.
O/ on items 2, 3 and 4.
5/ Import duty on items shown with asterisk.
6/  From Annex   5 Table 10.
7/ Combined disbursement assumed: Year 1; 20%; year 2: 40%; year 3: 40%.
8/ Applicable as of second quarter 1977; year 1: 10.1%; year 2: 19.1%; year 3: 28.3X.
i/ Financing as subsequently agreed would permit an expansion of appraised capacity by approximately 10, (See Table 2)



APPRAISAL OF                                                         ANNEX  5
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                               Table 10
YUGOSLAVIA
Cold Store and Fruit/Vegetable Packing
Income and Operating Cost Projections -
2/
Yield or Number of Units            Cost or Price           -----------------  Years  ----------------
At Full Development                per Unit 4/            1-2           3             4         5-20
3/
Vo)lume
------------------- Tons -----------------
Chilled Produce:                Storage Period
Apples                        Avg. 3.5 mo.(Aug-Mar)                 --                  --          1,000         1,500       1,800
Pears                         Avg. 2.5 mo.(Oct-Mar)                --                   --            400           600         700
Peaches                       Avg. 0.5 mo.(Jun-Aug)                --                   --            100           150         200
Grapes                        Avg. 2.5 mo.(Oct-Mar)                --                   --            100           150         200
Sub-total                       Avg. 3   mo.(12 weeks)                --                   --         1,600         2,400       2,900
Frozen Produce
Strawberries                  Avg. 2   mo.(May-Sep)                 --                  --            300           400          500
Sour cherries                 Avg. 1.5 mo.(Jun-Sep)                 --                  --          1,000         1,300       1,500
Peppers                       Avg. 3.5 mo.(Sep-Apr)                 --                  --            300           400         500
Green beans                   Avg. 4   mo.(Aug-Apr)                 --                  --            200           300         400
Peas                          Avg. 4.5 mo.(Jul-Apr)                 --                  --            100           200         300
Sub-total                       Avg. 2.5 mo.(10 weeks)                --                   --         1,900         2,600        3,200
Income
chilled Graded Produce            Market   -  Yield                                     ---------------- Din Millions -------------
Sold in Crates
Apples                          Domestic       .95         Din ll.-/kg at plant          --         10.4          15.7         18.8
Pears                           Domestic       .95         Din ll.-/kg at plant          --          4.2           6.3          7.3
Peaches                         Domestic       .80         Din ll.-/kg at plant          --          0.9           1.4          1.8
Grapes                          Domestic       .90         Din  8.-/kg at plant          --          0.7           1.1          1.4
Frozen Produce
Sold in Cartons
Strawberries                    Domestic       ,90         Din 12.-/kg at plant          --          3.2           4.3          5.4
Sour cherries                   Export         .90         Din 14.-/kg at plant          --         12.6          16.4        18.9
Peppers                         Domestic       .95        Din 10.-/kg at plant           --          2.9           3.8         4.8
Green beans                     Domestic       .95         Din  9.-/kg at plant          --          1.7           2.6          3.4
Peas                            Domestic       .95         Din  9.-/kg at plant          --          0.9           1.7          2.6
Total Income                          --                            --                              37.5          53.3        64.4
operating Cost
Direction Costs
Raw material purchases:
Apples                             1,800 tons/yr.          Din  6.-/kg at plant          --          6.0            9.0        10.8
Pears                                700 tons/yr.          Din  6.-/kg at plant          --          2.4           3.6         4.2
Peaches                              200 tons/yr.          Din  6.-/kg at plant          --          0.6           0.9          1.2
Grapes                               200 tons/yr.          Din  5.-/kg at plant          --          0.5           0.8          1.0
Strawberries                         500 tons/yr.          Din  7.-/kg at plant          --          2.1           2.8          3.5
Sour cherries                      1,500 tons/yr.          Din  6.-/kg at plant          --          6.0           7.8          9.0
Peppers                              500 tons/yr.          Din  3.-/kg at plant          --          0.9           1.2          1.5
Green beans                          400 tons/yr.          Din  3.-/kg at plant          --          0.6           0.9          1.2
Peas                                 300 tons/yr.          Din  3.-/kg at plant          --          0.3           0.6          0.9
Direct Labor   : Skilled        30 persons x 12 mo./yr. Din 3,000/mo. + 50%              --          1.2            1.4         1.6
Unskilled   60 persons x  9 mo./yr. Din 24.-/mo.  + 50%              --          1.3            1.6         1.9
Purchased Power:  Fresh produce   150 KWH/ton             (Din  0.8/KWH                              0.6           0.7          0.8
Frozen produce  200 KWH/ton           (                              --
Crates                          20 kg/ea.(47% of vol.)  Din I0.-/crate at plant    --                0.8            1.2         1.5
Cartons and liners              20 kg/ea.(53% of vol.)  Din 15.-/carton at plant   --                1.4            2.0         2.4
Refrigerant, misc. materials             --                Din ll.-/ton at plant         --          0.8            1.0         1.2
Transportation raw material:   Radius 100 km               Din 200/ton                   --          0.7            1.0         1.2
Taxes                                    --                         --                   --           --             --          --
Sub-total                                  --                         --                   --         26.2          36.5         43.9
overhead Costs
Maintenance, incl. materials         10 persons            Din 3,200/mo + 50%            --          0.8            1.0         1.2
Administration expenses, incl. ins.   --                   Din 100,000/mo.               --          0.8            1.0         1.2
Technical, administrative and
supervisory personnel              15 persons            Din 3,600/mo.+ 50%            --          0.6           0.8          1.0
Management                            3 persons            Din 5,500/mo.+ 50%            --          0.3            0.3         0.3
Sub-total                                  --                         --                   --          2.5            3.1         3.7
5/
Total Operating Cost                118 persons                     --                   --         28.7           39.6        47.6
Net Operating Surplus                                                                    --          8.8           13.7        16.8
1/ All figures correspond to one plant, three plants would be financed in Serbia.
2/ Two years would be required for design bidding and construction, operations would commence in the third year of the life of each plant.
3/ Estimated volumes based on cold store capacity, storage period and availability of raw material in both private and social sectors
in the project area.
4/ Prices based on mission's findings in the project area.
5/ working capital, first year of operations: Din 6.1 million assuming an average turnover of 11 weeks.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Cold Store and Fruit/Vegetable Packing
Cash Flow Projections
(Din Million)
---    -  - -  - - -   - - -  -  -  - - -   - - -  -  - -  - -   - - -    Ye r    - -  -  - - -   - -  -  - -  - -  -  - - -   - -  - -  -  - - -   - - -   --years  - ----
1      2       3      4       5        6        7        8       9       10       11       12       13       14      15      16       17       18       19       20
--------------------  Din Millions
Income
I/
Borrower's equity                       5.0    8.0       --      --      --      --       --       --       --       --      __       _-       __       __      __       __       __       __       __      __
Long term loan 2/             (Local    9.6   15.6       --                  -            --        -       --                                          --           --
3/(IBRD          5.2    8.4        -      -      --       -         -       -        -       -         -       -         -       -        -       -        -        -       -         -
Short term loan/-                        0.1    1.4      --      --      --      --       --       --       --       --      --       -_       __       --      _-       __       __       __       __       __
Total sales                               --      --   37.5   53.3   64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4   64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4    64.4
Last year's cash balance                  --    0.1    0.1    4.4    4.7        4.8      4.9      3.6      4.3      5.1     4.9      4.7       5.2     7.0   10.8    14.6    20.4    14.9          5.7      5.5
Total Cash Inflow                      19.9   33.5   37.6   57.7   69.1    69.2    69.3    68.0    68.7    69.5    69.3    69.1    69.6    71.4   75.2    79.0    84.8    79.3    70.1    69.9
Expenditures
5/                                                                                                                                                                  10.0
Investments: Fixed assets              19.8   25.9                                       1.3       --       --       --       --     1.3       --       --      --       --      1.3    15.0        --       --
Working capital             --    6.1      --      --      --      --       --       --       --       --      --       --       --       --      --       --       --       --       --       --
operating costs                           __      --   22.6   39.6   47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6   47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6
Debt Service
(Local      --     --      --    4.5    4.7       5.0      5.3      5.6       --       --       --      --       --       --      --       --       --       --       --       --
Long term loan principal (IBRD          --     __      __    2.2    2.4       2.7      3.0      3.3       --       --                -_      __       __       __      __       __       __       __
(Local      _  0.6    1.5    1.5    1.2           1.0      0.7      0.3       --       --       --      _-       - _       -      _ _      _ _      __       __
Long term loan interest  (IBRD          -    0.6    1.5    1.5    1.3         1.0      0.7      0.4       __       __       __       __        _      __      __       __       __       __       __       __
Short term loan principal               --    0.1    1.4       --      --      --       --       --       --       --       _ _      _ _      __      __      __       __       _ 
Short term loan interest                --    0.0    0.2       --     --       --       --       --       --       --       --      --       --       --      __       __       __       __
Income tax 6/                             --     --    0.6    0.5    0.8        0.8      0.9      0.9      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0    1.0       1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Dividends distributed                     --      --    5.0    3.0    6.0        6.0     6.0      5.3    15.0    16.0    16.0    14.0    14.0    12.0   12.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    16.0    16.0
Total Cash Outflow                      19.8   33.4   33.2   53.0   64.3    64.3    65.7    63.7    63.6    64.6    64.6    63.9    62.6    60.6   60.6    58.6    69.9    73.6    64.6    64.9
Cash Balance at Year's End            0.1    0.1    4.4    4.7    4.8         4.9      3.6      4.3      5.1      4.9      4.7      5.2      7.0    10.8   14.6    20.4    14.9         5.7      5.5      5.0
Financial Rate of Return    27%
Investment Costs + 10%      : 25%
Operating  Costs + 10%7        20%
Revenue           - 10%7       16%
1/  25% of total investment.
2/  33% local funds at 6% interest; 42% IBRD funds at 11% interest, 7 years including 2 years of grace.
3/ 12% of interest.
4/ From Annex 5 Table 10.
5/  From Annex 5 Table 9, project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and transportation equipment in years 7-12-17 including
engineering, duties and physical contingencies.
6/ 7b after interest charges and Din 2.7 million depreciation charge.



APPRAISAL OP                                                                                 5
A SECOlD AGRICIIXUL C IT ff0331I
Broiler Production and Proossmin" Plant
InvestSnt Pro1ectiqna
-e-f---------- Ietlnt Coats --------------------------
Capacity or           Coat par Unit                                                                           Foreign
Total Unit                us S                 year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Total       Loal       Zmbaa
I/
Capacity , Rearing                              30,000 birds                  --
Breeding                           30,000 birds                  --
Incubating and hatching            65,000 eggs/week              --
Broiler production                 1 million /yr                 --
Slaughtering                        1,250 birds/hr               --
Freezing                           10,000 birds/24 hrs           --
Cold storage                      200,000 broilers               --
2/
Investment Item
1.  Land and Site Preparation                           20 it.                SOO/Ha-------___
Broiler production                                20  9a 500/Ha                                 180            _-           __         180         180           --
Processing plant                                   1 Ha                   0.5/m                  90            __          __           90          90           __
Sob-total
2. Civil Works
Access roads and plant yards                  2 km a 5                    3/s2                  430           430           __         900         900           __
Fencing and infrastructure                    2.5 kI                     15/i                   340           330          --          670         S36          134
Rearing houses                                4 x 400 m2                 50/m2                  140         1,010          290       1,440       1,080          360
Breeder houses                                10 a 400 m2                50/rn2                 360         2,520         720        3,600       2,700          900
Incubators and hatchers                          400 m2                 150/m2                  110           760         210        1,080         756          324
Broiler houses                                4 x 1,350 m2               50/m2                  490        3,400          970        4,860       3,645        1,213
Main slaughtering bldg. including
grading and packing                            900 i2                 250/r2                 410         2,840          800        4,050       2,835        1,215
Freening tunnel and cold store                   300 i2                 300/r2                  160         1,130         330        1,620         972          648*
Office, lab. amenities                           400 a2                 250/m2                  180       - 1,260         360        1,800       1,260          540
Store, engine rome, garage,  bua  hldge.         400 m2                 150/n2                  110           760         210        1,080         864          216
Effluent treatment                            30 lt/bird/day            500/m3/day               --         1.350       1 350        2,7         2,025          675
Sob-total                                                                                     2,750       15,810        5,240       23,800      17,573        6,227
3. Utilities                                                    3
Water wells, puips, storage tank,             2   x  40 m /hr         1,300/m3/hr               220         1,730          210       2,160         432        1,728
filters chlorinators
Power aubstation, transformers,
switchgear, controls                        2   x  400 KVA            150/RVA                220         1,730          210        2,160         432        1,728*
parkasge steam generators, fuel tank,
water treatment and as.                     2   xl,OOO kg/hr       20,000/ton/hr               80           320         320          720         432          288
Refrigerating equipaent, evaporators,
compressors, and as.                        3   x   40 tons         1,200/ton                 260        1,170        1,160        2,590         518        2,072*
Service lines                                       --                    10%                    --           --          760          760         304          456*
Crating, freight, insurance                         --                     5%                    --            __         420          420          84          3356
installation                                        __                    10%                   __            __          880          880         616          264
Slb-total                                                                                       780        4,950        3,960        9,690       2,818        6,872
4. Machinery and Equipenent
Incubators                                    10 x 20,000 eggs/e-.   10,000 ea.                 180          900          720        1,800         180        1,620
Hatchers                                       5 x  7,000 eggs/.a.   10,000 ea.                  90           450         360          900          90          810
Mechanical feeding and watering equipment    250,000 birds            90,000                    160           810         650        1,620         972          648
Ventilation and heating equipment              250,000 birds         150,000                    270        1,350        1,080        2,700       1r620        1,080
Trays, cages, misc. equipment                       --                10,000                     20            90          70          180         180           --
6-row x 3-tier battery gallery system,       75 cages/tier x 32
cosplete                                   birds/rage            4 x 150,000/house         1,080         5,400        4,320       10,800       2,160       8,640*
Complete broiler slaughtering and
eviscerating line                              1,250 birds/hr      250,000                   450         2,250        1,800        4,500         900       3,600*
Spin-chilling, grading and packing equip.        1,250 birds/hr       50,000                     90          450          360          900          90          810
Office, lab  misc, processing equipment             --                30,000                     --           270         270          540         216         324
Crating, freight, insurance                         --                     5%                    --          600          600        1,200         240          960*
Installation                                        __                    107.                   --        1.250        1.260        2.510       1,757          753
Sub-total                                                                                     2,340       13,820       11,490       27,650       8,405      19,245
5.  Transportation Equipsent                         2 a pick-ups           10,000 ea.                360            --          --          360         144          216
2 x 5 ton trucks       20,000 ea.                --           360          360          720        288          432
3/
6. Engineering and Overhead
Organizational expenses                             --                      1%                  630           --           --          630         630           __
Consultants (specs, bids, supervision)              --                     4%                   830          840          840        2,510       1,506       1,004
Contractor's engineering and overhead               --                     5%                1.040         1,050        1,050        3.140       1 570       1,570
Sob-total                                                                                    2,500         1,890        1,890        6,280      3,706        2,574
4/
7. Import Duties                                          --                    30%                    --            --       6,370        6,370      6,370            --
8. Technical and Management Services                       --                     --                   --            --           --          --          --           --
Total Fixed Investment w/o Contingencies                                                     9,000        36,830       29,310       75,140     39,574       35,566
9.  Physical Contingencies                                --                     5%                   450        1,840        1,470        3,760       1,980       1,780
10. Working Capital                                        __            Avg. turnover: 1 sw.           --            --       3,460        3,460      3,460            __
Total Investment w/o Price Contingencies                                                     9,450        38,670       34,240       82,360     45,014       37,346
6/
11. Price Contingencies                                    --                                          920        7,210        9,510       17,640      9,640        8,000
Tot-l Investment                                                                            10,370        45,880       43,750      100,000     34,654       45,346
1/ The complex wosld produce 2.5 million chicks net of losses, 1.5 million would be sold to private sector for rearing into broilers which the plant
w.ould purchase for slaughtering. The complex would produce and slaughter alas 1  illion broilrs of its own.
2/ One rcoplex would be financed in Kossovo.
3/ On items 2, 3 and 4
4/ Import doty on items shown with asterisk.
5/ From Annex 5 Table 13
6/ Applicable as of second quarter 1977:  year 1: 9.9%, year 2: 18.6%, year 3: 27.8%.



AMISAML OF                                                                                Table 13
A SECOW   AGIICULTVUZL CUIDIT PROJCT
Bro     P      tion and Processing Plant
Incale  anodupeaiaCa            lcin
1/
yield or =user of Units         Cost or Price         -----ear-------  V,ars  -----------------------
at Full Development             per Unit_/           1-2-3          4            5           6-20
Volume
Production of day old chicks for private sector                      --                        --                   --       721,000   1,236,000       1,545,000
Broilers collected from  private sector                              --                         --                  --       700,000   1,200,000    1,500,000
Broilers produced at plant                                           --                         --                  --       500,000       750,000    1,000,000
Broilers slaughtered and frozen                                      --                         --                  --    1,200,000   1,950,000    2,500,000
Eggs sold                                                            -_                                             --       540,000       875,000    1,080,000
Manure produced, tons                                                --                         --                  --            500          750          1,000
incme                                                                                                              ------------  DiM Millions  ----------___
Day-old chicks sold to private sector                                --                Din      4/ea.delivered      --         2.9          4.9             6.2
Eviscerated broilers sold, frozen                         1.2 kg /bird                Din    32/kg at plant         --        46.1         74.9           96.0
Eviscerated hens/cocks sold, frozen                       1.5 kg /bird                 Din    25/kg at plant        --         0.5          0.9             1.1
Eggs sold                                                40/female/yr                 Din    24/doz at plant    --             1.7          2.8             3.6
Manure sold                                               1 kg/bird                   Din   100/ton at plant    --             0.1          0.1             0.1
Total Income                                                                                                                  51-3         83.6          106.0
Operating Cost
Direct Costs
Stock purchases (d-old'3                                 Female.  27,200              Din    15/ea.                 __         0.2          0.3            0.4
Stock purchases 5(day-old)-            Male  :   3,400              Din    30/e.                 --         0.0          0.1            0.1
Broilers purchased from  private sector                   1.5 kg LW/ea.               Din    20/kg LE w-                      21.0         36.0           45.0
Chicks   0 - 6  weeks                                     30,000 x 1.5 kg           Din      3.8/kg               --         0.1          0.1            0.2
Growers  6 -24 weeks                                      30,000 x 10  kg           Din      3.5/kg               --         0.5         0.8             1.1
Layers                                                   26,700 x 45  kg            Din      3.7/kg               --         2.1         3.5             4.3
Cockerels                                                  3,300 x 3.6 kg           Din      3.7/kg               --         0.0         0.0             0.0
Broilers                                              1,000,000 x 3.85kg            Din      3.8/kg               --         7.2        10.9            14.5
Medicines and vaccines                                  Broiler and grower            Dinn      0.8/bird                       0.4          0.6             0.8
Breeder                     (Din       2.4/bird
Direct labor                               skilled:    Farm : 20 x 12 no.              Din 3,000  /mo.+ 50%         --         0.7          0.9             1.1
Plant: 30 x 12 mo.            Din 2,400  /mo.+ 50%         --         0.9          1.1             1.2
unskilled:.    Farm : 20 x 12 mo.            Din 3,000  /mo.+ 50%          --         0.7          0.9             1.1
Plant: 40 x 12 ma.            Din 2,400  /mo.+ 50%         --         1.1          1.3             1.6
Farm :800 11WH/1l000          Din      0.8/KWH             --          1.0         1.2             1.5
Purchased power                                       (             broilers
Plant:1,000 KWd/1,000         Din      0.8/KWH             --         0.9          1.4             1.9
broilers
Farm  :100 Ite/1,000          Din      0.2/lt.             --         0.1          0.1             0.1
Fuel, lubricants, chemicals                           (broilers
Plant:100 lts/1,000           Din      0.2/lt.             --         0.1          0.1             0.1
(broilers
Poly liners and cartons                                            b l                Din    10.-/doz.broiler   --             1.0          1.6             2.1
General materials                                                    --               Din       0.5/broiler         --         0.5          0.9             1.2
Transportation, distribution of chicks and
collection of broilers to and from private
sector                                                Radius 100 km                 Din   300/1,000 broilers  --             0.4         0.6             0.8
Taxes                                                                --                Din      --                  --          --           --              --
Sub-total                                                                                                           --        38.9        62.4            79.1
Overhead Costs
Maintenance including materials                          10 persons                   Din 3,200/mo. + 50%           --         0.8          1.0            1.2
Administration expenses, including insurance                         --                Din 100,000/mo.              --         0.8          1.0             1.2
Technical, administrative and technical
personnel                                             12 persons                    Din 3,600/mo. + 50%           --         0.6         0.7             0.8
Management                                               4 persons                    Din 5,500/mo. + 50%           --         0.4         0.4             0.4
Sub-total                                                                                                           --         2.6          3.1            3.6
Total Operating Cost                                    26 persons                                                  --        41.5        65.5            82.7
Net Operating Surplus                                                                                               --         9.8        18.1            23.3
I/ Three years would be required for design, bidding and construction, operations would commence in year four.
2/ Prices based on missimon's findings.
3/ Provision for 2% mortalities.
4/  Working capital first year of operations:  Din   3.5   million assuming an average turnover of one month.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Broiler Production and Processing Plant
Cash Flow Proiections
(Din. Millions)
---------------------------------  Years ----------------------------
1       2       3      4        5        6        7        8        9       10        11       12       13       14      15        16       17       18       19        20
Inco Income                                                          -     -      -     -     -     -Din. Millions  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Borrower's equity 1J                       2.4     9.7     8.6       --      --
Long term loan  /                (Local   4-0   20.1   16.0         __ --                     --       --       --       --        --       --       --           --       --       --  --                 --        --
(IBRD     2.2   10.8    8.6        __      __      __       --        --       --       --       --       --        --       --      --       --        --       --       --        --
Short term loan                            0.1    0.7      3.9       --      --      --       --       _-       -_       __        __       __       __       _ _     __        __       _ __
Total sales  J                               --    --       --    51.3   83.6   106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0  106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0   106.0
Last year's cash balance                   --    0.1      0.1    0.1      1.6       1.4      3.0      3.4      3.9      4.0     10.0    16.0    20.9    26.9   32.9    38.9    44.9             25.2      6.2       6.2
Total Cash Inflow                         9.6   39.5    38.2   S1.4   85.2   107.4   109.0   109.4   109.9   110.0   116.0   122.0    126.9   132.9  138.9   144.9   150.9    131.2    112.2   112
Expenditures.7                                                                                                                                                                   24.6
Investments:- Fixed assets                9.5   38.7   30.7        --      --        --      1.1       __       __       __                1.1       -_       __       _                1.1     25.0        --       --
Working capital            --       --    3.5       --      --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --      --       --       --        --       --       --
Operating costs                            --      --       --   38.5   65.5    82.7        82.7     82.7    82.7    82.7    82.7    82.7          82.7    82.7   82.7        82.7     82.7     82.7      82.7    82.7
Debt Service
Long term  loan principal    Local
(1810  --       --      --    ~~~~~3.5   3.9    4.3       4.7      5.3
(Local   --    0.2       1.4    2.4    2.4         2.0     1.5       1.1      0.5
Long term loan interest    (IBRD         __    0.2      1.4    2.4    2.4         2.0      1.6      1.1      0.6
Short term loan principal                --     0.1     0.7    3.9       --       --        --       --       --       --       -_        _-       __       __      __        __       __       __        __       __
Short term loan interest                 --    0.0      0.1    0.3       --       --        --            --       --       --       --        --       --          --        --       __       --        --       -_
Income tax 6/                              --      --       --    0.2     0.6       1.0      1.1      1.1      1.2       1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3       1.3     1.3      1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3      1.3
Dividends distributed                      --       --     --    2.0       2.0      5.0      5.0      6.0      6.0    16.0    16.0    16.0         16.0    16.0   16.0        16.0     16.0     16.0    22.0    22.0
Total Cash Outflow                        9.5   39.4   38.1   49.8   83.8    104.4   105.6   105.5   105.9   100.0   100.0   101.1   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   125.7   125.0   106.0   106.0
Cash Balance at Year's End              0.1    0.1      0.1     1.6     1.4      3.0       3.4      3.9      4.0     10.0    16.0    20.9        26.9    32.9   38.9    44.9         25.2      6.2       6.2      6.2
Financial Rate of Return: 207.
Investment Costs + 107.         187.
Operating  Coats + 10%        : 12%
Revenue            - 107,    :  9%
1/  25% total investment.
2/  337, of local funds at 671 interest; 42% IBRD funds at 11% interest; 8 years including 3 years of grace.
3/  12% of interest.
4/ From Annex 5 Table 13.
5/  From Annex 5 Table 12, project machinery and eauipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and transportation equipment in years 7-12-17 including
engineering, duties and physical contingencies,
6/  7% after interest charges and Din 4.6 million depreciation charge.
I t
D, 



APPRA1SAL OF                                                                     ANNEX  5
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                           Table 15
YUGOSLAVIA         1/
Meat Processing Plant -
Investment Proiections
------------- Investment Costs -------------------
Capacity or Total        Cost per Unit                                                    Foreign
Units                  US $          Year I       Year 2      Total      Local    Exchange
Capacity
Slaughtering, cattle                                      100 head/8 bours                --
Processed meats, fresh                                3,500 kg raw meat/8 hours           --
Processed meats, canned                               3,500 kg raw meat/8 hours           --
Investment Items                                                                                         ---------------- Din. '000 ---------______-______
1.  Land and Site Preparation                                           2 Ha                    2/m2          720            --         720        720         --
2.  Civil Works
Access roads and plant yeards                                  2,500 m2                 20/m2           630           270         900        900        --
Fencing and infrastructure                                       600 m                  15/m          1,620            --       1,620      1,296       324
Cattle pens incl. isolation pen                                  200 m2                 60/r2           150            70         220        198        22
Main slaughtering and processing bldg.                         1,000 m2                280/m2         3,530        1,510        5,040      4,335       705*
Chillrooms, loading dock, incl. railage                          300 m2                300/m2         1,130          490        1,620      1,296       324*
By products processing bldg., hide skin shed                     400 m2                200/r2         1,010          430        1,440      1,224       216
Emergency slaughter, autopsy room                                200 m2                280/r2           710          300        1,010        808       202
Office, lab, amenities, infirmary                                400 m2                250/r2         1,260          540        1,800      1,440       360
Garage, store, engine room, laundry                              400 a2                150/r2           760          320        1,080        918       162
Effluent treatment (screen, trickling filter,
sedimentation) (507, of total flow)                     3 m3/day/head                500/m2/day   1,350          1,350       2,700       1,890       810*
Sub-total                                                                                            12,150        5,280      17,430      14,305    3,125
3. Utilities
Water wells, pumps, storage tanks filters,                            3                      3
chlorinator                                               2 x 50 m /hr             1,400/r  /hr    1,010         1,510       2,520         504    2,016
Power substation, transformer, switchgear, controls    2 x 350 KVA                      150/KVA         760        1,130        1,890        567    1,323
Package steam generators, fuel tank,
water treatment, and aux.                                 2 x 2,000 kg/hr         20,000/ton/hr       580          860        1,440        864       576
Refrigerating equipment, evaporators
compressors, and aux.                                     3 x 40 tons              1,400/ton       1,210         1,810       3,020         604    2,416*
Service lines                                                    --                      10%             __          890          890        445       445
drating, freight, insurance                                      --                        5%            --          490          490        294       196*
Installation                                                     --                      10%             --        1,030        1,030        824       206
Sub-total                                                                                             3,760        7,720       11,280      4,102     7,178
4. Machinery and Equipment
Cattle killing floor equipment, incl. on-the-rail
dressing, conveyor and structure                           15 head/hr             20,000/head/hr  2,160          3,240       5,400       1,080    4,320*
Edible product handling equipment (tables, trays,
trucks, trolleys, hooks)                                  100 head/8 hr              50,000           360          540         900         720       180
Fresh meats processing equipment,(cutters,
mixers, grinders, stuffers, cooking and smoking
cabinets, aux. equipment)                               3,500 kg/B hr.              500,000        3,600         5,400       9,000       2,700    6,300*
Canned meats processing equipment (cookers, fillers,
can closers, retorts, can washers, aux. equipment)    50 cans/min.                  500,000        3,600         5,400       9,000       2,700    6,300*
By product processing equipment (grinder
melters (2), percolating pan, centrifuge, mill,
tallow tanks, aux.  equipment).                           100 head/B hr             250,000        1,800         2,700       4,500       1,350    3,150*
Office, lab, workshop, laundry, spares
miscellaneous equipment                                        --                    80,000            --        1,440        1,440        720       720*
Crating, freight, insurance                                      --                        5%            --        1,510        1,510        604       906*
Installation                                                     -_                      20%             --        6,350        6,350      4,445     1,905
Sub-total                                                                                           11,520        26,580      38,100    14,319   23,781
5. Transportation Equipment
Livestock trucks                                                  2                    20,000/ea.        --           720         720        288       432
Insulated meat delivery trucks                               2 x 10 tons               25,000/ea.        --           900         900        360       540
Pick up trucks                                                    2                    10,000/ea.       180           180         360        144       216
Sub-total                                                                                               180        1,800        1,980        792    1,188
6.  Engineering and Overhead
Organizational expenses                                          --                        1%           670            --         670        670         --
Consultant's fees (specs, bids, supervision)                     --                        4%         1,330        1,340        2,670      1,869       801
Contractor's fees                                                --                        5%         1,670        1,670        3,340      2,004     1,336
Sub-total                                                                                             3,670        3,010        6,680      4,543     2,137
3/
7.  Import Duties                                                      --                       30%             --        7,840       7,680      7,840         --
8.  Technical and Management Services                                  --                       --              --           --           --         --        --
Total Fixed Investment w/o Contingencies                                                            31,800        52,230      84,030    46,621   37,409
9.  Physical Contingencies                                             --                        5%         1,590         2,610       4,200      2,330      1,870
10.  Working CaPital -                                                  --                   Avg.  turnover      --       10,100   f  10,100     10,100         --
one  month                 ____         ___         ___
Total Investment w/o Price Contingencies                                                             33,390       64,940       98,330    59,051   39,279
1/ This model is intended to demonstrate the economic viablity of meat processing in Yugoslavia under present conditions
and thereby support justification for financing construction of analogous plants and/or expansion of existing meat processing
plants under the project. See Annex 5 Table 2 for projected loans related to meat processing.
2/ On items 2, 3 and 4.
3/ Import duty items shown with an asterisk.
4/ From Annex 5 Table 16 .



APPRAISAL OF                                                               ANNEX 5
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                    Table 16
YUGOSLAVIA    1/
Meat Procesgin  Plant?
Income and Operatin      s Coat Pi lections
2/
Yield or Number of Units       Cost or Price       -------------        Years  --------------------
at Full Development            per Unit            1 - 2              3           4         5 - 20
Volume                                                      4/
Cattle slaughtered, culled cows                        487-  ( 300 days/yr.                                              8,000      10,000       12,000
steers                           52%-/ ( Avg. 80% capacity                               --        8,000      10,000        12,000
Income                                                                      5/
Beef (carcass) sold, local market                      50% of steers 248 kg/head    Din 32.-/kg                --           31.7         39.7         47.6
export market                   50% of steers 220 kg/head    Din 45.-/kg                --           39.6         49.5         59.4
Processed meats, fresh, sold local market              507, of cows   140 6/ kg/head Din 45.-/kg               --           25.2         31.5         37.8
Canned meats, sold local market                        50% of cows   140 6/ kg/head Din 55.-/kg                --           30.8         38.5         46.2
Cattle hides sold, local market                              --         20 kg/head    Din 15.-/kg              --            4.8          6.0          7.2
Inedible by-products sold, local market                     --         15 kg/head    Din ll.-/kg               --            2.7         3.3           4.0
Total Income                                                                                                   __          134.8       168.4         202.2
Operating Cost
Direct Costs                                                                                             --------------  Din Millions  -----------------
Purchase of livestock
Cull cows                                            350 kg/head                    Din 12.-/kg              --           33.6         42.0         50.4
Steers                                               440 kg/head                    Din 20.-/kg              --           70.4        88.0         105.6
Livestock buying expenses and freight                        --                        1% of livestock cost  --              1.0          1.3          1.6
Direct labor  : skilled                                70 persons x 12 mo.             Din 3,000/mo. + 507   --              3.0          3.4          3.8
unskilled                             50 persons x 12 mo.            Din 2,400/mo. + 507   --               1.8         2.0          2.2
Purchased power                                        50 KWH/head                    Din 0.8/KWH              --            0.8         0.9           1.0
Fuel, lubricants                                       30 kg/head                      Din 2.0/kg              --            1.0          1.2          1.4
Cans, cartons for canned meats                         24 x 0.3 kg/can/carton          Din 6/kg canned         --            2.9          3.6          4.3
Wrappings, cartons for processed meats                 20 kg/ea.                       Din 15.-/carton         --            0.3          0'4          0.5
Wrappings for fresh beef exports                             --                        Din 0.3/kg export       --            0.2          0.3          0.4
Ingredients, cleaning, miscellaneous materials,             --                        Din 50/head              --            0.8         1.0           1.2
refrigerant
Freight to border incl. insurance                      Distance: 500 km                Din 1,000/ton export  --              0.8          1.0          1.3
Marketing expenses                                           --                        1% of total sales       --            1.3          1.7          2.0
Taxes
Sub-total                                                                                                      --          117.9       146.8         175.7
Overhead Costs
Maintenance, including materials                       10 persons                      Din 3,200/mo. + 507   --              0.8          1.0          1.2
Administration expenses, including insurance                                           Din 150,000/mo.         --            1.2          1.5          1.8
Technical, administrative and supervisory
personnel                                            15 persons                     Din 3,600/mo. + 50%   --               0.6         0.8           1.0
Management                                             3  persons                      Din 5,500/mo. + 50%   --              0.3          0.3          0.3
Sub-total                                                                                                      --            2.9         3.6           4.3
7/
Total Operating Cost                                  138 persons                                              --          120.8       150.4         180.0
Net Operating Surplus                                                                                          --           14.0         18.0         22.2
1/  This model is intended to demonstrate the economic viability of meat processing in Yugoslavia under present conditions and
thereby support justification for financing construction of analogous plants and/or expansion of existing meat processing
plants under the project. See Annex 5 Table 2 for projected loans related to meat processing.
2/  Two years would be required for design, bidding and construction, operations would commence in the third year of the life of each plant.
3/  Prices based on mission's findings.
4/  Allows for losses, condemnations.
5/  Includes fancy meats corresponding to exported carcasses.
6/  Allows for addition of ingredients and water.
7/ Working capital, first year of operations:  Din 10.1 million assuming an average turnover of one month.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Meat Processing Plant
Cash Flow Prolections
(Din Millions)
Income                      -------------------------------Y- ears   -------------------------------------------------------------------------__
1       2         3         4        5         6         7        8         9       10       11        12        13        14       15        16       17       18       19        20
Borrower's equity                      -----------------           ---                                              Din. Millions  ------------------------------------------------------____-_
(Local  16.3    31.6          --       -         __        _        __        __       __       __        __        __        __       __        __       __                __        __        __
Long term  loan               (IBRD    8.8    17.0          --        --       --        --       --        --       --        --       --        --        --       --        _ _       _          _      _ __
10.7    20.8
short term loan                         0.1     2.3         --        --       --        --       --        --       --        --       --        --        --       --        --        --       _ _      _ __
Total sales                              --       --     134.8    168.4   202.2    202.2   202.2   202.2   202.2    202.2   202.2    202.2    202.2   202.2   202.2    202.2    202.2  202.2    202.2   202.2
Last year's cash balance                 --     0.1        0.1     12.3       9.1       8.7      7.2       3.5      0.8       6.8     12.8      18.8     22.7      28.7      34.7     40.7      46.7    24.6       3.3       4.3
Total Cash Inflow                      33.5    67.3      134.9    180.7    211.3    210.9    209.4    205.7    203.0    209.0    215.0    221.0    224.9    230.9    236.9    242.9    248.9  226.8   205.5   206.5
Expenditures
31.0
Investments:  Fixed assets             33.4   54.8          --        --       __        __      2.1        --       --        --        --      2.1        --        --       -                 2.1    32.3         --       --
Working capital          --    10.1         --       --        --        --       --        --       --        --       --        --       --        --        --        --       -.       --       --        --
Operating Costs                          --       --     110.7   150.4   180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0    180.0    180.0    180.0    180.0    180.0    180.0  180.0   180.0   180.0
Debt Service:
Long tenm  loan principal (Local                            --       8.5      9.0       9.6     10.1    10.7          --       --        --       --        --        --       --        ..        .-      --        --        --
(IBRD      -                  --      4.1      4.6       5.1       5.7      6.3        -         -        -          -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -
Long term loan interest   (LoBRDl               1.0        2.8       2.9      2.4       1.8      1.3       0.6                           -                                     _         __
Short term  loan principal               --     0.1        2.3        --       --        --        --       --        --       --        --       --        --                 --        --        --      --                 --
Short term loan interest                 --     0.0        0.3        --       --        --        --       --        --       --        --       --        --
Income tax                               __      --        0.8      0.4       0.8       0.9      1.0       1.1      1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2       1.2     1.2       1.2      1.2
Dividends distributed                    --       --       2.0       2.0      3.0       4.0      4.0       5.0     15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0      15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0      10.0   10.0       20.0     20.0
Total Cash Outflow                     33.4    67.2      122.6    171.6    202.6    203.7    205.9    204.9    196.2            192     6.2    198.3    196.2    196.2    196.2    196.2    224.3  223.5    201.2    201.2
Cash Balance at Year's End            0.1     0.1       12.3      9.1       8.7       7.2      3.5       0.8      6.8      12.8     18.8      22.7      28.7     34.7      40.7     46.7      24.6      3.3      4.3       5.3
Financial Rate of Return: 197
Investment Costs +  5        : 187
Operating  Costs +  5%    :  9b
Revenue             -  5%    *  7%
1/  25% of total investment.
2/ 33 b of local funds at6 % interest; 427   IBRD funds at 11% interest; 7 years including 2 years of grace.
3/  12% of interest.
4/  From Annex 5 Table 16.
5/  From Annex 5 Table 15 project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and transportation equipment in years 7-12-17, including duties,
engineering and physical contingencies.
6/ 7% after interest charges and Din 5.5 million depreciation charge.



APPRAISAL OF                                                                       ANNEX  5
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                             Table 18
YUGOSLAVIA
Winery
Investment Projections
---------------------- Investement Costs ------------------------
Capacity or               Cost per Unit                                                                          Foreign
Total Units                    US$                Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Total    Local         Exchange
Plant Capacity:
Grinding (Harvest peak)          600 tons grapes/day                      --------- ------------   Din '000
Wine holding                         10 million Its
1/
Investment Items
2
1.  Land and Site Preparation                   2 Ha                       0.5/1                  180            --                       180        180            --
2.  Civil Works
Access roads and plant yards              3,000 m2                  20/r2                   540          540            --        1,080     1,080            __
Fencing and infrastructure                  600 m                   15/m                     80           80            __          160       128            32
Pall for grape reception and             2,300 m2                 120/r2                   500         2,980         1,490       4,970      3,976           994
crushing                                       2                10.                                                                                     ,2
Hall for fementation and storage          2,500 m                  180/r2                   810        4,860         2,430        8,100     6,480         1,620
Office, lab., amenities                     500 r2                250/m2                    230        1,340           680       2,250      1,575           675
Garage, store, aux. bldgs.                  500 m2                150/m2                    140          810           400       1,350      1,080           270
Effluent treatment                      50 m3/day                 300/m3/day                 --          130           140          270       202            68*
Sub-total                                                                                2,300        10,740         5,140      18,180   14,521           3,659
3.  Utilities
Water wells, pumps, storage tank,   2 x 10 m3/hr                1,500/m3/hr                  60          270           210          540       108           432
chlorinator
Power substation, transformers,
switchgear, controls                  2 x 100 KVA               150/KVA                   60           270           210         540        216           324
Service lines                                --                       107R                  -_            _            110          110        66            44
Crating, insurance, freight                  --                        5%                    --           --            60           60        36            24
Installation                                                          10%                   --            --           130         130        104            26
Slb-total -1                                                                                120          540           720       1,380        530           850
4. Machinery and Equipment
Weighbridge                                20 tons             25,000                        40          230           180          450       135           315*
Grape crushing, pressing             600 tons grapes/day    80,000                         140           720           580       1,440        432         1,008*
Formentation and storage,
stainless steel tanks, valves,                                       3
piping, filters                       200 x 50 m3               170/3                  3,060       15,300        12,240       30,600   12,240         18,360*
Portable pumps, misnl. equip.
office, lab. spares, tools                --               100,000                       180           900           720       1,800        540        1,260*
Crating, insurance, freight                  --                        57,                   __           __         1,710       1,710        510         1,200*
Installation                                 _                        10%                    -_           __        3,600        3,600      2,880           720
Sub-total                                                                                3,420        17,150        19,030      39,600    16,737        22,863
2/
5. Transportation Equipment
Tanker-trucks                          I x 10,000 lt           50,000                        --           --           900          900       270           630*
Flat trucks                            2 x 5  tons             20,000/ea.                    --           -_           720          720       288           432
Pick up                                      1                       180                   180            --            --          180        72           108
Sub-total                                                                                  180            --         1,620       1,800        630         1,170
3/
6. Engineering and Overhead
Organizational expenses                      --                        1%                   590            --           --          590       590            --
Consultants (specs, bids, supervision)  --                             4%                   790          790           790       2,370      1,422           948
Contractors engineering and overhead         --                        5%                   980          990           990       2,960      1.480         1,480
Sub-total                                                                                2,360         1,780         1,780       5,920      3,492         2,428
4/
7.  Import Duties                                  --                       30%                    --            --        6,850        6,850     6,850             --
8.  Technical and Management Services               --                      --                     --            --            --          --         --            --
Total Fixed Investment w/o Contingencies                                                 8,560        30,210        35,140      73,910   42,940         30,970
9.  Physical Contingencies                         --                         5%                  430         1,510        1,760        3,700     2,150         1,550
5/
10.  Working Capital                                 --            Avg. turnover: 3 mo.             --            __       14,400       14,400    14,400             --
Total Investment w/o Price Contingencies                                                 8,990        31,720       51,300       92,010   59,490         32,520
6/
11.  Price Contingencies                            --                       --                    900        6,030        14,160       21,090   13,640          7,450
Total Investment                                                                         9,890        37,750        65,460     1i3,100   73,130         39,970
I/ One plant would be financed in Macedonia.
2/  Trucks would be hired for transporting grapes at harvest.
3/  Gn items 2, 3 and 4.
4/ Import duty items shown with an asterisk.
5/  From Annex  5 Table  19,
6/  Applicable as of second quarter 1977:  Year 1: 10%, year 2: 197, year 3: 27.6%.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Winery
Income and operating Cost Projections
1/
Yield or Number of Units                      Cost or Price                 ------------------  Years   -----------------------
at Full Development                           per Unit 2/                     1-2-3           4              5              6-20
Volume
Wine grapes crushed                                     --                                         --                           --           9000         12000             15000
Wine produced, million lts.                             65%                                        --                           --            5.85         7.80              9.75
Wine (second pressing) million Its.                      5%                                        --                           --            0.45         0.60              0.75
Marc (tons)                                             25%                                        __
Lees (tons)                                              5%                                        __
Work schedule:                                 crushing:  10 wks/yr                                --
holding :  up to 6 mo./yr                          --
Income                                                                                                                         --------------  Din Million  --------------------
Wine sold for blending and bottling                24 - 250 proof                  Din 12/lt. at bottling plant                  --          70.2         93.6             117.0
Wine (second pressing) sold for
distilling                                           bulk                        Din ll/lt. at bottling plant                 --            5.0          6.6               8.3
Marc sold unprocessed                                   bulk                       Din  0.3/kg at by-prod. plant                 --           0.7          0.9               1.1
Lees sold unprocessed                                   bulk                       Din  0.4/kg at by-prod. plant                 --           0.2          0.2               0.3
Total Income                                                                                                                     --          76.1        101.3             126.7
Operating Cost
Direct Costs
Wine grapes purchased                                 18 /20  brix                             Din. 5.5/kg                       --          49.5         66.0              82.5
skilled   10 x 12 mo./yr                        Din 3,000/mo. + 50%
Direct labor                              unskilled   15 x 12 mo./yr)                       Din 2,400/mo. + 50.                               1.9           2.1              2.3
100 x  3 mo./yr)
Purchased power                              100 KWH/l,000 lt.                              Din  0.80/KWH                        --           0.5          0.6               0.8
Miscellaneous materials                                  --                                 Din  0.2/lt                          --           1.7           1.9              2.1
Transportation of grapes to winery                Radius:  50 km                            DinlOO/ton                           --           1.0           1.2               1.5
Transportation of wine and residues
to bottling and by-prod. plants                 Distance:100 km                           Din  0.l/lt                          --           1.0          1.2               1.5
Taxes                                                    __
Sub-total                                                                                                                        --          55.6          73.0             90.7
Overhead Costs
Maintenance Incl. materials                          5 persons                              Din 3,200/mo. + 50%                  --           0.6           0.6               0.6
Administration expenses, incl. insurance                 --                                 Din 100,000/mo.                      --            0.8          1.0               1.2
Technical administrative and supervisory
personnel                                         8 persons                               Din 3,600/mo. + 50%                  --           0.5           0.5              0.5
Management                                           2 persons                              Din 5,500/mo. + 50%                  --            0.2          0.2               0.2
Sub-total                                                                                                                        --            2.1          2.3               2.5
3/
Total Operating Cost                                 65 persons                                    --                            --           57.7         75.3              93.2
Net Operating Surplus                                                                                                            --           18.4         26.0              33.5
1/  Three years would be required for design, bidding and construction, operations would commence in year four.
2/ Prices based on mission's findings.
3/  Working capital first year or operations:  Din 14.6 million assuming an average turnover of three months.                                                                   9 >



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Winery
Cash Flow Projections
(Din. Million)
------------------------------------------------------------------- Years-
1       2       3       4       5        6         7        8        9        10       11       12        13       14      15        16       17        18       19       20
Income
1/                    ------------------------------------------------------------- Din Millions ---------------------------------__- __-________-_-_______ -_______
Borrower's equity                          2.2     7.9   12.8       --       --       --       --
Long term loan -               (Local    4.5   15.3   25,1           --      _        __
(IBRD      2.4    8.2   13,6         --      --       --        --       --       --       --        --       --        --       --      --        _-       __        _        __       _-
Short term loan 31                         0.1     0.7     3.4      --       --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --       --        --      --       --        --       --        --       --
Total sales 4/                              --      --      --   76.1  101.3   126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7  126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7   126.7
Last year's cash balance                    --    0.1      0.1     0.1   16.6        8.9      8.1       5.2      4.3      4.5      6.0      12.5     16.9   .23.4   29.9        36.4      42.9     25.9       4.3      5.8
Total Cash Inflow                          9.1   32.5    54.8   76.2   117.9   135.6    134.8    131.9    131.0   131.2    132.7    139.2    143.6    150.1  156.6    163.1   169.6    152.0    131.0    132.5
Expenditures
5/                                                                                                                                                                           27.0
Investments: Fixed Assets                  9.0   31.7   36.9        --       --       --      2.1        --       --       --        --      2.1        --       --      --        --      2.1     27.5        --       --
Working capital              --      --    14.4       --      --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --        --       --      --        --            --            --
operating Costs                             --      --       --   43.3   75.3       93.2     93.2      93.2     93.2    93.2       93.2     93.2     93.2      93.2   93.2      93.2      93.2     93.2      93.2     93.2
Debt Service
(Local      --       __       _      --    8.0        8.4     9.0      9,5       10.1       --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --       --       --        --
Long term loan principal (IBRD            --      --      --      --    3.9        4.3    4.8        5.3       5.9       --        --       --       -_        __      __        __       __       __        __       __
(Local      --    0,3       1.2    2.7    2.7         2.2     1.7      1.2        0.6       --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --       --       --        --
Long term loan interest  (IBRD                  0.   3   1.2     2.7    2.7       2.2      1.8      1.2        0.7      --        --       --        --       --      --        --       _-        __       __       __
Short term loan principal                 --    0.1      0.7     3.4       --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --        --       --      --        _-       __        __       __       __
Short term loan interest                  --    0.0      0.1     0.4       --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --       --        __      __        __       __        __       __       __
Income Tax 6/                                       --       --    1.5      1.1      1.7      1.7       1.8      1.9      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0     2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0
Dividends distributed                       --       --      --     5.0   15.0    15.0       15.0      15.0     13.6    30.0    25.0        25.0      25.0     25.0   25.0       25.0    20.0       25.0     30.0      30.0
Total Cash Outflow                         9.0   32.4    54.7    59.6  109.0   127.5    129.6    127.6    126.5    125.2    120.2    122.3    120.2    120.2  120.2   120.2   144.3   147.7   125.2   125.2
Cash Balance at Year's End               0.1     0.1     0.1   16.6       8.9      8.1      5.2       4.3      4.5      6.0      12.5     16.9     23.4      29.9   36.4       42.9     25.3       4.3      5.8       7.3
Financial Rate of Return: 29b
Investment Costs + 10%    : 26%
Operating  Costs + 10b   : 22%
Revenue             - 10%      18%
1/ 25% of total investment.
2/ 33% local funds at 6 b interest; 42% IBRD funds at 11% interest, 7 years including 2 years of grace.
3/ 12% of interest.
4/ From Annex 5 Table 19.
5/ From Annex 5 Table 18, project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and transportation equipment in years 7-12-17
including engineering, duties and physical contingencies.
6/ 7% after interest charges and Din 4.9 million depreciation charge.
N) ~



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND ACRICUJLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOS1AVIA
Distribution of Proleot FPpds by Catanory. Republic or Prtoi-o
(in PSI 5000)
Deve lured  efrotou                                                                                Sees -Dorplored RepDona
VoIvodi.                 Croatia                  Serbia                   Sloenia            Bpousi & Rereaaonivo            Kosuvu                  Macadunia                6Ioutauaaru              Proj-ut Tutna
Rank                     BDak                     BRuk                     BRnk                     BDrk                     BDuk                      bRbk                        b                       Dak rk
Tutal Coat   Fiu.o.ni-   Tot-l Coat   Fi-untinR   Tutal Cost  Finan n..    Total Co-t  Fantna   Tutal Cust  Fi.n.ciuR   Tutal Cost  FPluninR    Tutr1 Cout  Fitan-iuR   Tutal CDat  Fi-arnin    Tutal CoSt  Fi-nciu-
Pnisary Prudoutiou-                                                                                                                   200           70          -                         ,7          ,0           --1,4                                  ,0
PintS                            3,571       1,000        2,143         600        7,057        2,200        _2500                                  70 D                                 3,57-1       1,000                                   643        5 5
Vrgatabloa                       3.571       1,000        2,143         600         -           -            -           -            4,643       1,300         3,571       1,000           7         100          1,429         400       18,928        5,300
Viuryarda                        1,786         SGO        2,143         600         -           -            -           -            1,786         500        5,357        1,S00        3,571        1,000        -           _            14,643       4,100
L-ad  Rclaation                  -           _            4,2R7       1,200         -           -              714         200                           -                   -           -            -                        -            5,O00        1,400
Dr  P F                              71,3    1,505       11,071       3,10         7143         2,000        5,714       1,600       105714       31000         7,857       2,200        4,287        1,200        6,428       1,800       58,071       16,400
Cailf Patraing                   3,5S71      1,000        -           -            3,57 1       1,000        -           -3,17 1                  1,000         -           -            -            -            -           -            10,714       3,008
Pig Pattising                    4,287       1,200        -           -            5,357        1,00         -           -            -            --                                                              - _                       9,643       2,700
Sharp DR lup1.snt                -           -            -           -            2 143          600        -           -            2,500         700         -           -            3,571        1,000        1,429         400         9 643       2 700
Broilur Prduction                -           -            -                                           - -                                                       6 -  - -  -  6.071  1,700    6.071 1f700
Sob-Total                    22,143       6 200       21E787    6. 100         26.071       7 300         6.428       1,800    -25714          72D0        22,856        6,400       18 571       52D00         9 286       2.600      152.856       42.800
Auco-I.d..ttiip
Dairy Planta                     -                        1,454         600         1,939         800        1,455         600        2,667        1,100        1,939         800        2,667       .1,100        2,667        1,100       14,788       6,100
Hik Colleotion
Statione 6 Trucks              -           _            9,697       4,000        _     -                   - _                      2,909       1,200           727         300          242          100        -           _            13,575       5,600.
riser Prousaslag                 .           -            -           - -          -                         --                       2,909       1,200         -           -            -            -            1,454          600        4,365       1,800
Proit 4 Vegetble
Prop'.sioL                     6,545       2,700        _-                                    -            1,939         800        4,848       2,000         3,636       1,500         -           _              485          20        17,454       7,200
Cold Stores & r-ding &
Panting Line- fur Froit
6Vsgsblss                        727         300                    _           11,394       4,700                                  _                         S           2,300-  -     -           -                                     22 12    2  1000
Bpoil-p P-onuu                   .                        -            -                                     --                                                 5,076       2,300         -.                                    -5,070                    2,300
Drain DryRR                      3,879       1,600-                                                                                                -            -           -             -           -             -           -            3,879        1,600
Wise Prudutio                    --                                                       -                                                                                               6    --303...AJl  2.600   -- --               ....J48 "         2,D
Rob-Total                     I. 51 Z                    I  600..13.333.11 1i3335                                         i    3 .iA               3        1.S878  4. 900            9,212       3.800        4.606    _1900             32.200
GRAMS TOTAL                 1.,2%           10.800       32.938      10,700       39,404       12,800        9,822       3,200        39,047      12.700       34,734      11,320        27,783       9,000        13,892       4,1500     230,914       75,000
NB.  antk finseuiDg is find at 28% Of the tote1 opat of uobproeJt ieast-ntns in pri-ary pr-dutiun, and 41.25% of th. tontl rout of sobprojott insent-ts in agrotudoucra.
torading CPPPra -Y Pause  light devarti-ou  from thib  paruutaga for ourtain sobrtnegonir.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUrOSLAVIA
Pro  eCt Pi..ncino CaSh Flos State ent
Year beginning Aoril 1
0978-      1979       1          1          1          1          0984       1          1986        1987       0988       1989       1990       1990        1992       TO --TAL
A. 181W Portion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90 191 192 18318                                                                                                                                                            ---  ---
A.l  Loans outstanding tu Subborroers at Stert of Year                              11,625    41,564    70,269        62,865    51,320    38.251    20,882    15,457           8,022      1,500        209        AcordR        to  pifed    75,0a a
A.2  Loans disbursed to Subborrowere during Year                          11,625    31,041    32,334                                                                           41,291                  2i                t fo And agrsifditre    75,000
A.3  Principal Repayments by Subborr-seer  during year                  ____-         j9          ,29   6J%           1150       1,09       1.690A 22A    4,522                           12091        209         inaro, ap aroindpstryg    75,000
A.4  Loans .otetanding to Sbb-or ers at Close of Year                     11 .2 5               70, 29     62865    51,320    38.251    25.2    15.457            10 740       1,500        209                   models, particip-ting hamb
A.4a Average Loans outstanding during Year                                    1      26.595    55,917      66,567    57.093      44,796    32.066    20.670        *22.        3,76         855o    in full frhr                        e         35,745
40Interest Paymento by Subborrosoers during Year (11%  ofA4)              630,_6,1116% 620                                     492       j%.          5  7     ~            4149                      2         etlon   nfulEo63,4
A.6  Net Flow  iron  1to) S bSbob9rruseero  (A 30-o                      (10,9      ( 1        (.4-)                                                        639 ,  J   15289  12,99s J0616 4,93  1,385  221        subborro- er-  by 1990         35,740
.7  CPrittn nt Fee paid to IBRD (0.756) 519                                             359        121                             6,250      6,250      6,250      6,250      6,250      6,200       6,250      6,250      6,250      6,250      75,900
A.9  Erntiarls Rpsynente to  OS(..        eond                                7        ,2 IBRI.A).          6,250    6%,250       4 97460%    2.947                                       2,434   .._922    1_410           8_9_7        384      45,966
A.9  P.tr.ncpt  RPay-.ts to IBRD0               d                            471      _,226    4_824        6,022      5,510      4,997    4_484         3.972      7.40       9,947      2,434       917 2      -7  6     7- 47    6=634         46 965
A4.0 Total Ptlw to (fron) IBRD (A.7+A.8+A.9-A.2)                         (100629)  (28.456)  (27.389)   12 272    11 760    11 247    10.734   10.22                9 0          197      0,684      8.172       7,660      ,144                  4,
A.11 Financing Surplus (Glp) on IBRD Portion   Anu I1 (A 6-A.10)            (g357)    1.44274 835                       2          6 748 2,                          90                       6      (4,261)    (710,2 (951  (7.660   6714)   ( ) 11,20)
4.12                                              C-Cuolatice              2i7l    0,085         5,92       8,374    04,439    20,087    26,349    08,826    29732            2541         0,7       0,20         ,61       (59) 1,2)
B.   Local Portion                                                                                               - -- -- -- --   Din  illion                       --------     ----------to-apor.i
0.1  Loans outstanding to Onbborrnwers at start of ynsr                               341.0   1,104.0    1,742.9   1,507.0   1,100.6         550.7      51S.2       328.3      149.5       45.7         6.2         AccordIng to opprainal
5.2  Loans disbursed to Subborrowern during year                           340.0      812.0      752.0                                                                                                              eu88 138  .  ~   numpiou  asd specifid..
B.3  Principal Repayments by Sobborre                                                  39.0      123.1      232.9      321.4       3          29         22         1          1           3            6 2          in fr 
0.4  Loas.  ootstaoding to borroers st close of year                       741.0 1 1114.0   1.742.    115070   1,195.6            050.7      5111.2     329.3       14.         45a7        6.2                     moes   atciaigb5b
gSa4 Average Loans Outstacding During Year                                 175.0~    727.5   1,_428.1    LA62.0.  1,346.3   1,018.2          70.          3.         3.         976         6.          3.          shoul  have. recoere  pro-
0.5  Interest Faymeoto by Subborrover- during  er(%l.a,TT                              4~3T7      8.7        97.5        80.0       601        4.          64s-16(c  loansr  by fullfro
B.6  Net floe from  (to) Subb .orrossaro  0in3  +       .)729. 3)                                  322 )    33         402.2       396.86 249.3                                     13 1   109.7  41.1                ubborroeer  by 1990
B.7  Federal Funds Borrowed /                                               85.3      203.0      186.0
B.8  Ente est on Federnl pnTs  During Grace Period at 4% L                   1.7        7.5       15.3        15.6        7.1                             54.4       54.4       54.4        54.4       54.4       54.4        54.4       44.6        21.5
B.9  Federal F-ndo Repaid with Interact                                                                        9.7       32.        54.4       54.4       54.4I54.4                         5.4
0.10 Costo.      usdzdLclFns/                                                 .         7.3        14.3       16.3.     13.5       00.2    7__.0          4.4        _2.4        1._.  -______
0.11 Finacn    uou    Pp)o   oa   otIo-Ana                                (248.9) (4)    (8.8)    291.8                 340.3      _331.4     200.2    _090.5        036.3       543_036               (4.0)    (5J4.4)      28746      (44.6)       221.5)
12                                                 - C.ul**l*e            (248.9)   (790.0) (1,174.8)   (883.0)   (534.7)   (203.3)            76.9      267.4      401.7       458.0      444.4      396.4      342.0.                             2
5.15 0160 Portion Finaning  Surpslus (gap)(A.1l)                                                                                               9 ....~. .....t. .~  ...2.. ~ .2.9   ...A.6   .-OJ  (76.7)   (fljA4    (14,3. 1)   (37.9)    10097)   (019.4)
8.1  PartDic l                   ion       1u   /d                         (255.3)   (515.1) .    297.8)    336.0       457.5       452.9      373.1      2351  6.3.26                    (14.0)    (1901.)   (192.3)   -(1             (6.          (21.5)
C.2  Particiostieg  Ounka Potition  NO.11 + B.13)    Cumulative                       _ (770.4) (1.068.2)   (732.2)   (274.7)   __178.2        551.3       786.4      939.0      916.6               __. 580.5    -8.2L       205.1       41.1        19.6
a   Asts,e  that 25% of tote 1 local portion disbursesents (B.2) funded out of Federal Fuodo and repaid on an annuity basis ot 4% interest for 14 years with 3 y ear  gr.
b   Assomes that 25% of total Ioc.l portion  (B.4a) is funded on * nubsidioed basis with o. interest cost to the                             hanho of 4*.
/c   Asoomes surpluses on I5RD portion end Federal Funds are not reinvested and that negative ponitions will be funded by part cip-ting banks idtviduslly.
T This position Re before the flow of priocipal  -m.octo of sub.idized loc.l foods, *dniniotrative coots, costs of bankh  "own  fund, foreign exchange rihsk, snd 1% conmimsioc Cn Voicodjanuks Bsnka.
Note: The rcpaymeot of the IBRD loon (A.8, A.9) is on the basis of equal repyoenots of prioripal.
Loans to subborrovern Are to be repaid (B.3, B.5) on sn *nccity basis, as (ndicatnd in farm  ond agroindcetry models.



ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements /1
(US$'000)
IBRD Fiscal Year                       Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                             at End of Quarter
1978
June 30, 1978                                      500
1979
September 30, 1978                               3,000
December 31, 1978                                7,000
March 31, 1979                                  11,500
June 30, 1979                                  1,000
1980
September 30, 1979                              26,000
December 31, 1979                               34,000
March 31, 1980                                  42,500
June 30, 1980                                   54,000
1981
September 30, 1980                              61,000
December 31, 1980                               68,500
March 31, 1981                                  75,000
/1 Differences with Annex 7 are due to rounding.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Rate of Return of the Project
1.       sssssTThe economic rate of return was calculated on the basis of quanti-
fiable economic costs and benefits generated. Costs and benefits are based
on the representative investment models as described in Annexes 3, 4 and 5,
and were evaluated at shadow prices as discussed below. Training and admin-
istrative expenses were also included in the costs. Results derived from
the analysis are considered conservative since some benefits attributable
to the Project, such as improved resource allocation in the agricultural and
agroindustries sectors because of training and better sub-project appraisal
and supervision, and health benefits to consumers of hygienically processed
food, were deemed non-quantifiable and, therefore, were excluded from the
economic rate of return determination.
2.        The economic rate of return calculations are based on the following
assumptions:
(a) Output Prices. For wheat, maize, wool and tobacco the
Bank's commodity world price projections (in constant 1976
prices) were used as basic data. The development of the
beef prices was assumed to be in accordance with the Bank's
beef price projections (in constant 1976 prices). The
price of milk was reduced by the subsidiy of Din 0.5/liter.
The remaining products have been priced at the prevailing
farmgate prices;
(b) Input Prices. Investment items have been priced at constant
end 1976 prices less import duties levied on import compo-
nents. Prices of feed grains have been projected on the
basis of the development of the Bank's commodity world price
estimates. Prices of replacement cattle have been projected
to change according to the beef price. Other inputs have
been valued at end 1976 farmgate prices, adjusted by taxes
where applicable;
(c) Labor. Hired labor has been valued at the prevailing wage
rates. For investments family labor has been accounted for
at the wage rate for unskilled labor. Family labor has not
been costed as operating expenses because there are unused
labor capacities on private farmers at the pre-Project stage.
It is estimated that about 280 mandays family labor are avail-
able in a typical individual farm of which about 80-100 man-
days are in excess and would not have an opportunity to be
employed without project investments;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(d)  Processing Investments.  Benefits were calculated on the
basis of value added through processing. Benefits due to
reduced losses were added. Calculation of benefits from cold
storage investments has been based on the price difference of
products sold at harvest and off season time and reduction
of losses;
(e) Administrative and Training Costs. Costs have been based
on salaries of additional staff to be hired by the Bank of
Vojvodina and the Participating Banks;
(f) Exchange Rate. The prevailing exchange rate of Din 18 per
US$1 has been used for all calculations.
3.        Based on these assumptions, the Project benefits and costs have
been calculated as shown in the attached table. The overall Project's eco-
nomic rate of return would be about 22%.
The sensitivity analysis shows the following results:
Investment Costs           +10%              20%
Operating Costs            +10%              15%
Benefits                   -10%              12%
4.        The economic rate of return for individual component for fruit and
vegetable, livestock development and agro-industries components are 25%, 23%
and 18% respectively. Sensitivity analysis applied to the individual benefit
and costs streams of these respective components show that they remain viable
(Tables 2, 3 and 4).
5.        The overall economic rate of return indicates that the Project
would result in substantial gains to the economy.



APPRATSAL 0F
A SECO  AGRICULTURAL  1REDIT PRO4CT
YUWOSrAVIA
Econoic Oats of Retort
Total Project
Yea                      1          2          3            4             5            6                         8            9            10           11            12           13          14         15          16         17        18        19         20
----------------              -------------------------------------------- - ----------DI. o, -------_ ___________-- _____-          ____ _ ----------_--------
Project Benefits      271,940    906,586    2,018,481    2,893,958    3,474,467    3,824,502    3,999,636    4,049,861    4,100,001    4,139,673    4,170,681    4,185,657-4,185,657------_ ---__ ------4,185,657
Oneratimg C0.t4       305,594    865,934    1,786,419    2,292,456    2,699,098    2,883,774    2,935,184    2,938,242    2,944,201    2,946,494    2,948,559    2,949,512___---____----__--_--       ----_--_-___2,949,512--_-_--______________-_-_-- 2,949,bl2
Iretmnt-              653,085  1,487,668    1,478,123         .0           .0           .0           8,100       10,500       17,0 0        8,4oo       195,319      373,488      353,764     11,400       .0          .0      168,000   355,200   332,000      .0
Adni.trti-on            7,200      9,000        9,000         5,400 ---_-------------------_,-------------------___------------- -----__------------------__-----------------__-_--------------------------------5,400__5,___---_______________ ------  5,420
__T ______           (693,939)(1,459,016)  (1.255,061)      595,102      7'9.969      935,320    1,050,952    l,095,{19    1,133,400    1,1y9,3r9    1,'e21,403      857,257      8764981  1,219,345  1,230,745  1,230,745  1,062,745   875,345   898,745  1,230,745
O-onos6e Rate of Retort
Base Ce.e                    -22%
Onv.tstat Coste  -10%        -206
oper-tIng Costs   =10%       -15%
Benef.it,          -io%      =22%
og



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRIGI:LTIURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSIAVIA
Reonomic R_te of Return
Private Sector Livesetock Develgooeent
Year          1           2           3           4           S           6           7           8            9          1.          11          12          13           14          15-20
Project Benfits                                                                                           -t2~-                          '900,L-
Pr.ject ,3encflt8             ---------^--------- ---------------- ------------ ----------------------------- Din   00------------------------____-_______________._______________________,__
Cattle                        82,257    320,263    642,937    835,527    863,424    875,804    88t,843    885,006    885,655 .......8................ S85,655.
Cow Milk                 _                26,359      83,000    154,430    175,934    213,679    219 ,744    223,726    22W,553 ........................ 224,553 ............                       ..
Pork                         128,34             0 364,320 581,670......                                                                                                            .. , 5670
Mutton                        27,562   80,112  130,411  142,786 146,831  146,958 .......................................................... 146,958.
Sheep Milk                       -         1,896       5,480       10,848      14,584      17,912 ......................................................... 17,S1..................................
Woot                             -            737       2,214       3,985       4,649       5,240 .........................5................. I......... ...    5,240.
Broilers                       5,502       15,603      24,906 ...............................................                               ................... 24,906..................................
Grain                        _Aj~1)  (20.954)  (41.042) _(5_547) *D,.379) 85.894).                            ......                 .................... (85.894.)
Subtotal                 238,150    78S,696  1.429.576  1,699.605  1.751.619  1,780,275  1,792,379  1.799.524  1,801.000 .......................801,000..................................
Operating Costs
Groin and Seeds                   (20)    (1,780)    (4,961)    (9,432)   (14,249)   (14,819) .          .       .      ....  ....................................    (14,819).
Concentrate Feed              81,803    227,815    380,706    407,214    416,496    422,578    424,239    425,328    428,839 ......................                428,B39.................................
vertilizer                       -          2,761   7,838  13,020  13,847  14,619 .....,,.,.,,,,.. .....  14,619.
Replacemient Azijeals        158,316    451,764    728,738    731,034    731,616    733,288    733,288    734,96D 0.                                   ,     .    734,960.
Machine Service         s          67    2,052    5,577    9,470   10,782   12,004.12,004 ............................
Labor                          3,813      11,846       20,090      21,810        .                                                                                     ...................................10........................... 28
Other                         34.22       88,298    179,957    195,779         99513    199.905    199,669    199,483    199,546..                                         ..................................
Subtotal                 278,799  782756                   1.368.975 1_368,895 1 .37 893,85 1.390,910 1,393,385 1.396,.959 ........................
Investments                  296,278    543,669    505,940           .0          .0          .0           O           .0          ,0          .0        53,147      97,421      90,589         .0            .0
B3sconmi  Fate or Return
Inveetmente Coat6   4-10% =21'%
Cperatiog Costs       +10%  17.2%
Benefits              -10% =10% 



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURJAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSIAVIA
Economic Rate of Return
Priate Sector Fruit and Vegetable Development
Year                   1              2              3               4              5              6               7               8              9               10              11               12              13              14-20
---- --- ----   - ------------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------Di.-00   ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ -------_-_--_-_--- ---_-_  -----___ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
Project Benefits
Cere    Be323                       190            6,6ef,6                       4,0            4,4             49,360 --_----_---_--------_-------- __---------_----------_ -----49,360_----------------__ ---__--_--__-----_--49,360)
Qe  %3,231                          11,900         26,260          42,660         48,4o2         49,342
Industrial Crops     (5,6701       (15,695)       (24,162)       (22,025)        (20,362)       (19,565)- - -                                                       -----------
Vegetables           19,981         63,191        1o8,ooo         121,628        130,167        130,744          131,008 -----------------1--_8-------------_------- ---______ -1131008___--___________________________   131,008
Grapes               (2,635)        (7,415)        (6,515)         13,169         54,241         89,278         109,146-------------------------------------------------- -109,146-         --------------       --------_109,16
Fruit                                 -              -                            31,192         97,568          179,648         222,728        271,392         311,064        342,072         357,048        357,o48            357,048
Fodder Crops            483          1,609          3,022          3,821           44,487 -----------------_= ------------  =--------4,U87
Sob-Total          15,390         53,590        106,605        159,253         247,948        351,827         454,057          497,137        545,801         585,473        616,481         631,457        631,k5'T           631,457
Op r tinfg osts
S    'igo               677          1,995          3,287           3,409_-, ---------------------------9----------------------------------349----------------  ------- 3,49--                             -      ------  3,09
Fertilizer and Maure 2,109           6,585         13,706         20,724          27,786         29,295           27,292          25,588         26,160          26,826         27,611          27,927          27,927            27,927
Plant Protection      4,850         14,289         25,027         28,665          31,349------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 31,349-----------_ ----- --31,349
Mschine and Anial      (218)          (631)         (1,017)--1---------------------------------- --------- -                                                                     (1,017)- ---------------------------------(1,017)
Power, Irrigation
LAbor                   885          2,528          4,o54           5,134          7,140          9,027---------------------------------------------------------- ----------9,027__________________             _-------_  - _--- 9,027
Other                 2,492          7,412         13,687          17,746         23,16          27,426           31L714          33,701          35,514         37,141          38.421         39,058          39,058            39-M
Sub-Total          10,795         32,178         58,744         74,661          91,983         99,489          101,774         102,057        104,442         106,735         108,800        109,753         109,753           109,753
Inrestments         197,607        405,399        400,033               .0          .0 .                                            .0              .0              .0         122,572         226,467         2fl,775              .0
Economic Rate of Return
Base Cae                - 25%
Investments Costs  .10%- 23%                                                                                                                     1
Operating Costs    +10%= 24%
Benefits            -10%. 212%



APPRAISAL OF
A sEcONlD AGRICULTORAL CBED1T PROJECT
YWUOSIAVIA
Economic P te of Return
Agroindostriea Couponent
1i        2             3          4            2            6            7             8            2            10              11           12            13        14        1         16           17         18        19       20
------    ----------    ------------~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --- ----   --- - - - --- - - --   - - -- - -   - - - - - - -- ----------Din O   -- -  ---- ---- ---  ----------  -- - - - - - -- - --- - - - - - - - -- -_- - -          -
Project Benefits      1B,4oo      64,300      482,300    1,035,103    1,474,900    1,692,400    1,753,200 ,---------------------- .--          ---- ---.----------------       --------_-----------------------    ----71,753,200 ------ - --- -  ---___1,753,2OO
Op retig Costs
labor                 3,4oo     11,500       58,300      114,900      149,600      161,900       164,900_      _    _    ---------_-------__----_-------------------------------l------64,900---------------Q--__ __                                         164,900
Other                12 600     42 500      351 400      734 000    1,077,700    ,23  00       1 77 600    1 077.  9       0          - - - - - - ------ ---------------------- ------1    277                                                     --        277 900
Sub-Total          ,Th0        00 e0 5     737y,900    127 021,027,334 13y94                   5 13342,50    T,492,t50                                                                                          1,
Terest-ets            159,200    538,600      572,200         .0        .0            .0             3,100       10,500       17,030        8,400        19,600        49,600       51,400    11,400      .0         .0        168,000   355,200   332,000       .0
Econoic BRate of Return A
Rate Case -8
Tevetsmemi costs      +io%.16%
OpRting Cot           + 5%-i2%
B.-efit.                5%=11%
j PROs ocepoirmt it very sensitive but this is cot seribas, ieoau-   the  pesrating costs mrs    st  11 variable and so a funtion of output.  Consequentl, a dScline in revenue through   decline in output is  -oosipaMie  by a onrrsspemdAtg declie im
operstiug rusts.






t                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRRD 11394
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                 MAC ESA A I                                    I)>t    SE:AD S<riAANV
NFAL      A,IASLCAAS405ANTATA-
RI                                                       VA-RALRY -a
~~~~< Z2AIHIA                                           S                                                                   -,            4                     COTO    * o    A\ 
Y  ____ U    OG O CSNLAVINSAA                                         0  0 C C  PF $4  S0 H4 E0 E                                             IE7  R AP,        41,3
TRANSPORT~~BOUATION 0444445410 AZ0AT0AMA  ISO ACES                                                                                           ''0003  1,.~LA   -N,'~  44S5OVCA  s
PAKOR IC *LAIR RERIRN 5F cHERNOtEU SOILI  9k~   9                                       J        )     -   -LP.AN SACAYf ALAA                -'
ATTLENAI4A5ANCRC
I LI                                    REAL '                                                                                                        WT
_   ANALSURDERCONGTRUCTlaN                                                                 >1;!Si   5    ;,    G;:    i;   </   /NISHEEP    ANDGHOGS  R
4~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~BS IMAOOT               A       E Ri Z E' G                                                          - V' I; N: 5               OORCiACIRECOO~ R V e
GTE  U OO KI2ElE IA w/   f fM))-     RI- TO _i_ _ 
1>5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRJV                                                                                                         55 L7 G A7 _   R I A_i: 






IBRD 3774R
S.lEK L  R    V   E  N   I A       (         V OrJVOD0Aa|3-;
Euir)~~~~~~~ Sisk                                           BEij & ekA!
0~~~~                     . R  0                T, I            A                                                                                                    _ N      : 
s  szadrur                                                                                                                                       M;r |r t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ovSa
Rov-Slei                                                                               38AEV                       ,,/nj                                                               z     .i:& 
Jabl4f!c Qx                     ~                       !                     ' ,ij;g;llptLrBELnG,.A
tr          >  5p1t   uX  ~~Bonto]                      -i            ,        \,                                                     ts_        ~       X\
~~~~~~B0  20 4a I r o   H0 ER Z EG  v  0 V I N A    
Kll~~~~~~~~~~~~emctr     '^"I:E   a.  , .
l  1 X k 1 S_; S ,< . ,Zod,r



