                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2803



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-P112258)



                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 1,010 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                        SOCIEDAD HIPOTECARIA FEDERAL

            WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                       FOR A

        PRIVATE HOUSING FINANCE MARKETS STRENGTHENING PROJECT



                                    June 25, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 25, 2013)

                                              Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                                     13.24 = US$ 1

                                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                                 January 1 – December 31

                                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBVA                  Bank Bilbao Vizcaya
BORHIS                Mortgage-backed securities issued by private entities (Bonos respaldados por
                      hipotecas)
CEDEVIS               Mortgage-backed securities issued by INFONAVIT (Certificados de Vivienda)
CNBV                  National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de
                      Valores)
CONAVI                National Housing Commission (Comisión Nacional de Vivienda)
CPS                   Country Partnership Strategy
CSI                   Credit and Savings Institutions
DPL                   Development Policy Loan
FBS                   Fee-Based Service1
FM                    Financial Management
FOVISSSTE             National Housing Fund for Public Sector Employees (Fondo de Vivienda del
                      Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado)
GoM                   Government of Mexico
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
IADB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC                   International Finance Corporation
IFR                   Interim Financial Report
IMSS                  Mexican Social Security Agency (Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social)
INFONAVIT             Mexican National Housing Fund for Private Sector Employees (Instituto del Fondo
                      Nacional de la Vivienda para los Trabajadores)
ISR                   Implementation Status and Results Report
IT                    Information Technology
KPI                   Key Performance Indicators
LTV                   Loan to Value
MIPF                  Integrated Financial Projection Model (Modelo Integral de Proyección Financiera)
MW                    Minimum Wage
NDP                   National Development Plan
NGO                   Nongovernmental organization
NLTA                  Non-Lending Technical Assistance
NPL                   Non-Performing Loans




1
    FBS are now referred to as Reimbursable Advisory Services
OECD      Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PKS       Programmatic Knowledge Services
PSBR      Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
PRLV      Mexican Promissory notes, short-term securities issued by banks (Pagarés con
          rendimiento liquidable al vencimiento)
RAS       Reimbursable Advisory Service
RMBS      Residential Mortgage-backed Securities
RUV       National Housing Registry (Registro Único de Vivienda)
SHCP      Mexican Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito
          Público)
SHF       Mexican Federal Mortgage Corporation (Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal)
SIL       Sector Investment Loan
SOFOLES   Mexican Special-Purpose Financial Companies (Sociedades Financieras de Objeto
          Limitado)
TA        Technical Assistance
TIIE      Equilibrium interbank interest rate (Tasa de Interés Interbancaria de Equilibrio)
UDI       Mexican Inflation-adjusted unit of account (Unidad de Inversion)




                             Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                           Country Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
                            Sector Manager: Anna Wellenstein
                       Project Team Leader: Angelica Nunez del Campo
                          ICR Team Leader: Angelica Nunez del Campo
                                                MEXICO
                          Private Housing Finance Markets Strengthening Project



                                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
  Annex 5. Stakeholder Consultation and Discussions ................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 31
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 47
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Private Housing
Country:                Mexico                  Project Name:             Finance Markets
                                                                          Strengthening Project
Project ID:             P112258                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-76140
ICR Date:               06/28/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          SOCIEDAD
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 HIPOTECARIA
                                                                          FEDERAL
Original Total
                        USD 1,010.00M           Disbursed Amount:         USD 1,005.47M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 1,005.47M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/11/2008     Effectiveness:          11/25/2008           11/25/2008
Appraisal:            09/22/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/06/2008     Mid-term Review:        02/14/2011           02/24/2011
                                     Closing:                03/30/2012           12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Housing finance                                                       100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other Financial Sector Development                                     67                  70
Urban planning and housing policy                                      16                  15
Urban services and housing for the poor                                17                  15

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Anna Wellenstein                     Marcelo Giugale
Project Team Leader:       Angelica Nunez del Campo             David Rosenblatt
ICR Team Leader:           Angelica Nunez del Campo
ICR Primary Author:        Angelica Nunez del Campo


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project is: (a) to strengthen the financial capacity of SHF to
develop and consolidate markets for housing finance and to expand access to lower
income groups over the medium-term; and (b) to improve SHF's technical capacity to
expand access to lower income groups over the medium-term.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                  ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally     Actual Value
                                             Values (from          Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval             Target      Completion or
                                              documents)            Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of housing solutions delivered per year
Value
quantitative or 750,000                   1,000,000                           1,001,212
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                  12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target fully achieved every year of the project's life
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Total number of Micro-credits supported by SHF within the period
Value
(quantitative     73,903                    84,000                            101,257
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                04/30/2009                        01/31/2009
Comments
                  These indicators were designed as short term indicators associated to component
(incl. %
                  1. Fully achieved prior to the second large disbursement of US$500 million.
achievement)
                  Percentage that number of mortgages and Micro-credits supported by SHF to
Indicator 2 :     households earning up to 6MW represents of total number of Mortgages and
                  Micro-credits
Value
(quantitative     74%                       76%                               79%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                04/30/2009                        01/31/2009
Comments
                  These indicators were designed as short term indicators associated to component
(incl. %
                  1. Fully achieved prior to the second large disbursement of US$500 million.
achievement)
                  Total value of new Mortgages (includes primary and secondary market) plus
Indicator 3 :
                  total value of new Micro-credits and Liquidity Lines supported during the period
Value
(quantitative     20,700                    23,000                            34,961
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                  04/30/2009                       01/31/2009
Comments          These indicators were designed as short term indicators associated to component
(incl. %          1. Fully achieved prior to the second large disbursement of US$500 million.



                                                  iii
achievement)
                  Percentage of mortgage loans to households earning between 1 -6 MW from total
Indicator 4 :
                  number of loans
Value
(quantitative     10%                         50%                           25%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target not met
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Percentage of ST debt as a share of total liabilities
Value
(quantitative     30%                         25-30%                        21%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                    09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target met
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Percentage of total BORHIS outstanding held by SHF
Value
(quantitative     25                          21                            40
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target not met
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Number of mortgage loans to informal sector workers
Value
(quantitative     3,500                       10,000                        11,098
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target met
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Total number of new mortgage loans
Value
(quantitative     16,342                      50,000                        24,768
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target not met
achievement)
                  Number of additional financial intermediaries working with SHF funding and/or
Indicator 9 :
                  products
Value
(quantitative   0                             14                            14
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                      12/31/2012                    12/31/2012


                                                    iv
Comments
                  Out of the 14 new intermediaries approved to disburse SHF funding only 10 have
(incl. %
                  actually begun operating SHF funds.
achievement)
                  Percentage of the amount of new lending to households earning between 1-6
Indicator 10 :
                  MW from total amount of lending
Value
(quantitative     5%                         25%                                14%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                 12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
                  Baseline refers to % of amount of lending to target beneficiaries.
(incl. %
                  Target not met
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/18/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        500.00
  2     06/26/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1000.00
  3     12/22/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1000.00
  4     05/18/2010           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1000.00
  5     01/19/2011           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1002.45
                              Moderately              Moderately
  6     08/13/2011                                                                      1002.45
                            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  7     12/21/2011       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                1002.45
  8     07/10/2012       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                1002.45
  9     01/29/2013       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                1002.95


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                   v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       At the time of appraisal Mexico had experienced a period of moderate macroeconomic
growth and rapid expansion of the housing sector. Mexico’s GDP growth averaged 3.8 percent during
2004-2007, and overall headcount poverty declined from 50 percent in 2002 to 43 percent in 2006. In
fact, the construction industry outperformed overall economic growth over the past few years, largely due
to the strong surge observed in home building, the GDP of the construction industry expanded at an
annual average rate of 4.7 percent over the 2004-2007 period, generating a positive impact in the overall
economic performance through jobs and wealth creation. A rapid increase in the availability of mortgage
finance had been a key element in the development of the housing sector. The total mortgage portfolio
nearly doubled between 2000 and 2007. In fact, 2007 was a peak year for the sector with 1,225,435
housing solutions delivered; compared to an average of 750,000 per year between 2000 and 2005.2 Sector
reform and demographic fundamentals were at the root of the housing sector expansion, and although
prices had increased slightly, they remained below pre-1994 levels in real terms, suggesting that there was
still room for healthy growth.3

2.       Considerable uncertainty surrounded the global financial crisis but the overall economy
and the housing sector were deemed well-prepared to cope with financial instability. The
Government of Mexico (GoM) responded quickly to the signs of economic downturn; GDP growth
estimates for the second half of 2008 were reduced from 2.8% to 2.0% and a lower target of 1.8% was set
for 2009. A series of immediate counter-cyclical measures across sectors were introduced to address the
impact over the most vulnerable groups. 4 In general, the unfolding sub-prime crisis in the US was
expected to have manageable effects over the economy and the Mexican housing finance market, as the
latter was considered to be relatively safe given its small market share, stricter origination rules, stringent
structuring standards for mortgages and for residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) and tighter
regulatory scheme. Only the sustainability of the Special-Purpose Financial Entities (Sociedades
Financieras de Objeto Limitado, SOFOLES) business model raised some concerns.5

3.       Irrespective of the financial crisis, significant challenges remained in the housing sector.
First, there was a need to develop deeper housing finance markets, with higher private sector
participation. Despite progress made, the outstanding mortgage portfolio in 2008 was only 9.2 percent of
GDP, much smaller than in other emerging markets such as Chile (14 percent) or Malaysia (36 percent)
and far smaller than the 50 to 100 percent found in developed economies. The sector was dominated by




2
  The term ‘housing solution’ was adopted as the main indicator in the PAD. Used by the Government of Mexico for
monitoring and reporting, it includes all loans (long and short-term) and subsidies provided by all private and public
entities for home acquisition or improvement in a given period.
3
  The World Bank supported reforms in the housing sector in Mexico through a series of DPL and TAL loans
between 2005 and 2009.
4
   Including: (i) activation of a rules-based exchange rate intervention mechanism, (ii) proposing an expansion of
public expenditure in infrastructure, and (iii) increasing in the amount for conditional cash transfers
5
  SOFOLs are specialized financial intermediaries that grant loans. For the purpose of this document we refer only to
those dedicated to granting construction and mortgage loans to housing developers and individuals respectively. At
the time of appraisal, their market share was small (peaking at 13% in 20055) but their role was considered strategic
as they served non-affiliated population (i.e. not covered by the public provident funds) and of a lower income
profile than Banks.




                                                                                                                    1
public institutions; with the provident funds6 holding a 65% market share. Second, a large portion of the
population remained unaddressed. The housing deficit was estimated at 6 million units; with 650,000
additional units needed annually to address new formation alone. Around 65% of total demand came from
households earning less than 4 minimum wages (MW), yet almost all mortgages were being made to
households earning 6 MW or more and employed in the formal sector.

4.      The Federal Mortgage Corporation (Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, SHF); Mexico’s second-tier
housing development bank launched its new Strategic Plan early in 2008 to help address these
challenges.7 The new plan reinforced two main roles for the institution: (i) stabilization and development
of the secondary market, and (ii) increasing access to finance for households earning less than US$900
per month. For the first role, SHF was seen as the best entity to provide government-sponsored liquidity
support to the market for residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) on a temporary and cyclical
basis. SHF could reprise its role in providing partial credit guarantees to RMBS issues without distorting
or dominating markets. For the second role, SHF planned to build on its successful track record of
expanding lending through SOFOLES but now targeting more grassroots credit and savings institutions
(CSIs) with large client bases among the low income. Under the new strategy, SHF would continue to
support SOFOLES and facilitate their continuing evolution.8

5.       To fulfill its new strategic plan, SHF requested IBRD support to strengthen its balance
sheet by reducing the mismatch between the asset and liability maturities. SHF’s balance sheet on
the asset side included mostly credit lines for mortgage loans and RMBS paper; with average remaining
maturities of 20 and 25 years respectively9. On the liability side, a large portion of the debt was held in
short term (less than 12 months) promissory notes (Pagarés con rendimiento liquidable al vencimiento,
PRLVs) rolled over monthly. Overall, at the time of appraisal, the average weighted time to maturity for
assets was 18.1 years compared to 8.7 years for liabilities. 10 The buildup of short-term debt was a
proactive response to short term and longer term market imperfections in Mexico. Even though SHF
borrows at government rates, in local markets it was not able to find long term peso funding that had an
embedded call structure to match that of its assets. Were SHF to borrow long term in pesos to match the
contractual maturity of its peso assets, it would have faced market risk should the RMBS or loans to
intermediaries prepay more quickly than expected. This lack of borrowing choices resulted from the
underdeveloped Mexican corporate debt and derivatives markets. This mismatch was considered risky for
SHF as an institution during a crisis. Restructuring short term debt would allow SHF to support market




6
   Mexico has two major public-sector housing provident funds: the National Housing Fund for Private Sector
Employees, INFONAVIT and the National Housing Fund for Public Sector Employees, FOVISSSTE.
7
  Created in 2001 with a mandate to expand private housing finance markets, SHF is a second tier development bank
fully owned by the Ministry of Finance. SHF’s major lending activity is the extension of long-maturity credits to
specialized financial intermediaries that grant mortgages. To fund these credits, SHF issues long term debt with the
backing of the Mexican government. SHF also provides guarantees for short term bank lines of credit to
construction contractors to finance house construction. All of SHF’s credits are subject to their origination criteria
and standards and area guaranteed by the loans made by the financial intermediaries to the individuals.
8
  Over the medium term, the crisis was expected to trigger market consolidation between SOFOLES and Banks and
hence SOFOLES were expected to reduce their dependency on SHF lending.
9
  SHF also provides loans denominated in UDI – the inflation indexed currency. For these average maturity was 22
years. For RMBS effective maturities are shorter due to frequent prepayments – some driven by consumer
prepayments but others driven by financial intermediaries’ issuance of RMBSs
10
   Refers to contractual time left -- not accounting for possible prepayments.




                                                                                                                    2
consolidation during turbulent financial conditions in international markets and to implement its medium
term objective of improving access to affordable mortgages for lower income households.11

6.      The World Bank assessed the project as a high-relevance loan aligning with SHF’s strategy,
the National Development Plan, and IBRD objectives in Mexico, and developed a framework that
would allow the structuring of this operation as an investment project. The eligible expenditures,
against which the Bank would disburse, consisted of the payment of SHF short-term debt and substitution
of IBRD long-term debt in its place. This restructuring of SHF's debt profile would strengthen Mexican
housing finance markets by enabling SHF to, inter alia; provide more second-tier support for the issuance
of mortgages in Mexico, with a particular emphasis on supporting the issuance of mortgages for the
under-served poorer segments of the population, which would constitute a productive purpose of the loan.

7.      The PAD identified a Development Policy Loan (DPL) as best suited to respond to SHF’s
request, yet the operation was structured as an investment operation since DPLs are not allowed
for State enterprises and given SHF’s request to be the direct borrower of the operation.12 During
project preparation there was substantial discussion within the Bank regarding the adequacy of
recognizing cancellation of short term debt (and its substitution with IBRD long-term debt) as an eligible
expenditure against which the Bank could disburse. Given its size and sector, the project was discussed at
Operational Committee level. It was agreed that, debt cancellation was deemed acceptable as the eligible
expenditure although it was deemed not to have a productive purpose in itself. For this reason, the project
included a set of short term indicators linked to the disbursement of the debt restructuring component.
These indicators were included to reflect the link between the eligible expenditure (the cancelled short
term debt) and the productive purpose of the debt restructuring; namely an expansion of lending for
under-served lower-income households.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.     The main objective of the project was: (a) to strengthen the financial capacity of SHF to develop
and consolidate markets for housing finance and to expand access to lower income groups over the
medium-term; and (b) to improve SHF's technical capacity to expand access to lower income groups over
the medium-term.

9.        Three sets of indicators were included in the project design:
     (i)     Higher-order Outcome Indicator. Designed to capture overall sector performance to which
             SHF was expected to contribute;
     (ii)    Key Performance Indicators or Short Term Indicators (both terms are used interchangeably
             in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)). These indicators were designed as short term
             targets linked to the disbursement of the debt restructuring component. This component was
             expected be fully disbursed in a period of 6 months after approval through two large




11
   SHF’s original request was for US$3.5 billion. The Bank approved the project in November 6, 2008 and on
November 26, 2009 the IADB approved a US$2.5 billion loan to SHF “to promote liquidity and stability to the
Mexican primary and secondary mortgage markets.?
12
   “The proposed project is a sector investment loan (SIL) for $1.01 billion with an expected implementation period
of approximately three-and-a-half years ……Since Bank policy does not allow DPLs to state enterprises, and in this
case to SHF, and in view of the country's preference for the investment instrument, the Bank developed a framework
that would allow the structuring of this operation as an investment project?.




                                                                                                                 3
               disbursements of approximately US$500 million each. Compliance with these targets was
               included as a covenant in the Loan Agreement; and
      (iii)    Monitoring Indicators. Designed to be used as part of project supervision and to capture
               changes in access to housing finance for the lower income households.

10.    This section discusses indicators (i) and (ii). Monitoring indicators are discussed in detail in the
assessment of outcome section. Annex 2 includes data on all indicators for the life of the project.

                                         Table 1. Higher-order Outcome Indicator13

                              Baseline       Target                                  Actual
                               (2007)                      2009          2010             2011       2012
Number of housing
solutions per year           750,000      1,000,000        1,128,617     1,075,366       1,030,270   1,001,212

11.     The short term indicators are presented in Table 2 below. The first large disbursement was linked
to the approval of SHF’s Board of the short term policy. The projected values of the mid-term indicators
(Column B) had to be met prior to a second disbursement. These indicators were to be measured as
cumulative starting one year before. If Column B targets were not met, then only an advance would be
made proportional to the degree of compliance. The remainder would be set aside and disbursed at the
end of Component 1 only if the Column C targets were met. The parameters of the short term debt policy
approved by the Board were: up to 20 percent of short term debt to total liabilities for normal times and
up to 35 percent during “exceptional times?, to be determined by the asset-liability committee.

                                  Table 2. Short Term Key Performance Indicators

                          Indicator                                (A)                 (B)                  (C)
                                                             Baseline (July 1,      Mid-term              Target
                                                               2007 through      indicators (2nd        (indicative
                                                              June 30, 2008)      disbursement)            value)
     Total number of Micro-credits supported by SHF               73,903              80,000              84,000
     within the period
     Percentage that (a) number of Mortgages supported             74%                  75%               76%
     by SHF during the period to households earning up
     to 6MW plus Micro-credits supported by SHF
     during the period represents of (b) total number of
     Mortgages plus Micro-credits supported by SHF
     during the period
     Total value of new Mortgages (includes loans              MX$20,700             MX$22,000          MX$23,000
     supported in the primary and secondary market)             million               million            million
     plus total value of new Micro-credits and Liquidity
     Lines supported during the period

     Fiduciary: Verification of use of IBRD funds for                                                      
     debt restructuring
     Financial: Approval of SHF’s new short-term debt                     Prior to Loan Effectiveness
     policy by its Board




13
  Term used by National Housing Commission which includes credits and subsidies for acquisition of new or used
housing, housing improvement or self-construction




                                                                                                                      4
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

12.      The PDOs and indicators remained unchanged over the life of the project

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

13.      The direct beneficiary of the loan was the SHF. Indirect beneficiaries include the financial sector
institutions targeting low income segments and the borrowers of mortgages or housing improvement,
microfinance or self-improvement products.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

14.      Component 1: Debt restructuring (US$1,000 million). This component supported the
restructure of SHF’s short-term debt, in order to provide SHF with the financial capacity to implement its
2008 strategy.

15.       Component 2: Technical Assistance ($7.475 million).14 This component included the financing
of technical assistance for the implementation of SHF’s new strategic plan 2008-2012 focused on
expanding housing finance to low income and informally employed population. Three main areas for
technical assistance were identified linked to priorities in the strategic plan. These are outlined below. The
full list of activities envisaged (and the final list of what was financed under the loan) is included in
Annex 2.

      1. Development of new business lines and strategies, the related internal re-engineering of SHF
         procedures and back-office risk assessment and management systems, including changes to the
         mechanism for RMBS market support. The new business lines would be focused on how to
         improve access to housing finance for lower income groups.
      2. Implementation of data collection systems on the mortgage and broader housing finance sector,
         and monitoring and evaluation systems for SHF administered programs.
      3. Development of instruments and capacity building to strengthen existing credit and savings
         institutions and NGO lenders to become more effective housing finance providers. This capacity
         building is critical for improving housing finance for lower income groups.

1.6 Revised Components

16.      No components of the loan were revised over the life of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes

17.    In March of 2012, the closing date of the loan was extended from June 30, 2012 to December 31,
2012 to provide additional time to implement recently introduced products targeting low-income
households through new intermediaries.




14
   The difference between the amounts per component and the total loan amount is the front end fee; which was
financed through the loan.




                                                                                                            5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

18.     The Mexican Economy was severely impacted by the global economic downturn in 2008-09.
Annual economic growth decelerated substantially as the economy entered into a recession towards the
second half of 2008, leading to a limited GDP growth of 1.2 percent that year and a sharp contraction of
-6.0 percent in 2009. In the real sector, between October 2008 and February 2009 alone, the number of
formal workers registered at the Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS) fell from 14.6 to 13.8
million people. By mid-2009, unemployment had reached 6%; the highest in a decade. Remittances,
which are Mexico’s second-largest source of foreign currency after oil and an important source of income
primarily for low and middle-income households, dropped by 16% in 2009 alone.15 More workers became
informal and unsalaried during the crisis, and by 2012, 39.3% of the workforce was in the informal sector
and up to 45.3% lacked affiliation to health programs.16

19.      In response to these challenges, the Mexican authorities continued to implement counter-
cyclical fiscal stimulus policies to mitigate the impact of the external demand shock on the domestic
economy. Fiscal discipline and strong fiscal policy frameworks, including the establishment of
stabilization funds and the acquisition of oil price hedges, provided the authorities with some fiscal space
to conduct countercyclical policy without jeopardizing long-term sustainability. Amongst, others, the
fiscal stimulus policies adopted included additional public investment in infrastructure for 2009
(including budget increases for the main up-front housing subsidy program, as well as employment
programs, and an expansion of development banks’ (including the public provident funds) credit
programs. The crisis affected the project in two important ways. First, continued liquidity constraints
dramatically reduced funding for housing developers and mortgage lenders, affecting their ability to
complete on-going housing projects or to continue funding mortgages.17 This was particularly acute for
funding through RMBS; with no private sector issuances since late 2008. Institutional investors actively
sought to reduce their tenure of RMBS. As early as January 2009, the Bank’s supervision mission already
identified the need for SHF to boost support through liquidity lines and purchase RMBS to stabilize the
market, prior to the expansion of lending for the under-served poorer segments. Stabilizing the market is a
necessary condition for the expansion to lower income segments, as the latter requires the commitment of
long term funding in riskier segments. SHF provided USD 254 million in liquidity lines and RMBS
purchases between December 2008 and May 2009. By mid-2009 it became clear that even with SHF
support, SOFOLES would be hit the hardest. Metrofinanciera was the first SOFOL to declare default on
August 13, 2009, followed by Credito y Casa on January 4th of 2010 and Su Casita in October of 201018.
Metrofinanciera and Su Casita alone represented more than a third of SHF’s lending portfolio in 2008. In
a nutshell, when a SOFOL that has received a loan from SHF defaults, SHF executes the guarantee and
recovers the underlying loan portfolio. By the date of project’s closing, SHF had received a total of
US$1.5 billion of recovered loan portfolios from SOFOLES19. Overall, out of the 60 SOFOLES operating




15
   Villareal, M. Angeles. Mexican Economy After the Global Financial Crisis. US Congressional Research Service
705700. 2011; with data from Inter-American Development Bank
16
   OECD 2012. https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/10067.
17
   A typical housing development project cycle is 18-24 months
18
   The case of Metrofinanciera is unique. Apart from facing tighter market conditions, and higher levels of non-
performing loans it involves mal-practice in the use of fund. The case is still being tried in Court.
19
   Includes only UDI-denominated portfolio (accounts for 80% of total portfolio). As a reference, SHF’s total assets
account for US$5.8 billion. A recovered portfolio from a failing SOFOL has two important financial “advantages?
for SHF. First, reserve requirements are lower for mortgage loans than for loans to financial intermediaries. Second,
the financial margin is higher, since SHF recovers the loans at the final intermediary rate, rather than the rate
originally charged to the intermediaries.




                                                                                                                   6
in 2006 (including mortgage and commercial SOFOLES), only 16 remained by the end of 2012. Second,
the rise in unemployment translated into an increase in non-performing loans (NPLs). NPLs rose for the
mortgage lending sector as a whole from 3% in 2007 to nearly 6% in late 2011.20 With a higher-risk
clientele, SOFOLES were particularly affected, and SOFOLES NPL rates more than tripled during the
first years of the crisis, from a relatively low 4.3% average for 2007-2008 to 14.5% for mortgage lending
between 2010 and 2011.21  
 
20.      The Mexican economy began a solid-seeming recovery in 2010. A rapid turnaround of real
GDP yielded 5.5 percent growth 2010, which has been followed a two additional years of above potential
output growth. By the end of 2012 the output gap created by the sharp downturn of economic activity in
2009 was estimated to be closed. For the housing sector, despite the crisis, the target of one million
annual housing solutions established by the GoM was met each year during the life of the project.
Looking more closely, the main impact of the crisis seems to be an increased predominance of the public
sector in the housing finance market: the provident funds increased their market share to 85% by 2012.
The public sector funds, institutions and subsidies compensated for the sharp reduction of loans issued by
private-sector institutions, whose market share plummeted by 43% between 2007 and 2011 from 17 to 11
percent.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry (QAE)

21.     The project addressed a relevant issue that aligned with Government priorities and was
structured with an innovative design. The PDO aligned with the World Bank’s country partnership
strategy, the priorities of the Government of Mexico, and SHF’s strategic plan. The operation is a good
example of rapid response by the Bank to a Government request (the loan was requested in May and
prepared and approved by November of 2009) in a crisis context. This responsiveness was possible in part
due to the excellent track record of SHF as implementing agency of previous Bank operations as well as
from the continuous engagement of the Bank in the housing sector in Mexico. Although formally
designed a Sector Investment Loan (SIL), the loan included a large (US$1 billion), component understood
to be implemented de facto as a DPL; with a prior condition (approval of a short term debt policy by
SHF’s board), identified triggers for a second “tranche? (short-term indicators) and an anticipated quick
disbursement (within a six month period). The design was innovative in so far as it recognized the
cancellation of short term debt as an eligible expenditure.

22.      The design had inherent weakness and risks, particularly given the market turbulence. The
PDO attempted to combine stabilization and down market objectives. The underlying assumption guiding
the selection of the indicators and targets was that “restructuring of SHF's debt profile would strengthen
Mexican housing finance markets by enabling SHF to, inter alia, provide more second-tier support for the
issuance of mortgages in Mexico, with a particular emphasis on supporting the issuance of mortgages for
the under-served, poorer segments of the population, which would constitute a productive purpose of the
loan?. This assumption carried inherent risks. First, it failed to recognize the strengthening of the balance
sheet (from the debt restructuring) as a productive purpose in itself. As a result, the loan design opted for
key performance indicators to provide the link to a productive purpose (i.e. increase in lending). This link
is not necessarily straightforward; actually increasing lending at the time of market turbulence can
increase the potential for credit risk for the institution; thereby make it weaker rather than stronger.
Second, the assumption underestimates the challenges involved in developing and implementing financial



20
  Banco de México, HOFINET 2013.
21
  Berrospide, José, Renata Herrerías, Fabrizio López Gallo, and Ana Mier y Terán. "The Non-Bank Credit Crunch
in Mexico: Rise and Fall of an Industry." (2012).




                                                                                                                7
products for low income households in a sustainable way. Moving housing finance down-market requires
the alignment of policies and institutions beyond the control of SHF, such as subsidy and land policies.

23.      Concentrated and rapid front-end disbursement helped the stabilization objectives, but
weakened the project’s ability to leverage reform to expand access to housing for the lower income
segments. The project was designed to be fully disbursed in the first six months. This allowed timely
strengthening of SHF in the early months of the financial crisis, which in turn enabled market
stabilization; however it left few tools for the Bank to leverage change over the next three years of the
loan for the down market objectives.

24.      The potential risks to the operation were examined and identified comprehensively, but the
analysis had several shortcomings. The analysis underestimated the depth and implications of the global
financial crisis. In hindsight, this appears to have been a common misconception even within
sophisticated financial institutions in developed countries. It can be said that the magnitude of the crisis
and its consequences was unforeseen in a generalized way. The analysis also overestimated the
willingness of new intermediaries to provide long term loans to lower income segments and included only
very limited mitigation measures for increased credit risk –which could result of SHF moving into a
riskier segment precisely at a time when market participants – with whom SHF is supposed to work with
– are pulling out. The project did not anticipate the risk of higher rates of non-performing loans (NPLs) as
a result of the economic crisis nor it anticipate its devastating effect over the SOFOLES sector when
combined with liquidity shortages.

2.2 Implementation.

25.      Project implementation varied substantially by component. As designed, the first large
disbursement under Component 1 (US$500 million) occurred immediately after effectiveness. The Bank
conducted a review on January 2009 and confirmed adequate use of funds and compliance with the short
term target indicators associated to the second large disbursement. In contrast, many of the planned
activities under Component 2 – designed to help SHF to move down-market – were delayed, some
cancelled and others were carried out under the Third Fee-Based Service (FBS) Agreement between the
Bank and SHF (2010-2011).22 These delays and the use of alternative sources of funding explain the long
periods without disbursement seen over the life of the loan. The mid-term review, conducted in February
of 2011, highlighted these issues in detail and recognized that until then SHF had been fully engaged in
supporting stabilization of the SOFOLES industry by settling and coordinating the bankruptcies and
restructuring plans. After the mid-term review the project’s rating was downgraded to Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

26.     After the mid-term review, the Bank considered restructuring the project to align the
targets to more feasible levels. It had become clear that the financial crisis had substantially altered the
project context and had captured most of SHF’s attention since late 2008. As a result, it was unlikely that
the project would meet the indicators related to moving down-market. Since the project was fully
disbursed, the decision was made not to restructure the project.




22
   The Fee-Based Service Agreement carried out relevant analytical pieces to support the development or
improvement of financial products for low income household, however it could not support implementation of such
products.




                                                                                                             8
27.      Implementation of Component 2 only picked up in late 2011. Only then did SHF begin to
focus in earnest on preparing the ground to implement down-market initiatives. It developed or
restructured products that targeted lower-income and/or informally employed households. These included
a new product with a mix of guarantees and insurance for loans to lower-income non-affiliated workers
(Crediferente), and the amendment of its micro-lending procedures to allow for the collateralization of
loan pools to increase capacity. An important signal of SHF’s commitment was the budget and staff
dedicated to the design of new products for low income households; the team increased from 4 to 11.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.      The monitoring and evaluation framework was comprehensive, and adequately supported
the supervision of a complex operation, but had shortcomings. The PDO-level outcome indicator used
by the project was the Government’s sector indicator for overall sector performance. The three key
performance indicators (KPIs) associated with Component 1 captured the intended outcome of the debt
restructuring. Although intended as short term disbursement indicators (until full disbursement of
Component 1, which occurred in early 2009) the KPIs were monitored throughout the life of the project
and became useful metrics to understand the dynamics of the project and sector over the medium term.
The evaluation framework included 12 additional general monitoring indicators to follow shifts in lending
volumes overall and to lower income segments as well as SHF’s efforts to act as market maker for the
RMBS and diversify distribution channels (Annex 2). Most indicators were tracked regularly during
supervision missions and discussed in detail through the aide memoires. The main shortcoming of the
monitoring and evaluation framework is related to the weak link between the debt restructuring and the
indicators to track the productive purpose of the loan (discussed in Section 2.1). Additional shortcomings
include the lack of additional indicators that could have more comprehensively measured SHF’s financial
strength beyond the percentage of short term debt; the somewhat complex methodology established to
report the short-term indicators, the large number of indicators and some minor differences in the target
values between project documents or sections of project documents.23

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

29.     The project did not trigger any World Bank environmental or social safeguard policy.

30.      Fiduciary and procurement arrangements were deemed adequate throughout the life of the
project. Financial management arrangements for accounting, budgeting, flow of funds, internal control
and financial reporting were adequate throughout the life of the project and provided reasonable assurance
that loan proceeds were used for the intended purposes. Minor shortcomings in FM were identified but
were considered negligible as none prevented the timely and reliable provision of information required to
manage and monitor the implementation of the project. Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were prepared
and delivered in a timely manner and all ISRs reported full compliance with World Bank guidelines on
fiduciary issues. All audit reports were prepared in accordance with IBRD standards and deemed
satisfactory. Similarly, procurement arrangements were adequate throughout the project life. One specific
investment became the subject of a controversy and was highlighted by the Borrower during preparation
of this ICR. A large (US$ 10 million) contract for the outsourcing of IT services, originally planned to be
partially financed by the IBRD under Component 2, could not be financed under the loan. SHF’s
requirement that the back-up server be physically installed within the Mexican territory for security



23
  Data was provided as 12-month average for each variable to reduce the risk of seasonality, since for example there
mortgages always peak in the last quarter of each year. This however makes it difficult to separate the difference
between one data point and the next.




                                                                                                                  9
reasons was deemed incompatible with the World Bank’s procurement guidelines. This led to the
cancellation of US$3.5 million from the loan proceeds at the time of project closing.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

31.      While a direct follow-up operation is not envisaged, World Bank engagement on the housing and
urban sector in Mexico will continue through an upcoming Reimbursable Advisory Service (RAS)
contract with SHF that is expected to start in mid-2013. Drawing on the technical engagement, the RAS
will deliver a strategic review of the housing sector for SHF and the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit (SHCP), and will include a review of the subsidy program, an analysis of the institutional
framework with recommendations for policy reform and a series of targeted recommendations to increase
the dynamism of the secondary market, an analysis of the financial instruments for construction finance
and recommendations to foster rental markets. The RAS is part of a proposed Programmatic and
Knowledge Services (PKS) platform with the GoM to support a comprehensive and cross-agency strategy
on urban issues with a focus on equitable access to housing, services and transport and sustainable and
efficient urban growth.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

32.     The project’s objective was highly relevant. At the time of appraisal, Mexico had a large
housing deficit, half of which corresponded to low income households. At the initial stages of the
financial crisis, the Government recognized the need to strengthen SHF. As a public sector institution
with the mandate to develop housing finance markets, SHF was seen as having high potential to play a
key role in market stabilization in the short term and increasing access to lower income segments in the
medium term. The PDO was consistent with the National Development Plan and with the National
Housing Plan (2007) as well as the SHF’s Strategic Plan (2008), and complemented other World Bank
and IFC activities.

33.      The project design was relevant in so far at is responded to the Borrower’s request for a
quick disbursing loan but had important drawbacks. Although better suited for a DPL the operation
was structured as an investment loan. The eligible expenditure was the cancellation of short term debt but
it was not considered to have an inherent productive purpose. This forced the design to link disbursements
to increased lending in a period of market turbulence, which in turn increased the potential for higher
credit risk for SHF. Although impacts were underestimated for some, risks and mitigating factors were
satisfactorily recognized.

34.      Relevance of implementation varied by component. Implementation of Component 1 was
extremely relevant. It allowed SHF to inject liquidity into the sector as other funding sources pulled out.
In addition to the government’s countercyclical policy, it prevented a slowdown of the housing market in
the aftermath of the economic crisis. Implementation of Component 2 was less timely. Significant delays
meant that by the time new products were designed or existing ones reformed, insufficient time remained
in project implementation, even with the extension, to show in the short term significant results on the
ground.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

35.     The purpose of this section is to assess to what extent the project was able to:
         a. Strengthen the financial capacity of SHF, as measured by asset-liability maturity match.




                                                                                                        10
           b. Transform such strengthened financial capacity into housing finance market consolidation
              and development with gradual expansion towards the lower income groups, as measured by
              increased lending, volume of lending to target beneficiaries, number of new financial
              intermediaries.
           c. Improve the technical capacity of SHF to move down-market, as measured by new/reformed
              financial products for low income beneficiaries, strengthened ability to engage and manage
              new intermediaries

36.     The project successfully strengthened SHF’s financial position. As an effectiveness condition,
SHF’s Board approved a short term debt policy which continues to guide asset-liability management. The
high percentage of short term debt ratio which was hampering SHF’s ability to fulfill its mandate
decreased from 49.34% in October 2008 to 15% in December 2009. This indicator was maintained within
the ranges established by the policy throughout of the project life; on September 2012 it was 21%.

37.     The short term indicators linked to disbursement of Component 1 were met in the expected time
frame of 6 months (See table 3). The rapid disbursement of the debt restructuring component allowed
SHF to respond to market instability. Volatility in the housing finance market heightened in 2009 when
access to new funding for mortgage lenders and construction firms dried up completely, whether through
direct credit lines or mortgage backed securities. SHF mobilized around US$254 million to the sector
between June 08-09 through liquidity lines and support to the secondary market. As expected, the short
term indicators peaked on the first half of 2009 when more support was needed in the sector. The
indicators continued to be tracked during supervision missions. Indicators 1 and 3 related to lending
volumes decreased systematically during the rest of the life of the project; their decrease is consistent with
the effects of the crisis and the delays in implementing the activities and reforms envisaged through
component 2 (See Annex 2 for all values).

                            Table 3. Key Performance Indicators / Short term indicators

KPI                                                                         Baseline       Target      January 09
                                                                            ( June 08)     (end of
                                                                                           component
                                                                                           1)
Total number of microcredits issued in previous 12 months                   73,903         84,000      101,257


Percentage that (a) number of mortgages issued during the period to         74 %           76%         79%
households earning up to 6MW plus micro-credits issued during the period
represents of (b) total number of mortgages issued during the period plus
micro-credits issued during the period


Total value of new mortgages (includes loans supported in the primary and   20,700         23,000      34,961
secondary market) plus total value of new Micro-credits and Liquidity
Lines issued during the period (MXP million)


Verification of use of WB funding for debt restructuring                    N/A            Complied    Complied -
                                                                                                       Review Jan
                                                                                                       2009

Approval of SHF's new short-term debt policy by its Board                   not approved   ST debt     Approved
                                                                                           policy      Dec 2008
                                                                                           approved




                                                                                                                  11
38.      By December 2012, SHF’s balance sheet had fundamental differences with the balance sheet
analyzed at appraisal. First, SHF now holds a large first floor loan portfolio as a result of the bankruptcy
and default of SOFOLES. Second, this recovered portfolio includes around US$486 million in non-
performing loans (See table 4). Third, SHF holds a large amount of RMBS (43% of all RMBS
outstanding) as a result of its role as buyer of last resort. Since mid-2011 SHF has outsourced the
portfolio management of its first tier loan portfolio. In general, while NPL tend to increase in the
immediate aftermath of the transfer, it tends to improve after three months on average. As mentioned,
recovered portfolios carry some advantages over second tier ones (larger financial margin and lower
reserve requirements). Yet, given the unprecedented NPLs of the portfolio, SHF’s Board requested an
externally prepared scenario analysis and stress testing to evaluate SHF’s financial situation. The report
was shared with the ICR preparation mission. The key conclusion is that SHF has sufficient productive
assets to compensate the non-performing ones. In the medium term, under the stressed scenario – with
NPLS reaching above 70% and new mortgages falling by 25% of the expected origination - SHF would
still have positive margins, although with a significant cost of capital due to the additional reserve
requirements.

                  Table 4. Current and non-performing portfolios, June 2012 (millions of pesos)

                                          First tier                                    Second tier
                               UDI                     Pesos                   UDI                    Pesos
                        Amount %                 Amount %               Amount %                Amount %
Current                 11,533   55%             4,642    70%           14,874   91%            7,655    98%
Non-performing          9,289    45%             2,006    30%           1,393    9%             144      2%
Total                   20,822                   6,648                  16,267                  7,799

39.     The market conditions in a financial crisis gave little space for development or consolidation, but
ample opportunity for stabilization. Stabilization became the focus of SHF’s role from late 2008 until late
2011. In addition to the support through liquidity lines; stabilization efforts for the SOFOLES market
included: issuance of new regulatory norms and tighter eligibility criteria for intermediaries, including
additional capitalization requirements. These efforts likely prevented further deterioration of the sector,
which likely would have had negative impacts on the overall market at that time. 24 Measures were
introduced to improve servicing of the whole SHF portfolio thorough mandatory audits, and development
in 2010-2011 of an incentive program for better performing institutions to receive funding faster, which
became mandatory staring January 2012. As investors retreated, the percentage of RMBS outstanding
held by SHF increased substantially from 25% in June 2008 to 46% in December 2009 and remained
above 40% thereafter. Effectively, SHF became the buyer of last resort for RMBS during the crisis, a role
played by Central Banks in other economies. It is clear these actions achieved the short-term stabilization
of the RMBS market, likely preventing further economic turbulence (Annex 3). Lack of proactivity from
SHF to revamp the secondary market is discussed at length in the mid-term review report and is one of
the reasons why the project rating was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory at the time. This issue
that was partially addressed at the end of 2011 when SHF and the Banking and Securities Commission
(CNBV) launched a high level working group to discuss measures to revamp market dynamism.
Additionally, SHF launched analytical tools in December 2011 to better inform investor’s decisions and
increase transparency in the market. Much remains to be done, and it is still not clear that the market will
be able to pick up after the crisis; SHF will still need to adopt measures to reduce the uncertainty over its




24
     Potential longer-term drawbacks from these actions outside of the PDO are discussed in Annex 3.




                                                                                                               12
role and over the strategy it will advocate in reshaping the market if such actions are prioritized by the
new administration.25

40.      Overall, the project successfully contributed to the achievement of the high-order outcome
indicator goal of 1 million housing solutions per year between 2008 and 2012 (See table 1 above). It is
an impressive achievement that the sector did not suffer a significant deceleration during the life of the
project, given the depth of the crisis and the vulnerability of the housing sector contagion effect. Overall
the government agencies made significant efforts to support the housing sector during the time of the
project.

41.      The project design and agreed targets underestimated both the depth of the financial crisis and the
difficulty of designing and implementing – through private sector intermediaries – products and schemes
to expand access to lower income segments. SHF’s strengthened balance sheet would have allowed it to
move down market as planned, but this goal was delayed in favor of overall market stabilization. As a
result, the project did not achieve the expected gradual expansion of SHF’s products towards lower
income segments, despite the eight month closing date extension:

            a. The total number of new loans financed by SHF during the life of the project (24,760)
               fell short of the agreed target of 50,000.
            b. The percentage of the number of mortgage loans to households earning between 1 and 6
               MW from total number of loans increased from its 10% baseline to 25% by December
               2012; but remained below the agreed target of 50%.
            c. The percentage of the total value of the mortgage loans to households earning between 1
               and 6 MW from total amount of mortgage loans increased from 5% to 14% by December
               2012; but remained below the agreed target of 25%
            d. The target of 14 additional financial intermediaries working with SHF was met, however
               only 10 are operating credit lines.
            e. The target for the number of mortgage loans to informal sector workers (10,000) during
               the life of the project was met; with 11,098 loans granted to this segment. It is worth
               noting that this represents around 44% of the total number of mortgages originated by
               SHF in the period.

42.     Indeed, the short term indicator linked to Component 1 (percentage of loans issued during the
period to households earning up to six minimum wages) did increased from 74% in June 2008 to 97% in
September 2012. However this ratio reflects a sharp decrease in mortgage lending (traditionally for higher
income segments) relative to micro-credits (traditionally for lower income segments) rather than an
increase in new lending for lower income segments.

43.      Although later than anticipated, the project did successfully strengthen SHF’s capacity to
move down market. Many of the planned technical assistance activities were eventually financed by
project, some were prepared through the Fee-Based Service contract between the Bank and SHF and still
others we carried out using SHF’s own funding. The resulting studies, monitoring systems developed and
new products helped guide reform and strengthen of SHF’s products and systems.




25
  The Bank finalized a report on “Revamping the Secondary Market in Mexico? on November 2012 that is expected
to contribute to the next steps in policy design to reactivate the RMBS market in Mexico.




                                                                                                          13
44.      The project financed the internal re-engineering of SHF to better address their mandate of moving
down-market, as a result a new department was created and staffed in SHF dedicated to innovation of
low-income products, the number of steps to become an SHF’s borrower were revised and improved to
reduce the uncertainty and the template reporting standards were simplified.26 In collaboration with IFC,
the project financed a toolkit, training material and a pilot for mortgage lending in four Cajas and one
micro-credit company. Three of these institutions are issuing mortgage loans today, albeit at a low
volume. Through a Fee-Based Service, the Bank supported SHF with analytical input to develop a new
financial product targeted for informal and low-income workers: “Crediferente? a blend of loan, subsidy
and guarantee intended for informally employed workers earning 6 minimum wages or less launched late
in 2011. Other technical activities include updating the guarantee requirements for Micro-lending to
adhere to good practice standards, or strengthened SHF’s ability to monitor counterpart risk through de-
facto regulatory requirements. The reforms were delayed until 2011 and have yet to translate into a
significant lending volume for housing for the lower income groups; yet they represent a robust set of
actions that have strengthened SHF’s ability to attract and retain financial intermediaries that address low
income groups.

3.3 Efficiency

45.      SHF applied 100% of project funds for Component 1 towards their allocated goal of restructuring
long-term to short-term debt. Of the US$7.48 million budgeted for technical assistance, only US$4.53
million was used. Activities were delayed and some cancelled, in part due to SHF’s focus on crisis
management up until 2011, leaving others to be financed through the RAS contract or with own funds. In
addition SHF intended to finance a large contract that in the end was not approved by the Bank and this
led to the cancellation of US$2.9 million.

46.      SHF was estimated to save approximately US$5 million from the lower interest bill from the debt
restructuring component. At appraisal, the IRBD loan was estimated to be about 50 basis points cheaper
than alternative short term funding such as Pagarés con Rendimiento Liquidable al Vencimiento (PRLV).
While not insignificant, this was not considered to be the primary advantage of World Bank funding.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

47.      The overall rating of the loan before closing was considered to be Moderately Satisfactory (MS).
The rating takes into account the following factors: (i) the shortcomings in project design, (ii) the target
for the PDO's outcome indicator (number of housing solutions delivered per year) has been met each year
since Board approval, despite the significant impact of the global financial crisis in the Mexican
economy, (ii) the key performance indicators associated to Component 1 were met as per the project
design and loan agreement yet (iii) the medium-term intermediate outcome indicators related to increased
lending volume and increased access for low-income households were not met, reflecting flaws in project
design and delays in the implementation of activities and necessary reforms. In addition, SHF played a
key role in stabilizing the housing finance market during the crisis and is today better equipped to address
lower income segments than it was prior to the implementation of the project.




26
  Complexity of reporting standards was mentioned by low-income financial intermediaries as one of the main
barriers to working with SHF.




                                                                                                              14
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48.      Potential social and gender impacts resulting from Component 1 cannot be traced to any one
specific socioeconomic group, but the support of mortgage finance likely benefits (a) households with
non-affiliated mortgages and (b) households impacted by the overall health of the GDP, employment and
construction sectors. Gender or social vulnerability apart from barriers in access to finance was not
directly considered in project design. Still the project is expected to have had positive impacts through
increased access to finance for women, particularly through the micro-finance loans.  

b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.     The World Bank’s combination of technical and financial assistance helped strengthen SHF over
the short term to stabilize the overall housing market as well as its intermediaries, and over the long term
with concrete technical development to fulfill its strategic vision of growing the housing finance sector
for the poor. Many technical assistance activities directly targeted SHF’s institutional practices and
organization, and developed new tools and protocols for the monitoring and evaluation of loans, labeling
RMBS, projections & sensitivity analysis; and criteria for SOFOLES restructuring. 

c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
 
50.     The most important unintended outcome of the project was the role played by SHF supporting the
housing markets during the crisis. A role that was possible – at least partially- because of their
strengthened balance sheet. By providing liquidity support through SOFOLES – many of which was used
to support the continuation of housing development projects – SHF helped to maintain a supply of
housing in order to meet the GoM targets. As explained, this role was precisely the reason behind the
delays in the implementation of the activities needed to focus SHF’s attention on increasing access for
lower income segments.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

51.     The risk to the sustainability of the achieved objectives is considered to be Moderate.

52.     The activities achieved under the operation have benefitted from the strong ownership and the
commitment of SHF and the Government. The stabilization of SHF and the mortgage sector has been
accompanied by a wide slate of reforms and improved and standardized practices within SHF and its
requirements for borrowers. These reforms have likely mitigated some of the larger-scale risks to a
second crisis or downturn that could undermine the development outcomes.

53.     Although many risks were discussed carefully at appraisal, two categories were fleshed out less
thoroughly: the credit risk of the entities engaged and their clients, and the internal risk of SHF’s
adherence to its charge and mission. Credit risk of intermediaries has been addressed to some extent
through SHF’s new financial projection model (MIPF) to evaluate intermediaries and the new
standardized process and criteria to partner. SHF has acknowledged that working with smaller entities,
such as CSIs providing self-build housing credits, for example, initially was a stretch for its teams and




                                                                                                         15
approach that had previously been geared towards larger entities with higher capacity. However, given the
continued commitment of the new Administration to continuing the expansion of access to housing
finance down market, it appears likely that SHF will continue to prioritize this objective and so further the
development outcome.

54.     SHF’s scope and role expanded considerably during the crisis. From its originally planned role as
market enabler and second tier bank, it has shifted to a strong market participant, holds now almost half of
the outstanding private RMBS in Mexico, and has considerable assets as first tier bank. SHF is working in
the definition of an exit strategy for these activities and a new strategic plan with a revised role in the
medium term.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

55.       The project was underpinned by a strong history of engagement between the Bank and the GoM
on housing policy and housing finance.27 It was prepared promptly, addressed a relevant issue and was
aligned with Government and Bank priorities. However, the project had important shortcomings in design
that carried inherent risks, particularly during the heightened market turbulence context in which the
project was prepared and approved. The Banks’ underlying assumption that a more balanced asset and
liability match would translate into an expansion of loans to lower income households had inherent risks,
(since increasing lending in a time of market turbulence could have in itself weakened the institution) and
failed to recognize that the challenges to address lower income segments can not only be addressed
through an increase in the supply of mortgages or home improvement loans. In sum, the project design
failed to identify the depth of important risks, or failed to mitigate others that could undermine the ability
of the project to achieve its expected results.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

56.     Supervision of this project by the World Bank team was marked by a high degree of technical
capacity and knowledge exchange. Routine missions and reports and technical and policy support were
delivered in a timely manner, with responsiveness and advocacy to borrower requests. Supervision
missions were held at least twice a year and regularly met with other development partners (IFC), private
sector agencies (housing developers, banks, SOFOLES, credit rating agencies, investors) to ensure a
comprehensive view of the sector issues. The mid-term review in particular is a stand-alone report that



27
   Since the late 1990s, the World Bank Group worked intensively with the Government of Mexico on housing
finance, development banks and financial system development. In the late 1990s the dialogue focused on the
recovery of the financial system from the dramatic 1995 crisis. Later, the focus was on broader issues of access to
finance and the enabling environment for housing and urban development (Mexico Low Income Housing: Issues
and Options, Report No. 22534, 2002; FSAP memo (2002) and FSAP update (2006). Mexico was an early
participant in the joint Bank-IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), which was followed by an update
in 2005. On the lending side, there were a series of Housing and Urban Development policy based loans, totaling
$500 million (last one approved on December 2007), accompanied by a technical assistance loan that closed in
2008. In addition the Bank has prepared three Fee-Based Service agreements on housing finance to provide tailored
analytics on specific housing finance topics.




                                                                                                                16
includes a breath of recommendations for SHF moving forward. The team benefited from prior
engagements with SHF and other entities on housing and urban issues with SHF and related government
agencies in the topic areas reduced transaction costs and ensured open communication channels. Many of
the technical reports reflect a high caliber of advisory services, and well-grounded in SHF’s current
capacities and abilities to implement.
 
57.      The Bank sent a firm message to SHF regarding concerns over delays in implementation of the
reforms needed to move down-market through supervision missions and eventually by downgrading the
project’s rating in 201128. The Bank considered restructuring the project to align the indicators to more
feasible targets during the midterm review but eventually decided against, as it was decided that shifting
the indicators would have had little impact on the final outcome. In part because disbursement was nearly
complete in the first few months, it is likely that little real leverage remained to encourage prioritization
of the down-market work. However, by being ready when SHF finished its crisis-stabilization work, the
technical component was quickly re-activated. The decision to extend the project’s closing date from
March of 2012 to extend the loan to December 31, 2012 to allow for more time of implementation of
Component 2 seems to have had a small effect in terms of outcomes but signaled a strong commitment
from the Bank and Borrower to deepen the efforts before the government administration came to an end
in December 2012.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

58.      This rating reflects: (i) the strong analytical background and relevance of the operation, (ii) the
efforts to undertake a through and informed supervision, including a strong multi-sector team (from the
Sustainable Development and PREM units) that provided candid feedback and policy recommendations,
and (iii) the design shortcomings and inherent risks.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
          
59.      The Mexican national government proactively recognized the need for SHF to restructure its
balance sheet in order to expand operations down-market and have a stabilizing role during the crisis, and
facilitated the implementation of the loan. Further, the government’s rapid deployment of countercyclical
actions likely prevented deeper negative impacts of the financial crisis. Perhaps more significantly, the
housing sector remained a national priority for policy and funding over the life of the loan.

(b) Implementing agency performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.      Strong ownership was displayed by SHF for the first component, and the relevant policy changes
were made expediently to ensure the desired stabilizing impacts on the institution as well as practices
within the market (Annex 2). However, expanding access to finance for lower-income households was de-
prioritized until 2011 in favor of institutional actions and policies oriented primarily towards the larger




28
     The project was later upgraded as SHF moved ahead with reforms in late 2011.




                                                                                                          17
and long-term health of the housing market. Even though the depths of the economic crisis, and SHF’s
expanding role and mission, were unexpected at the time of design, SHF likely could have committed
more resources and organizational focus to ensure progress in implementation. If only examined before
2011, SHF performance would have been rated unsatisfactory, but the rating takes into consideration the
significant work and institutional efforts to expand down-market components in late 2011 and 2012 and
the fact that most of the Technical Assistance activities were taken up fully by SHF either through the
loan a FBS, or internally, and that many of these reforms and findings appear to be reflected in their
current practice.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

61.     The rating reflects the ability of the project to meet the higher-order outcome indicator and key
performance indicators as agreed in the project documents despite the economic crisis that hit precisely
the housing finance sector worldwide. The project successfully achieved the financial strengthening of
SHF and its ability to address lower income segments. The former allowed SHF to play a key role in
market stabilization during the crisis. However, shortcomings in project design that increased the risks for
the project and for SHF and delays in the implementation of activities under Component 2 that
undermined SHF’s ability to meet the medium term expected outcome of addressing lower income
segments (below 6 MW) limited the impact of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

62.      The dual objectives of financial stabilization and market development requires favorable
market conditions and tight and direct linkages between what is being financed and what is the
desired outcome to be effective. The project might have benefited from a more modest objective of just
stabilization, in particular given the market turbulence. In addition, a more direct link between the short
term debt cancellation and the expansion in lending might have improved project design by highlighting
the challenged involved. Yet, it is an important achievement that despite the crisis the project still moved
in the right direction, although not achieving the lending volume envisaged.

63.     Market stabilization can generate important development benefits by preventing negative
impacts, particularly during a time of crisis, which commonly hit the lowest-income sectors the
hardest. Financial ‘crisis prevention’ actions can have positive impacts on general economic
development. Policies that enable instruments to encompass stabilization goals will be critical if they
continue to be an important service provided by the IBRD. If stabilization were recognized as a
productive purpose, for example, a SIL structure would not entail a set of indicators linked to increased
lending, which are often at odds with good practice in unstable markets. Or, if under the DPL structure,
sub-national entities were recognized as counterparts, a broader set of policy actions could be combined
into a more intensive technical engagement available for access by SHF-like agencies.

64.     The link between the expenditures financed and the outcomes must be straightforward. For
this project, the selected indicators (volume of increased support to the sector) were not meaningful
measures of market stability or even development. In hindsight to a certain extent, they could have
incentivized poor lending practices. Moreover, the target values of increased lending in the case of SHF
depends on the ability of the financial intermediaries to attract and address demand, something that is
beyond the control of SHF. In sum, it is recommended to have more nuanced expectations for project
outcomes from supporting second-tier institutions, as these rely on third party actions. The PDO
objectives that could be fulfilled by SHF alone were easy to track and fulfill, but objectives and indicators
that depended on third parties were unpredictable. The economic crisis adversely affected the main
intermediaries working with SHF which in turn hampered the project’s ability to meet its objectives fully.




                                                                                                          18
65.     Project design should maximize the ability of the project to leverage change. In this project
front-loaded disbursement appeared to decrease the ability to leverage change. Ninety-nine percent of the
loan funds were disbursed within a few months of approval. While enabling a rapid response to the crisis
through the intended debt restructuring, but had the unintended effect of reducing borrower incentive to
continue movement down market and the fulfillment of Component 2 objectives. In retrospect,
withholding even a small amount for yearly or mid-term disbursement, contingent on down market
indicators could have enabled greater Bank leverage.

66.    This loan exemplifies how a quality operational relationship with an intermediary can
enhance other aspects of engagement. Technical dialogue between SHF and the Bank remained strong
throughout the life of the project, evidencing a strong productive partnership that is supported by other
instruments. By pairing the loan with the more tailored response of the Fee-Based Service agreement, the
Bank was able to deliver greater value-added assistance, strengthen the partnership, and advance
development goals. In this case, the TA components built into the loan allowed activities that SHF would
have not otherwise funded. The experience of this loan suggests that the FBS instrument under some
circumstances provides very high returns in terms of sector engagement.

67.      Finally, the instrument used – an investment loan with a fast disbursement component –
enabled the Bank to address the specific needs of the Borrower but at the same time contributed to
the main shortcomings of the project design. The need to specify a productive purpose for the
expenditure would not have risen if the project had been structured as a DPL. At the same time, a DPL to
the central government - who could pass on the funds to SHF - would not have been effective to
restructure debt (since the central government does not on-lend to development banks) and a DPL directly
for SHF was not feasible. If this instrument is to be replicated in similar operations in the future, the
benefits and shortcomings involved should be carefully assessed at appraisal.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(See Annex 6)




                                                                                                      19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                                millions)



                Total Baseline Cost       1,007.475                1,007.475
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                    0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                     0.00             0.00
                Total Project Costs           0.00                     0.00
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                     0.00              .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            2.525                    2.525             .25
        Total Financing Required          1,010.00                 1,010.00



(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of                                    Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                               0.00           0.00           .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                        1,010.00         1,010.00     .00
and Development




                                                                                                    20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Debt restructuring for SHF

Restructuring SHF’s short-term debt was completed promptly. The restructuring stabilized SHF, and
enabled SHF to pursue activities to stabilize the market. Given the context of the economic crisis, little
expansion in housing finance to new markets occurred overall, but SHF’s stability enabled stabilization of
the main intermediaries providing housing credits to the lower-income segments served.

The short-term Key Performance Indicators for Component 1 were met by January 2009 as planned prior
to disbursement. The values for the indicators related to an expansion of lending decreased given the
significant impact of the global financial crisis on housing lending, as well as less-than-anticipated
subsidy support for housing microcredits. Throughout the life of the loan, SHF’s share of lending to down
market housing loans increased steadily to reach 97%.

            Table 5. Key Performance Indicators linked to Component 1 (USD 1 billion)

                                  Target
                       Baseline
                                  (end of                          Mar-
         KPI            ( June            Jan-09 Jun-09                    Dec-10    Dec-11   Apr-12    Sep-12
                                component                           10
                          08)
                                     1)
2. Total number of
microcredits issued in    73,903 84,000        101,257 68,818 47,943 34,561          23,768 14,098      68,471
previous 12 months
3. Percentage that (a)
number of Mortgages
issued during the period
to households earning
up to 6MW plus Micro-
credits issued during the
period represents of (b)      74 %      76%       79%        74%    83%       89%      91%       98%      97%
total number of
Mortgages issued
during the period plus
Micro-credits issued
during the period
4. Total value of new
mortgages (includes
loans supported in the
primary and secondary
market) plus total value    20,700    23,000    34,961 31,870      7,737     (931)    6,857     2,259    8,126
of new Micro-credits
and Liquidity Lines
issued during the period
(MXP million)
Verification of use of     N/A     Complied     Complied -
WB funding for debt                            Review Jan
restructuring                                  2009




                                                                                                            21
Approval of SHF's new not        ST debt     Approved Dec
short-term debt policy approve   policy      2008
by its Board           d         approved



Component 2: Technical assistance activities to increase SHF capacity to stimulate down market
housing finance.

Implementation and outreach to intermediaries was slowed by focus on crisis management, and did not
begin in earnest until late 2011. Further, several of the technical activities were implemented outside of
the loan framework, through a FBS instrument or internally by the SHF, and a few were cancelled. Of the
technical assistance components that were completed, most have been fully adopted into SHF’s
permanent operation improving organizational practices and assisting in some cases with a well-
monitored down market expansion. These actions still need to translate into an increase in lending to
lower income segments as expected by the project.

Technical Assistance          Status at closing.
Activities
Restructuring and             Completed with funding from the project. A study was finalized in
reorganization of SHF for     the fall of 2010 with specific recommendations including creation
greater efficiency and        of new business areas, such as product innovation, strengthening
ability to serve low-         credit risk mitigation measures, reducing the report requirements
income segments.              for intermediaries and revamping the funds application process for
                              new intermediaries.

Capacity building for         Completed with funding from the project. Findings of the
selected savings and loans    engagement determined the sector has little incentive and ability to
entities.                     move into housing loans at this time. The concept was built on the
                              IFC positive experience with SOFOL technical assistance, and was
                              undertaken, with IFC accompaniment, to test the hypothesis that
                              similar capacity building and intensive engagement from SHF
                              could develop the capacity of the savings and loans enough to
                              deliver housing finance products.

Risk assessment and risk-     Completed with funding from the project. A model (MIPF) for
based credit guidelines for   evaluating the projections and potential risk of potential
new intermediaries.           intermediaries has been developed and applied to several pilot
                              entities; it is envisaged to be implemented completely in 2013.
                              Individual models are constructed for each entity analyzed based on
                              (1) standardized assumptions (2) past history and (3) amortization
                              calculations for every credit held by SOFOL.
                              Capacity building manual for new intermediaries were completed
                              with funding from the project and was combined with the capacity-
                              building activities for Savings and Loans entities.

Consulting support on         Completed through NLTA. A study commissioned by the project
optimizing RMBS market-       and completed in December of 2011 recommended creation of a
maker role.                   SHF ‘label’ to differentiate and signal higher-quality mortgage
                              loans with more stringent origination and underwriting practices.




                                                                                                       22
Scoring system for RMBS.      Completed with own funding. One of the main shortcomings
                              reported by investors on the RMBS model in Mexico is the lack of
                              standardized instruments to evaluate them. SHF developed a new
                              on-line platform with a system to evaluate the BORHIS label
                              named “Calculadora BORHIS? available to investors and other
                              registered users.

Information and               Not completed. At present, SHF regularly collects data on all of its
coordination on housing       borrowers, but no plan has been undertaken on the establishment of
micro-finance products.       a permanent center for such information on the market as a whole,
                              as was envisaged at appraisal.

Monitoring and evaluation     A unit has been established in SHF.
unit in the SHF that          Although not completed with project funding, SHF developed a
regularly collects data.      monitoring system for all new intermediaries. The system
                              strengthens institutional measurements, and has a tiered
                              classification system for performance indicators, and is
                              disaggregated by credit type and segment.

Study on loss given default   Cancelled
on bridge loans


Market study to assess        Cancelled
demand for different types
of housing products.
Development of prototype      Completed by the project. However, the mid-term review assessed
master servicer contract      this action as still having little effect in increasing sector efficiency.

Innovation fund to            Cancelled This activity was put on hold by the SHF board, as it was
streamline funding for new    not perceived as an organizational priority at the time of the
pilot initiatives             financial crisis.

Data server to host           Funded with own resources. This could not be financed under the
electronic database of        project given the requirement established by SHF to host the
SHF’s origination and         physical server within Mexican territory; a requirement that was
underwriting documents        deemed by the Bank to limit competition.
and all property appraisal
records




                                                                                                           23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


1.       At appraisal, the economic analysis estimated impact of the loan through direct lending and
expected overall market development. The number of housing loans that the World Bank loan to SHF
could support directly was estimated to be 40,000. This represented is only a small portion of the
country’s overall housing needs. This figure was equivalent to 8 percent of the housing demand generated
annually by the formation of new households and about 4 percent of the government’s annual target of
additional housing loans. The number also equaled to about 0.4 percent of the estimated backlog in
adequate housing for Mexican households. Overall, the amount of finance was equivalent to about 1.5 of
total annual investment in housing in Mexico. This rather small direct impact supported the rationale for
a project that provided financial and technical assistance to SHF as a way to leverage resources for
improved housing finance markets. Through SHF’s role in developing new instruments – for example
home improvement loans—and working with new mortgage intermediaries, the economic impact of the
loan can extend beyond the direct loans that could be financed by $1 billion. It was envisaged that SHF
would use the World Bank loan to fund the expansion of its peso-denominated portfolio also provide
financial space for possible continued support of the RMBS market.


2.       A brief financial analysis was prepared for the ICR. A financial analysis was prepared rather than
a traditional economic analysis given that the main benefit and costs of the project are of financial nature
and given that 99% of the loan amount was destined to Component 1, which was designed to strengthen
SHF financially. The first section of the analysis discusses the extent to which the loan strengthened
SHF’s balance sheet and the main consequences of this strengthening. The second section highlights
some medium term sustainability issues. Although not all of these issues were – strictly speaking –
supported or directly linked to the loan; these are relevant to understand the housing finance issues in
Mexico and the context of the project. The final section presents the concluding messages.


Strengthening of SHF’s Financial Position

3.       Total Disbursements, financing terms and use of Funds. The borrower requested a first
disbursement of US$500 million in December 2008. After a supervision mission and verification of the
use of funds and compliance with the disbursement indicators the borrower requested a second
disbursement of US$500 million in February 2009. Disbursements were executed with favourable
financing terms (See Table A below). All disbursements were priced under the reference rate TIIE. This
rate reflects the average cost of fund at market rates. The funds were used to cancel short term debt for a
total amount of US$1,262 million. (See Table B). The loan provided an opportunity to take advantage of
the Bank’s position as a triple-A derivatives counterparty to fund a second-tier lender that operates in a
market that lacks such products. The loan was a fixed peso rate with an embedded call option. In this
case, the cost of the call would be embedded in the borrowing spread. In general, the Bank offered a
spread that was at the time 50 basis points below SHF’s funding cost. The rational was that if the cost of
the call proved excessive, SHF could switch to variable rate pesos at a fixed spread. This would ensure a
match between assets and liabilities on a variable rate basis, and will offer variable rate funding to its SCI
clients.




                                                                                                           24
                                                Table A. Disbursement History 
                                                      Amount  
                                          Date       (US mill)     Rate       TIIE (28) 
                                       12/04/2008           100           TIIE ? 71        8.75 
                                       12/10/2008           100          TIIE ? 73         8.74 
                                       12/11/2008           100          TIIE ? 70         8.77 
                                       12/12/2008          200          TIIE ? 68.8        8.75 
                                        Sub?total          500                                 
                                      02/05/2009           500           TIIE ? 80         8.03 
                                          Total           1,000                                




4.       By December 2008 the asset/liability mismatched has been resolved: duration of assets was 3.2
and duration of liabilities was -3.4 (See graph). In consequence, liquidity risk was contained and the
interest rate risk of its balance sheet was successfully hedged. Overall, SHF’s funding structure was
lengthened between 2008 and 2012. Over four-fifths of the institution’s long term funding comes from
multilateral loans as other instruments available to SHF are mostly short and medium term


5.       Without IRBD long-term financing to restructure the SHF short-term debt, SHF would have
increased their levels of short-term debt even
further, using PRLVs. Increased short-debt, or even                             Duration of Assets and Liabilities
                                                                                         Oct '08 vs Dec '08
maintaining the 49.34% percentage of September                4.0

2008 would have diminished SHF’s institutional                3.0
                                                                        3.1                                    3.2
stability (potentially sending negative market                2.0

signals in and of itself), critically reducing the            1.0
                                                                                                                      Duration: Assets
                                                                         Years




appetite and ability for SHF to (a) acquire RMBS              0.0
                                                                                                                      Duration: Liabilities
                                                                       Oct 2008                             18-Dec-08
and (b) issue liquidity lines to SOFOLES.                    -1.0

Throughout the life of the loan, the institution             -2.0       -2.5
maintained the short term debt at reasonable levels          -3.0
                                                                                                               -3.4
(21% at the time of loan closing) in accordance with         -4.0
the Short term debt policy approved by SHF’s
Board prior to effectiveness of the loan.
Furthermore, SHF established and Asset-Liability Committee in 2010 to better manage the liquidity, and
interest rate risks. This was particularly important since it was to provide balance sheet stability precisely
at the time when it planned to move down market, which would very likely increase its exposure to credit
risk due to working with smaller and less established intermediaries




                                                                                                                                       25
                                 Table B. Disbursements & cancelled debt (US mill) 
                                              IBRD                     SHF 
                            Date      Disburs.  Cumm .  Debt paid  Amount  Cumm . 
                        04/12/2008       100        100   ISHF08484       156        156 
                        10/12/2008       100        200                                  
                        11/12/2008       100        300   ISHF08494        75        231 
                        16/12/2008      200         500    OMA0032         91        322 
                        17/12/2008                         OMA0034         61        383 
                        18/12/2008                        ISHF08504       145        528 
                        10/02/2009      500        1,000   OMA0041         35        563 
                        13/02/2008                        ISHF09065       386        949 
                        20/02/2008                        ISHF09075       313       1,262 
                                                                                         


6.      Multilateral funding from IBRD (and eventually from IADB) helped to reduce the capital
requirements derived from market risk, most notably in 2009. This, in addition to the improved financial
margin from the first floor portfolio allowed SHF to keep more capital than required by law. At the end of
2009 SHF’s capitalization index was 12.85% which more than compensated the large reserve
requirements that SHF had to create in 2008, 2009 and 2010 due to the deterioration of the ratings from
its main financial intermediaries29.

7.      SHF was instrumental in managing the financial crisis in the mortgage sector. As a response to
the impact of the global financial crisis on the Mexican financial system, SHF rapidly expanded its
balance sheet in 2009 through a sharp growth in its loan portfolio (of individual mortgages, construction
bridge loans and microcredits) as well as the (net) acquisition of Residential Mortgage Backed Securities
(RMBS). SHF played in practice the role of lender of last resort, which in other countries was played by
Central Banks. SHF was able to finance expansion partly thanks to the disbursement of the first tranche of
the Bank loan ($500 million or MXN 6,735 million). This was possible because SHF had strengthened its
financial situation. SHF’s long term lending activity declined in line with market demand and as a
response to the severe crisis affecting SOFOLs, since these are the main distribution channels for SHF’s
products. Between 2009 and mid 2011 SHF focused exclusively in “managing? the SOFOLs crisis and
acting as buyer of last resort for the RMBS market.

8.       Between 2008- 2010 SHF’s total assets stabilized. SHF’s asset portfolio increased in the first two
years with the acquisition of RMBS and SOFOLES portfolios, and since 2011 have begun to slowly
decline. Between 2008 and 2010, SHF’s total assets grew by 9% to reach 99 billion pesos to later decline
slightly to 96.6 billion pesos in December 2012. This decline was nearly all due to increased estimations
of preventative funds for credit risk. Net credit declined sharply as a share of assets between December of
2008 and 2010, falling from 63% to 50% but, it stayed nearly constant over the last two years of the loan,
closing 2012 with 49.5% of assets, despite a slight decrease in quantity (from 52 to 46 billion pesos 2010-
2012) due to the adjustments for credit risk. Since 2010, SHF’s mortgage holdings have increased from
17 to 24 million pesos, from 33% to 41% of total credit.

9.     SHF currently has more capital than required by the Banking regulator. As of December 2012,
SHF had total capital of 18.84 billion pesos, which includes 72% social capital, new capital from
Hacienda provided in 2008, and 27% of retained earnings. Liquidity risk is contained to date. SHF is



29
     Banking regulation requirement is 10%




                                                                                                        26
developing a new Basel III compliant methodology to monitor its liquidity risk. Using a cash flow gap
analysis,30 SHF has a negative gap (in which liabilities exceed assets) of 1.3 billion pesos in the very short
term (<1 month). SHF has successfully hedged the interest rate risk of its balance sheet through long-
term funding received from multilaterals (IBRD and IDB) and swaps done to hedge different portfolio
positions in UDIs vs. Pesos and fixed vs. variable rates.

Medium term Sustainability

10.      SHF’s liquidity lines to the SOFOLES, made possible by the improved debt ratio, prevented
deeper deterioration of the housing sector overall. Without the funds extended by SHF between 2009 and
2012, the SOFOLES had no other sources of affordable funds, and more would have likely defaulted
without restructuring. Yet of the SOFOLES that received liquidity lines, only a few are still in operation.
The probable alternative to SHF support would have been substantially more SOFOLES defaults, and as a
result, more first-floor portfolio coming to SHF. A larger first-floor portfolio is not in the envisaged role
of SHF and would have likely further destabilized the institution. Even though greater collapse was likely
prevented, the SOFOLES structure remains uncertain. The domestic economic crisis, poor risk
management practices in certain SOFOLES along with the problems of the United States mortgage
market severely affected their portfolio with many of them incurring significant losses in 2009. The
SOFOLES market segment in housing finance has shrunk from originating $51 billion pesos worth of
new lending in housing finance in 2007 to $12.2 billion pesos in 2009 and $7 billion from January to July
2010. Their production of bridge loans to developers fell 56% in 2009 (in peso terms). SHF will need to
address the conflict between its role as market developer and de facto regulator for institutions that are
officially unregulated.

11.       SHF has made efforts to strengthen its supervision and oversight of the activities of the financial
intermediaries it funds. Following the severe delinquencies of a number of its intermediaries, SHF has (i)
recently started to contract with external verification systems, such as a company called Externa, to
provide additional due diligence on certain loans by its financial intermediaries, (ii)Increased site visits to
financial intermediaries from once to twice a year, (iii) Requires personnel from all relevant departments
to participate (i.e. credit/technical, collections, insurance, guarantees and documentation), (iv)Changed
procedures such that it issues letters to financial intermediaries in the case of any violations of SHF policy
providing the intermediary with 10 days to respond regarding their actions, and (v) Created fideicomisos
(trusts) that ensure that SHF receives the first revenues from a number of financial intermediaries.

12.       SHF acquired around US$10 billion in RMBS (net, marked to market) between 2009 and 2010
alone. If SHF had not acquired the large RMBS portfolio during the first two years of the life of the loan,
immediate housing market stability would have dropped and the longer-term likelihood of recovery for
the RMBS sector would have decreased. Investor confidence was already on shaky ground because the
sector was relatively nascent and had diversified rapidly. And the scale of the impacts were substantial;
nearly half of all private RMBS, BORHIS (SOFOLES and Banks), over the life of the project were held
by SHF. Further, for the intermediaries, without the liquidity received through RMBS, lending would
have likely further curtailed. That said, is possible the Central Bank would have stepped in to purchase
the issues, with similar outcomes as the SHF actions, but potentially with other strategic benefits, such as
a clearer demarcation of the troubled asset pool. However this was likely a strategic decision of SHCP



30
   SHF defines a “Relative Liquidity Risk? as the ratio between the volume of cash and equivalents
(Disponibilidades) and the “Exposición riesgo liquidez? (which quantifies the impact that the volatility of spreads
could have on SHF portfolio if they wanted to sell it in the market). According to internal limits, this ratio should not
be higher than 0,54%.




                                                                                                                      27
that responded to a wider array of macroeconomic considerations. SHF also acquired around US$1 billion
of RMBS issued by the public housing funds (INFONAVIT) between 2008 and 2012. This represents an
important shift in SHF’s mandate (to foster private market development), however it was part of the
countercyclical package defined by the GoM to reduce the negative impacts of the crisis in the housing
sector. Today SHF has become a dominant investor in RMBS, holding 42.6%31 of the outstanding Borhis
stock, and 25% of all the MBS outstanding stock with $2.3 billion of RMBS on its books (versus only
15.3% by mid-2008 and 7.5% by mid-2007). This increasing exposure must be addressed as it
corresponds to a fiscal risk which can materialize through further SHF recapitalization needs.

13.      In terms of support to capital markets and RMBS, SHF took active measures to support the
BORHIS market, but the RMBS market overall has been slow to recover. SHF took an active role during
the financial crisis to improve the performance of securitization. These activities were done in alignment
with actions by the Central Bank, CNBV and SHCP to develop remedies to restore the efficiency and the
value of the market. However, the liquidity support to the secondary market did not stimulate the
secondary trading of BORHIS, and was just a one way intervention in an abruptly falling market, and
acquisition of the issues by the provident funds. Further, while most SHF support went to issues from
SOFOLES, the liquidity support from SHF was not at the level needed to replace SOFOLES access to the
capital market, which is enduringly closed to them – beyond the market disruption due to the financial
crisis. SHF has played a market-maker role in the mortgage securitization market.

14.      SHF’s normative function and technical support to investors targeted some of the key issues
impeding the MBS market and were definitely valuable. SHF’s role also likely had a real demonstration
effect (concept of master servicer, valuation tool, etc.) on the MBS market as a whole and was an
important participant to the preparation of reforms undertaken by the financial authorities with the view
of rationalizing and strengthening the organization of the MBS market. Although conditions would have
been worse without SHF involvement, the RMBS market has not yet bounced back. Weak performance
has been behind some of this delay. Portfolios sold by SOFOLES through the issuance of Bonos
Respaldados por Hipotecas (BORHIS) deteriorated significantly. There is a general loss of confidence of
investors towards SOFOLES MBS. Issues have largely come to a halt and have not yet re-started. The
only issues over the period of the loan years have been done by INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE which
became very active MBS issuers following their growing predominance on the lending market.

Concluding Message

15.     The financial position of SHF was strengthened by the loan and this had a positive impact in the
housing finance sector, particularly given the period of market turbulence. The financial impact of the
strengthening is not easily determined since it represents a counterfactual of what would have occurred if
SHF had not supported market stabilization. That said, challenges remain over the medium term, many of
which are partially, consequences of the crisis (high NPLs in financial intermediaries, high level of
dependency over public provident funds) that will require a revision of roles and priorities in the Mexican
housing finance markets.




                                                                                                        28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Juan Carlos Alvarez           Senior Counsel                       LEGES      Legal
Jozef Draaisma                Sr Country Economist                 LCSPE      Country Economist
William Britt Gwinner         Principal Operations Officer         CAFAA      Sr Specialist
Marja C. Hoek Smit            Consultant                           LCSDU      Consultant
Juan Carlos Mendoza           Manager, Portfolio and Operati       EACNF      TTL
David Rosenblatt              Economic Adviser                     DECOS      Sector Leader
Angelica Nunez del Campo      Sr Urban Spec.                       LCSDU      Urban Specialist
Victor Manuel Ordonez Conde   Senior Finance Officer               CTRLN      FM Specialist
Gabriel Penaloza              Procurement Specialist               LCSPT      Procurement
Steven R. Weisbrod            Consultant                           LCSPE      Consultant
Lily Chu                      Sector Manager                       FPDOK      Sector Manager

Supervision/ICR
David Rosenblatt              Economic Adviser                      DECOS TTL
Javier De la Cruz Gonzalez    Consultant                            ECSPF Consultant
                                                                          Sr. Country
Jozef Draaisma                Sr Country Economist                  LCSPE
                                                                          Economist
Alejandra Gonzalez            Program Assistant                     LCSFM Program Assistant
Ellen Hamilton                Lead Urban Specialist                 UDRUR Urban Specialist
Rosa Maria Hernandez          Program Assistant                     LCC1C Program Assistant
Angelica Nunez del Campo      Sr Urban Spec.                        LCSDU TTL
Victor Manuel Ordonez Conde   Senior Finance Officer                CTRLN FM Specialist
Gabriel Penaloza              Procurement Specialist                LCSPT Procurement
Guang Zhe Chen                Sector Manager                        AFCE3 Sector Manager
Anna Wellenstein              Sector Manager                        LCSDU Sector Manager
Yoonhee Kim                   Urban Specialist                      LCSDU Urban Specialist
Bernadette Baird-Zars         Consultant                            LCSDU Consultant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending

                              Total:                                       214,697.00
Supervision/ICR

                              Total:                                       390,446.83




                                                                                                   29
Annex 5. Stakeholder Consultations and Discussions

No large-group workshops were conducted. However all supervisory missions included consultation with
a wide range of stakeholders to direct and validate the findings of the ICR team. In the 2012 missions,
stakeholder participation and feedback directly informed the development of the ICR. An intentional
effort was done to reach out to intermediaries across the country, and several entities participated from
their headquarters in other states. A partial list of entities participating in the formulation of the messages
of the ICR includes:

Sector or entity                             Specific team or organization

SHF                                          Committees and teams within SHF responsible for part of
                                             loan Components
                                             Down market: strategy for new intermediaries,
                                             SOFOLES
                                             Overall: market stabilization role
                                             Business development: new products and intermediaries
                                             Subsidies
                                             Finance: monitoring, balance sheets, SHF position
                                             Credit and risk: regulation, financial models

Down market lenders / intermediaries         Entities involved in providing housing finance, such as
                                             MFIs, cooperatives, SOFOLES, commercial banks with
                                             down market wing
                                             Fink2
                                             Li Financiera
                                             Alternativa 19 del Sur
                                             Cooperativa ACREIMEX

National Housing Agencies                    Government entities that subsidize or provide housing
                                             service
                                             CONAVI
                                             INFONAVIT
                                             FOVISSSTE
                                             National Housing Registry

National financial agencies                  Government entities involved in monitoring              and
                                             regulating financial system, including for housing
                                             Ministry of Finance

International lenders                        Major lenders or donors to housing and/or urban
                                             development
                                             IFC
                                             IADB
                                             AFD
                                             Habitat for Humanity

Non-profits and associations                 Association of state housing organizations (OREVIS)




                                                                                                            30
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
(Includes origjnal text in Spanish and translation to English)




                EVALUACIÓN DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO 
 
 
 
 
       PROYECTO DE FORTALECIMIENTO DEL MERCADO DE 
          FINANCIAMIENTO PRIVADO A LA VIVIENDA 
 
 
 


                                                                                
                                                                            
 
                                  
                                  
                                  
                          PRÉSTAMO 7614?MX 
 
 
 




                                                                               31
(a) Antecedentes del Programa.

Con fecha 17 de junio de 2008, se llevó a cabo una visita de identificación por parte del
Banco Mundial para el analizar conjuntamente con Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF),
una probable nueva operación de financiamiento externo para ésta última con base en su
Plan Estratégico 2008-2012.

En agosto de 2008, la Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, la Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales
y el Banco Mundial, firmaron la minuta de acuerdos de la etapa de preparación del
“Proyecto de Fortalecimiento del Mercado de Financiamiento Privado a la Vivienda?:

       Monto del financiamiento:                 1,010 millones de dólares

       Componentes de financiamiento:            1) Fortalecimiento del Balance
                                                  2) Asistencia Técnica
       Plazo del financiamiento:                 30 años

En septiembre de 2008, el Banco Mundial llevó a cabo una visita de evaluación a todas las
áreas de Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal para analizar su capacidad de gestión financiera,
técnica, administrativa y de sistemas.

A finales del mismo mes de septiembre de 2008, Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, la Unidad
de Asuntos Internacionales de la SHCP y el Banco Mundial, llevaron a cabo las discusiones
técnicas de los documentos legales del préstamo y establecieron los indicadores de
monitoreo ligados a desembolsos, firmando con ello la minuta de negociación
correspondiente el 9 de octubre de 2008

El 6 de noviembre de 2008, el Consejo Directivo del Banco Mundial, aprobó el crédito por
1,010 millones de dólares para financiar el Proyecto de Fortalecimiento del Mercado de
Financiamiento Privado a la Vivienda para ser ejecutado por Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal
y con la garantía de Gobierno Federal por medio de la Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito
Público:

       Fecha del contrato de préstamo:            11 de noviembre de 2008
       Fecha del contrato de garantía:            11 de noviembre de 2008
       Fecha de declaración de efectividad:       25 de noviembre de 2008
       Fecha de cierre del préstamo (original)    30 de marzo de 2012
       Fecha     de    cierre   del    préstamo   31 de diciembre de 2012
       (modificada)


(b) Objetivos de Desarrollo.

El objetivo principal del proyecto fue: (a) fortalecer la capacidad financiera de la Sociedad
Hipotecaria Federal S.N.C., para desarrollar y consolidar el mercado de financiamiento a la
vivienda, y expandir el acceso a las personas de menores ingresos en el mediano plazo; y
(b) mejorar la capacidad técnica de la SHF para lograr esta expansión al mercado de las
personas de menores ingresos, permitiéndoles el acceso al mercado hipotecario a través de
diferentes soluciones de vivienda.




                                                                                          32
(c) Organización y operación.

Para la ejecución del Proyecto se contó con la Subdirección de Relación Multilateral y
Consultoría en Materia de Vivienda, adscrita a la Dirección de Promoción de Negocios, que
funge como Unidad Coordinadora y se encargó de las siguientes funciones:

    (a) coordinar las tareas de las áreas de negocio ejecutoras de SHF y concentrar la
    información emitida por los mismos;
    (b) darle seguimiento a los acuerdos tomados por las áreas ejecutoras; y mantener un
    sistema de información, control y seguimiento de compromisos contractuales del
    Contrato de Préstamo, ayudas de memoria, entendiéndose por ello el documento
    elaborado al final de una misión con objeto de presentar los resultados de ésta, así
    como identificar los compromisos y acciones que son necesarios para avanzar en la
    ejecución del Proyecto;
    (c) actuar como administrador técnico del Proyecto;
    (d) servir de enlace con el BIRF para darle seguimiento y monitoreo al avance físico del
    Proyecto;
    (e) preparar los informes de avance del Proyecto;
    (f) asegurar la preparación de los Términos de Referencia (TOR’s, por sus siglas en
    inglés de Terms of Reference) de las áreas de negocio ejecutoras de SHF y su envío al
    BIRF de acuerdo con la programación del Proyecto;
    (g) asegurar el flujo de información entre las áreas ejecutoras y el BIRF;
    (h) seguimiento a cada uno de los componentes del Proyecto y que las áreas ejecutoras
    cumplan con los planes de ejecución.

Así mismo, la Dirección General Adjunta de Finanzas por medio de la Dirección de Tesorería
y su Subdirección de Financiamiento, de la Dirección de Planeación Financiera y de la
Dirección de Derivados y Análisis Financiero, responsable de haber realizado todas las
gestiones financieras del préstamo, teniendo como principales funciones:

    (a) monitorear la ejecución del Proyecto y el cumplimiento de sus objetivos;
    (b) gestionar ante el BIRF cualquier aviso, notificación, cancelación parcial o total de
    recursos y/o cualquier otro trámite relacionado con la parte financiera del préstamo ya
    sea por procesos internos o por requerimientos de la SHCP;
    (c) coordinar conjuntamente con la Unidad Coordinadora las visitas de supervisión
    (misiones) del BIRF y sus programas de trabajo;
     (d) responsable y enlace único ante el BIRF del proceso de disposición de recursos
    (desembolsos) del Préstamo,
    (e) gestionar y negociar ante el BIRF, todas las condiciones financieras de cada una de
    las disposiciones del crédito (incluyendo tasa, intereses, prepagos, swaps y la
    amortización correspondiente);
    (f) seguimiento de los estados de cuenta de la cuenta designada;
    (g) informar a SHCP mensualmente sobre las cuentas del Préstamo y situación
    financiera del Proyecto.




                                                                                         33
Flujo de Operaciones para la ejecución de sus dos componentes.
Para el componente de Asistencia Técnica el flujo de operaciones fue el siguiente:




                                                                                                  Banco Internacional                              Dirección de 
             ?rea Ejecutora de                      Unidad Coordinadora 
                                                                                                  de Reconstrucción y                             Promoción de 
                    SHF                                 del Proyecto 
                                                                                                    Fomento (BIRF)                                Negocios / SHF 




           Inici




                                                 Dirección de                                                Emite las NO 
                                                                                                                                                    Unidades Negociadoras 
                                                Promoción de                                                  Objeciones 
                                                                                                                                                     ante los Organismos 
                                               Negocios (Unidad                                           correspondientes                                                                        Fin
                                                                                                                                                          Financieros 
                                               Coordinadora) 1, 2                                         a los procesos de 
                                                                                                                                                        Internacionales 
                                                                                                               licitación  



       1 
          Los Ejecutores son responsables de la contratación de consultores y del Informe de Avance Físico del Programa. 
       2
           La  Unidad  Coordinadora  es  la  líder  del  Proyecto,  y  responsable  de  coordinar  las  tareas  de  las  áreas  ejecutoras  y  concentrar  la  información  emitida  por  los  mismos.  Recibe  los 
       requerimientos e informes de avance del programa de cada área Ejecutora. 
       3
          El Gerente del Proyecto (Task Team Leader) es el responsable del BIRF para coordinar todas las actividades relacionadas con el Proyecto. 




Dado que no existe un Contrato de Mandato, y por tanto tampoco la figura de Agente
Financiero; la Dirección de Derivados y Análisis Financiero es la responsable de la
administración financiera del préstamo, y tiene como misión la agilización de los procesos
implícitos en el seguimiento de flujos de fondos, auditoria, desembolsos y reportes financieros.

Para el componente de Reestructura de Deuda el flujo de operaciones fue el siguiente:




                                                                                                                                                                                                        34
                   SHF                                 Dirección General Adjunta de Finanzas por medio de la               Organismo Financiero 
        Dirección de Derivados y                            Dirección de Derivados y Análisis Financiero                       Internacional 
           Análisis Financiero                                                                                               (Banco Mundial)



                Inicio



                                                    2. Valida la documentación             5. Informa mensualmente        4. Se pronuncia en forma 
        1. Envía la información y 
                                                        que da evidencia del                 del avance financiero a      oficial la aprobación ó no 
          documentación para 
                                                    cumplimiento contractual               todas las áreas de la SHCP           aceptación del 
       conocer el avance técnico 
                                                       enviada por la Unidad              involucradas en el proceso.     cumplimiento contractual 
       y financiero del proyecto. 
                                                     Ejecutora del Programa.                             1                     correspondiente. 




                                                       3. Envía al Organismo               6. Informa mensualmente 
                                                    Financiero Internacional la             del avance financiero a 
                                                      documentación que da                   todas las instancias de 
                                                           evidencia del                         Banxico y CNBV 
                                                    cumplimiento contractual.             involucradas en el proceso. 




                                                                                           7. Concilia mensualmente 
                                                                                            el estado financiero que 
                                                                                          guardan  los créditos de los 
                                                                                           OFI’s con la Subdirección 
                                                                                          Control de Operaciones de 
                                                                                                   Tesorería




                                                                                                         Fin 

 1 
      Dirección General de Organismos Financieros Internacionales y Dirección General de Deuda Pública




       (d) Ejecución

El proyecto consistió en un préstamo de inversión al sector (SIL) por sus siglas en inglés, por
un monto de US$1,010 millones por un periodo de implementación de aproximadamente tres
años y medio.

Componente 1 – Reestructura de la deuda (US$ 1,000 millones): Este componente consistió
en una reestructuración de la deuda para proveer fondeo de largo plazo a la SHF para tener en
su pasivo un instrumento que coincidiera más en plazo con las características de sus activos,
asimismo fondear a la institución para que lograra consolidar sus esfuerzos de atender a la
gente de menores ingresos.

Componente 2- Asistencia técnica (US$ 7.5 millones): El componente de Asistencia Técnica
fue de suma importancia para la implementación del nuevo plan estratégico (2008-2012),
enfocado a expandir el financiamiento de la vivienda a la población actualmente no atendida.




                                                                                                                                                    35
Con los recursos del programa fue posible financiar importantes estudios y consultorías para el
sector de financiamiento a la vivienda y para la implementación de las nuevas líneas
estratégicas definidas para la institución:


      “Desarrollo e Implementación del Sistema de Valuación y Análisis de BORHIS?.
       SHF mediante este proyecto contrató los servicios de una compañía de software
       financiero de productos estructurados para configurar e implantar una herramienta que
       la ayude a determinar, monitorear y analizar los precios, costos y riesgos financieros del
       portafolio de BORHIS y demás IFRH de la institución haciendo uso, como base principal
       de sus cálculos, de los flujos de la calculadora existente en la plataforma de SAS
       Implementada en SHF.
       La conjunción de estas dos herramientas dotó a SHF de mayor capacidad analítica para
       mejorar el seguimiento y el análisis de los Instrumentos Financieros Respaldados por
       Hipotecas proporcionando información más completa para soportar la toma de
       decisiones.
       I. Se pueden obtener características descriptivas de la cartera subyacente, generación
          de flujos, precios, destacan:
          o Reporte de las características de las emisiones que dan origen a cada una de las
               series.
          o Definición y forma de cálculo de las métricas y/o indicadores, incluyendo gráficas,
               de precio para cada una de las series del BORHI.
          o Análisis de la concentración, precio y riesgo de una serie en el portafolio de SHF.
          o Reporte de las características de cada una de las series que conforman un
               portafolio de series de emisiones de BORHIs.
          o Reporte de comportamiento histórico y actual del desempeño de la cartera
               subyacente.

       II. Desarrollo de una interface con el servidor de SAS para estimar los flujos de los
           cupones de cada uno de los BORHIS y de sus carteras hipotecarias, usando
           diferentes escenarios.
           o Se reportan las características de las emisiones.
           o Se muestran características de comportamiento de la cartera subyacente.
           o Selección de diferentes escenarios y métricas de recuperación.

      “Reingeniería de Procesos Sustantivos de la SHF?. El objetivo principal de este
       proyecto consistió en realizar una Reingeniería de los Procesos Sustantivos,
       permitiendo a SHF alinearse con su misión y visión bajo las siguientes vertientes:
          Eficiencia Operativa
                   o Incorporar visión de servicio al cliente a sus procesos
                   o Simplificar procesos (duplicidades / zonas grises)
                   o Automatizar
                   o Definir niveles de servicio
                   o Implementar metodología de mejora continua
          Control interno
                    o Identificar controles para mitigar riesgos
          Institucionalización de la información
          Alineación de políticas, procedimientos y personal




                                                                                              36
    El proyecto tuvo, como objeto inicial, los siguientes procesos Sustantivos y su
    relación con los procesos de Apoyo dentro de SHF:
    1. Crédito (Corto y Largo Plazo).
    2. Garantía de Incumplimiento (GPI).
    3. Seguro de Crédito a la Vivienda (SCV).
    4. Garantía Pago Oportuno (GPO) (líneas).
    5. Garantía Financiera (fideicomisos).
    6. SWAP Salario Mínimo UDIS.
    7. Tesorería y Mercado de Dinero.
    8. Productos Derivados.
    9. Bursatilización (Procesos de apoyo para el desarrollo de bursatilización       de
hipotecas).
    10.        Nuevos productos.
    11.        Integración de Nuevos Intermediarios Financieros.




    Se definieron, con base en las mejores prácticas de entidades bancarias y
    aseguradoras, los siguientes lineamientos:
    o Figura (rol) de relación con intermediarios por tipo de Entidad Financiera (con
      contacto con el cliente y con conocimiento de todos los productos de SHF)
    o Figura (rol) de originación / estructuración de negocio especializado por familia
      de productos (con contacto con el cliente con acompañamiento de Rol de
      Relación)
    o Plataformas de operación comunes por familia de producto (Crédito, Productos
      de Tesorería, Seguros y Garantías, Gestión de Bursatilizaciones)
    o Administración de productos y servicios centralizado (a partir de la disposición de
      recursos)
    o Proceso de definición y control de riesgos separado del proceso de operaciones
      (incluye riesgo operativo, riesgo de colateral, riesgo de contraparte, riesgo de
      mercado, riesgo de crédito, riesgo de liquidez, riesgo financiero)
    o Consolidación de la función de control para Crédito y Garantías y Seguros
    o Consolidación de la función de aclaraciones operativas para todos los productos
      y servicios
    o Utilización de plataformas institucionales




                                                                                      37
        Adicionalmente se incluyó la figura de Interacción con Sistemas para apoyar la
        intermediación entre el negocio y el soporte tecnológico que se requiere por parte
        SHF.
   “Asistencia Técnica Hipotecaria para Entidades de Ahorro y Crédito Popular?.
    Durante 2007 y 2008, la Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF) en conjunto con la
    Corporación Financiera Internacional (IFC por sus siglas en Inglés) desarrollaron un
    proyecto de asistencia técnica con el apoyo de ShoreBank International Ltd. (SBI) y la
    finalidad de mejorar las capacidades de originación, administración y cobranza del
    crédito hipotecario y crédito puente de cuatro Sofoles mexicanas, las cuales se
    encontraban atendiendo financieramente las necesidades de vivienda del segmento
    mexicano de clase media y tenían posibilidades de ampliar el alcance de sus servicios
    hacia segmentos con menores niveles de ingresos; sin embargo al día de hoy, dichas
    Sofoles no han logrado ampliar su alcance de operación entre la población de la base
    de la pirámide en México.

    En base a lo anterior, la SHF decidió iniciar operaciones con las Entidades de Ahorro y
    Crédito Popular (EACPs), aprovechando su objetivo por atender las necesidades
    financieras de la población que percibe ingresos medios y bajos, objetivo alineado
    perfectamente con el interés de la SHF por propiciar el acceso a la vivienda de calidad
    preferentemente entre los mexicanos que perciben menores ingresos. SHF determinó
    por tanto que las EACPs están en mejores condiciones de ampliar considerable y
    sustentablemente el acceso a créditos para la adquisición de vivienda entre mayores
    segmentos de la población del país.

    El acercamiento e inicio de operaciones de SHF con las EACPs se basó en un
    programa de asistencia técnica implementado directamente por SHF que incluyó: (i)
    Diagnóstico para evaluar el grado de cumplimiento de las EACPs con respecto a los
    requisitos operativos, crediticios, administrativos y tecnológicos para operar líneas de
    crédito de largo plazo, y (ii) La elaboración de la guía SHF para dar Crédito Hipotecario,
    así como la capacitación de personal de las EACP en dicha guía. SHF implementó su
    programa de asistencia técnica en 5 EACPs, las cuales incluyen cuatro Cajas Populares
    y una Microfinanciera en proceso de convertirse en SOFIPO. Adicionalmente SHF
    autorizó líneas de fondeo para cuatro de las cinco instituciones, sin embargo hasta
    principios del 2009 sólo una de ellas, había logrado ejercer los recursos.

    Gracias a esta asistencia técnica:
       1. Las EACPs participantes tienen conformados sus programas de vivienda de
       acuerdo a las mejores prácticas y están colocando o están listas para empezar la
       colocación de los créditos hipotecarios siguiendo las mismos procesos. Asimismo,
       tienen líneas de crédito aprobadas por SHF.
       2. El sistema de ASICOM tiene la funcionalidad adecuada para apoyar el desarrollo
       del portafolio hipotecario de las instituciones, en particular en cuanto a las interfaces
       con SHF y se está trabajando en adaptaciones adicionales para incluir los
       Cofinanciamientos INFONAVIT y hacerlo totalmente compatible con las necesidades
       del mercado al que están orientadas las EACPs.




                                                                                             38
       3. Las EACPs son el vehículo adecuado para atender las necesidades de vivienda
       de segmentos de la población actualmente sin posibilidad de acceder a fuentes de
       financiamiento tradicionales en el mercado de vivienda mexicano.
       4. El esquema de comprobación de ingresos del buen pagador aprobado por SHF
       como parte de este proyecto es un logro muy importante dentro del proyecto que
       permitirá a las EACPs diferenciarse de los demás participantes en el mercado de
       vivienda y en el mediano plazo podrá convertirse en una fuente importante de
       originación de créditos.
       5. Las EACPs tienen la capacidad de realizar los estudios socioeconómicos
       internamente, y basta con que trabajen en el cambio de sus estatutos para incluir
       esta actividad y se registren como agencias de estudios socioeconómicos en SHF,
       con lo cual dejarán de trabajar con agencias externas.
       6. SHF apoya a las EACPs , contactándolas con desarrolladores para impulsar la
       originación de créditos por este canal de ventas. El apoyo de SHF se centra en
       intermediar entre las instituciones y los desarrolladores para asegurarse que los
       procesos de análisis crediticio implementados como parte de este proyecto se
       respetan. Asimismo, las EACPs tienen la ventaja de poder recibir ahorros lo que las
       convierte en las socias ideales para los desarrolladores en la implementación de
       programas que fomenten la permanencia de los socios en los planes de ahorro.
       7. SHF ha desarrollado programas que permiten a las EACPs atender de forma más
       sencilla a sus socios actuales y que hacer uso de sus capacidades internas de
       análisis crediticio especializado en segmentos de personas que no cuentan con
       seguridad social.
       8. SHF se ha beneficiado del desarrollo de capacidades internas de asistencia
       técnica que le permiten replicar las mejores prácticas internacionales en los
       procesos crediticios hipotecarios impartidos a las EACPs del proyecto con nuevos
       intermediarios y monitorear el apego de los intermediarios con los que opera a las
       mejores prácticas internacionales en la originación y administración de carteras
       hipotecarias.


   “Evaluación del Impacto de los Derechos de Propiedad sobre la Inversión en
    Vivienda en México?. SHF llevó a cabo una investigación en campo que permita a SHF
    y al sector financiero de la vivienda en su conjunto, establecer si los hogares que
    cuentan con título de propiedad de sus viviendas han tenido, tienen o tendrán una
    mayor posibilidad de incrementar su patrimonio que aquellos que carecen del mismo.

    Esta investigación se llevó a cabo en las 36 ciudades donde se encuentran localizadas
    las oficinas centrales de los RPP’s de las 32 entidades federativas.




                                                                                       39
         La investigación se dirigió al jefe del hogar de viviendas propias en localidades
         urbanas 32 y/o semiurbanas 33 con ingresos familiares menores o iguales a los seis
         salarios mínimos mensuales.
         Los derechos de propiedad y el bienestar de los hogares son conceptos absolutamente
         inseparables, no obstante, la tasa de escrituración nacional es baja. A partir de la
         información generada por este estudio, se podrá avanzar hacia una política pública
         consistente en un Programa Nacional de Titulación que desarrolle un eficiente sistema
         de incentivos, particularmente para las familias de bajos ingresos en zonas urbanas.
         El impacto externo afectará al mercado de la vivienda al generar información estadística
         científicamente obtenida sobre los hogares que cuentan con título de propiedad de sus
         viviendas, al compararse con aquellos que carecen del mismo considerando ciertas
         variables (institucionales, legales, físicas de la vivienda, económicas y socio-
         demográficas).
         El estudio permitió igualmente:
         o     Establecer el perfil socio-demográfico de la población objetivo, así como sus
               condiciones económicas en base a encuestas realizadas en las viviendas
               seleccionadas. También deberán considerarse las características físicas de las
               viviendas, de su entorno geográfico y contexto institucional.
         o     Conocer las causas o motivos por los que algunas familias disponen de título de
               propiedad de su vivienda y otras no.
         o     Determinar las ventajas económicas y sociales que representan para la población el
               contar con un título de propiedad con respecto a aquellos que carecen del mismo.
         o     Suministrar información de calidad que permita relacionar la seguridad jurídica
               sobre la propiedad de la vivienda y el desarrollo económico y social.
         o     Conocer las preferencias de financiamiento de vivienda de los hogares con y sin
               título de propiedad. Además determinar el acceso de ambas poblaciones al
               mercado formal de crédito.

         “Proceso de Evaluación y Monitoreo de Nuevos Intermediarios Financieros?. SHF
         interesada en incorporar nuevos participantes para la administración de líneas de
         crédito a usuarios finales como SOFIPOS, SOCAPS, SOFOMS34, requería desarrollar
         un modelo de evaluación crediticia específica por cada uno de los diferentes segmentos
         de mercado establecidos de IF, que permitiera eficientar la calificación para la
         incorporación, así como su evaluación periódica, apegadas a la regulación
         correspondiente.
         Gracias a esta consultoría fue posible brindar los siguientes beneficios a SHF:
             o Agilidad en la incorporación de nuevos IFs.
             o Evaluar objetivamente a cada entidad financiera.
             o Contar con un modelo de evaluación financiera, operativa y de gobierno
                 corporativo hacia los IFs.



32
   Localidades con más de 14,999 habitantes.
33
   Localidades de 2,500 a 14,999 habitantes.
34
   Sociedades  Financieras  Populares,  Sociedades  Cooperativas  de  Ahorro  y  Préstamo  y  Sociedades  Financieras  de  Objeto 
Múltiple, respectivamente. 




                                                                                                                              40
          o   Establecer indicadores de aceptación y evaluación de desempeño de los
              intermediarios para la toma de decisiones
          o   Integrar y unificar los criterios de evaluación y monitoreo de los intermediarios.

      Se definieron distintas actividades con la finalidad de establecer un modelo contrastado
      con la información del mercado y las mejores prácticas internacionales, así como una
      herramienta que servirá a SHF para realizar una evaluación que contemple los aspectos
      necesarios para generar una calificación la cual servirá a las 3 áreas involucradas en la
      aceptación y monitoreo del IF:




  (e) Estado de Desembolsos

El estatus final de desembolso por categoría, se muestra a continuación.

                               Descripción                                       USD
    1) Asistencia Técnica                                                      2,946,532.28
    2) Reestructura de Deuda                                               1,000,000,000.00
    Comisiones y cuotas                                                        2,525,000.00
    Total Desembolsado                                                     1,005,471,532.28
    Monto cancelado                                                            4,528,467.72
    Monto Original Contratado                                              1,010,000,000.00



   (f) Evaluación y Lecciones relevantes para el futuro.

Este préstamo representó una excelente oportunidad para SHF por la posición internacional del
Banco Mundial en derivados respecto al mercado doméstico. Las condiciones ofrecidas por
este organismo financiero internacional permitieron que SHF empatara el vencimiento de sus
activos con el de sus pasivos sobre una tasa de interés variable, fortaleciendo así su capacidad
financiera.




                                                                                              41
Con esta restructuración fue posible atender los requerimientos del mercado durante
condiciones financieras desfavorables y desarrollar una expansión gradual para atender a la
población de menores ingresos, incrementando el financiamiento, el volumen de préstamo
hacia estos sectores e integrando nuevos intermediarios financieros.

En este sentido, apoyó a mejorar la capacidad técnica de SHF para brindar atención a los
segmentos del mercado más vulnerables, a través de instrumentos financieros más acordes
con las necesidades de la población objetivo, así como fortalecer la habilidad de integrar y
evaluar a nuevos intermediarios financieros.

Derivado de las diferentes misiones de supervisión realizadas por el equipo de trabajo del
Banco Mundial, fue posible establecer un canal de comunicación continuo con la Gerente de
Proyecto y el grupo de especialistas, lo que permitió una constante retroalimentación en la
definición y redimensionamiento de las acciones y metas del programa, siempre buscando
enriquecer y fortalecer la asistencia técnica requerida para el alcance de los objetivos.

Este trabajo constante y estrecho con el equipo del Banco Mundial también ayudó a identificar
nuevas áreas de oportunidad para SHF ajenas al objetivo del préstamo; como la exploración
de productos para atacar nuevos segmentos de mercado, tal como la vivienda en renta, que
cada vez tomará más relevancia dentro de la política de vivienda para atender el rezago
habitacional y la demanda de vivienda que existen en el país.

El haber implementado el proyecto, calzando el balance de Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal y
ampliando su capacidad de financiamiento, conllevó a generar un mayor impacto en el sector,
necesario para poder mitigar los efectos de la crisis económica internacional. Particularmente,
este beneficio se ha traducido actualmente en una mayor capacidad de acción en el mediano y
largo plazo para la prevención y atención de cualquier eventualidad a presentarse en el
mercado hipotecario mexicano.

El apoyo del Banco Mundial ha sido clave para la implementación del mapa estratégico de
SHF y, a pesar de la turbulencia financiera de los últimos años, que afectó principalmente el
sector de la vivienda en México, fue posible reorientar los objetivos del préstamo y las líneas
de acción de SHF para atender los problemas que se han presentado; consolidando así, la
relación de SHF con el organismo financiero internacional.

Para continuar atendiendo los diferentes requerimientos del sector para el desarrollo de los
mercados primario y secundario de vivienda, será necesario allegarse de más recursos
internacionales y continuar trabajando con socios estratégicos como el Banco Mundial.




                                                                                                  42
                            Borrower’s Comments (Un-official translation)

Overall, the loan strengthened SHF’s capacity that allowed it to stabilize the market and eventually
move down market. The IBRD loan was an excellent opportunity for SHF. Access to IBRD’s long-term
funding and international position permitted SHF to balance its asset and liabilities s and strengthening
overall financial capacity. The debt restructuring allowed SHF to attend to the needs of the market during
unfavorable conditions as well as gradually develop down market expansion to lower-income households
through increased financing and loan volume to these sectors and working with new financial
intermediaries. In this way, the IBRD loan helped improve SHF’s technical capacity to serve more
vulnerable market segments with financial instruments tailored to their needs. The loan also helped SHF
gain a stronger ability to integrate and evaluate new financial intermediaries that served that segment.

Implementation of this project strengthened SHF’s capacity but also had a larger impact on the housing
sector, which was necessary to mitigate impacts of the global economic crisis. This benefit is particularly
apparent through SHF’s enhanced capacity to take medium and long term actions.

Good communication between the SHF and IBRD teams allowed for constant learning and
feedback, helped to shape specific actions and program goals and often resulted in finding ways to
add enriching technical assistance. Ongoing communication channels were established in the World
Bank supervision missions between SHF and the IBRD project leader and group of experts. The
collaboration with the World Bank team also allowed SHF to identify new opportunities for SHF beyond
the scope of the loan. This includes exploring products for new market segments such as rental housing,
which is increasingly relevant in the Mexican context.

IBRD assistance has been critical to implement SHF’s strategic plan. The economic turbulence of
the past few years hit the housing sector the hardest in Mexico, but it was still possible to re-align the
loan objectives of the loan and SHF actions to respond to emergent problems, and strengthening the
relationship with the World Bank. For SHF to continue to serve the needs of the primary and
secondary housing sector markets, access to more international resources will continue to be necessary,
along with continued work with strategic partners like the World Bank.

Conditions at appraisal and leading up to the loan. On June 27 2008, a World Bank identification
mission took place to jointly study a potential new financing to support SHF’s 2008-2012 strategic plan.
In August of 2008, SHF, the International Affairs Unit of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
(SHCP), and the IBRD signed a memorandum of understanding for the preparation of a ‘Private Housing
Finance Markets Strengthening Project’ including the amount and term at USD 1,010 million over 30
years, and the core components of the loan as (1) strengthening SHF’s balance and (2) Technical
assistance. In September of 2008, an evaluation mission examined SHF’s financial management,
technical, administrative and systems capacity. The SHF, the IBRD and the International Affairs Unit of
SHCP signed a memorandum of negotiation on the technical terms of legal documents of the loan and
monitoring indicators to be linked to disbursement on October 9, 2008. On November 6 of 2008, the
World Bank Board of Directors approved the loan to finance the project, along the parameters discussed
above, and guaranteed by the Federal Government through the SHCP:

         Loan agreement date                              November 11, 2008
         Guarantee of loan agreement                      November 11, 2008
         Effectiveness date                               November 25, 2008
         Original loan closing date                       March 30, 2012
         Modified loan closing date                       December 31 2012




                                                                                                             43
The primary objective of the loan was to (a) strengthen the financial capacity of SHF to develop and
consolidate markets for housing finance expand access to lower-income persons in the medium-term, and
(b) to improve SHF’s technical capacity to achieve this market expansion for lower-income groups and
enable them to access the mortgage market through a variety of housing solutions.

Operational efficiency was ensured by coordinating responsibilities for project implementation
across the branches of SHF. Overall project coordination was managed by the Subdirectorate of
Multilateral Relations and Housing Consulting, under the Business Development Directorate. As the
formal administrative unit coordinating the project, specific responsibilities included task coordination
and information sharing among SHF’s operational areas, follow-up on agreements taken by these units,
ensuring compliance with their implementation plans, and management and monitoring for the
contractual responsibilities from the Loan Agreement including aide memoires to evaluate progress and
identify next steps to advance project implementation, preparing TORs. Also, as the first contact point
with the IBRD, the subdirectorate provided oversight, project monitoring and a flow of information about
the project areas.
Responsibilities for the financial management of the loan were coordinated by the General Directorate of
Finance through the Treasury Directorate and Subdirectorate of Financing, the Directorate of Financial
Planning and the Directorate of Derivates and Financial Analysis. These activities included monitoring
project implementation and fulfillment of objectives, communicating with the IBRD about any changes in
status on the financial components of the loan, joint coordination of the IBRD missions and work plans
with the Coordinating Unit, manage and negotiate all financial conditions of the loan with the IBRD,
supervision of accounts, and submitting monthly notices to SHCP on the Loan accounts and financial
status of the project.

Notes on technical assistance components. Resources from the technical assistance component
sponsored important studies and consultations on the financial housing sector and enabled
implementation on several new strategic efforts, including:

   Development and implementation of the BORHIS evaluation and analytical system. SHF
    contracted the services of a financial software company to configure and implement a tool that could
    allow the company to determine, monitor and analyze the prices, costs and financial risks of the
    BORHIS portfolio and the rest of IFRH. The system was also able to use the cash flows of the
    existing calculations of the SAS platform implemented in SHF as their base. The joint use of these
    two tools gave SHF a greater analytical capacity by providing up to date information, the ability to
    follow and analyze the IFRH, and support decision making. Analytical and support services included
    (a) access to descriptive characteristics of the underlying portfolio that generate cash flow such as
    reports of the characteristics of the emissions that generate each series; definition and calculation of
    the metrics and/or indicators, including price graphics, for each of the BORHIS series, concentration
    analysis, price and risk of a series of the SHF portfolio, reporting characteristics of each of the series
    that conform to the portfolio of emission series of BORHIS, report of the historical and current
    behavior of the performance of the underlying portfolio. Further, a SAS server interface was
    developed to estimate flows of each of the BORHIS vouchers and its housing portfolios, using
    different scenarios, including emissions reports, portfolio performance characteristics and selection of
    various scenarios and methods of recuperation.

   Re-engineering SHF’s central processes. The principal objective was to undertake a Central Process
    Re-engineering that would permit SHF to align actions with the mission and vision through (a)
    operational Efficiency, including customer service, simplification of duplicated processes and grey




                                                                                                           44
    areas, automation, and processes for continuing improvement, (b) internal controls including the
    identification of risk mitigation processes, (c) systematizing and institutionalizing information, and
    (d) overall alignment of politics, procedures and personnel. The ‘re-engineering’ included analysis of
    many of SHF’s central operations, including those for short and long-term lending, non-compliance
    guarantees, housing lending insurance, guarantees of timely payment, fideocomisos, currency (pesos
    and UDI) swaps, derivative products, processes of support for the development of mortgage titling,
    new products, and integration of new financial intermediaries. On the basis of best banking and
    insurance practices guidelines were established on the relationships with intermediaries, structuring
    families of products, platforms for the common operations among groups of products (including
    lending, guarantees etc.), administration of centralized products and services, defining and controlling
    risk separate from the control of operations (including operative risk, collateral risk, opposing party
    risk, market risks, credit risk, liquidity risk, financial risk), consolidating oversight of credit,
    guarantees and insurance, consolidation of the operative clarifications functions for all products and
    services and use of institutional platforms.

   “Technical Mortgage Assistance for Popular Credit and Savings Entities.“ In 2007 and 2008, SHF
    and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) developed a technical assistance project with the
    support of Shorebank Internationa Ltd. (SBI) with the aim of improving the administration and
    mortgage credit coverage of four Mexican SOFOLES, which were found to be serving the financial
    needs of the Mexcian middle class and had the possibility of widening the reach of their services to
    lower-income households. Nevertheless, these SOFOLES had not sufficiently widened the reach of
    their operations and services to the Mexican population at the base of the pyramid.

    As a result, SHF decided to test an intermediary relationship with Savings and Credit Institutions
    (SCIs) to better reach its goals of meeting the financial needs of low and lower middle income
    households--an objective that aligned well with SHF’s interest in expanding low-income access to
    quality housing. SHF determined that the SCIs were the best-situated potential intermediaries to
    expand access for this large sector of the population. More generally, this process of technical
    assistance gave SHF knowledge and experience that it can apply to other downmarket intermediaries.
    The coordination between SHF and the SCIs was based on a program of technical assistance
    implemented directly by SHF. It included: i) diagnostics to evaluate the ability of the SCI to meet the
    operative, credit, administrative and technological requirements and to operate credit lines over the
    long term. (ii) elaboration of SHF guidance to give mortgage credit, and the training of SCI
    personnel. SHF implemented its technical assistance program in each of the five SCIs and authorized
    funding for four of the five institutions. As a result of this technical assistance, the participating SCIs
    have aligned their housing products to the best practices model and are either ready to begin, or have
    already begun, to put in place the mortgage credits in line with these same procedures.

    Several other technical approaches encouraged by SHF set the groundwork for potential expansion of
    lending. These include (i) the ASICOM system is functioning well enough to support the
    development of the institutions’ housing portfolios and the SHF interface, and are working on
    creating new adaptations to include INFONAVIT co-financing; (ii) a tool to for income verification
    which was approved by SHF as part of this project is an important achievement that will allow for the
    EACPs to differentiate themselves from other participants in the housing markets, and, in the




                                                                                                            45
    medium-term, will be an important source of credit; and (iii) ability among SCIs to create internal
    socioeconomic studies (iv) SHF support to the SCIs by putting them in contact with developers, with
    credit analysis mechanisms in place including (v) strengthened ability to perform credit analyses for
    households not affiliated with social security.

   Evaluation of the Impact of Property Rights on Housing Investment in Mexico. SHF conducted
    field research to establish whether homes that have property titles have had, have, or will have more
    likelihood of increased worth than those who lack titles. This research was conducted in 36 cities
    where the local offices of the RPP’S of the 32 federal entities are found. The research was based on
    the responses of urban (and semi urban) head of households with family income that was either less
    than or equivalent to the six minimal monthly salaries. Findings concluded that property rights and
    household wellbeing are closely connected, but the rate of national registration is low, and a National
    Titling Program could help develop an efficient system of incentives for low income families in urban
    areas. The study compared households with and without titles, and, taking into account the location of
    the home and its institutional context, contributed to knowledge on why some families are motivated
    to gain a title for their property and others are not, determine the economic and social advantages of
    having a title over not having a title, generate data on the relationship between the legal home security
    and economic and social development, and understand the financial preferences of households with
    and without titles and determine the access of both populations to the formal credit market.

   Process of Evaluating and Monitoring new financial intermediaries. SHF’s interest in
    incorporating new financial intermediaries required the development of a model of credit evaluation
    that is specific to each of the different market segments and allow for more efficient evaluation of the
    potential for inclusion and supervision. As a result of this Technical Assistance, SHF benefitted
    through new capacities for (i) agile incorporation of the new financial intermediaries, (ii) objective
    evaluation of each financial entity, (iii) financial model to evaluate intermediary operations (iv)
    establishing indicators, thresholds and performance evaluation processes for intermediaries, and (v)
    standardizing monitoring and evaluation criteria for the intermediaries.




                                                                                                          46
                      To
                  Los Angeles            115°W                                       110°W                                                  105°W                                             100°W                                       95°W                                90°W                                     85°W
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                        Albuquerque
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                      To                                                               Alamogordo
                                                                   Gila Bend
                 Tijuana
                            Mexicali                                                                                                                                 UNIT ED STAT ES O F A MER I CA
                 Ensanada
                                                    Sonoita
                                     San                                                                                       Ciudad Juárez                                To
                                   Felipe                                                                                                                                   Midland
                                                                    Nogales                                                    Ri o




                                                                                                                                  Rio rav
                                                                                          Agua
                                BAJA                                                      Prieta                                            ra n                                                                                                                             MEXICO




                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30°N




                                                                                                                                      B
                                                                                                                                       o           d                               To
                30°N         CALIFORNIA                                                                                                                                            San Antonio




                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                    Gu

                                                                         SONORA
                                                                                                            CHIHUAHUA




                                                                                          Yaqui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                       lf


                                                                                                                                       Ojinaga                                                                             San Antonio
                                                               Hermosillo                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                          of




                                                                                 Si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Houston


                                                                                   er
                                                                                                             Chihuahua                                                           Sal
                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                     ra




                                                                                                                                                                           Sie
                                                                           Guaymas
                                                                al




                                                                                                                                                                                     do
                                                         Santa
                                                                   if




                                                        Rosalia




                                                                                                                                                                            rra
                                                                                          M                              Con
                                                                                                                             chos
                                                                     or




                                                                                            ad                                                                                                 Laredo
                                                  BAJA                         Navojoa                                                                               COAHUILA
                                                                        ni




                                                                                                  re
                                                                                                            Fue
                                               CALIFORNIA                                                       r   te                                                                   Frontera
                                                                           a




                                                                                                                                                                                 Ma
                                                   SUR                                                                                                                                      NUEVO
                                                                                                   O
                                                               Loreto




                                                                                                                                                                                  dre
                                                                                                       cc

                                                                                Los Mochis                                                                                                   LEON                                                  Gu l f of M e xi co                                                        25°N
                                                                                                       id

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Monterrey               Matamoros
                25°N                                                                                                                                    Torreón
                                                                                                        en

                                                                                                                                                                             Saltíllo
                                                                                                             ta SI




                                                                                                                                                                                          Or
                                                                                                  Culiacán
                                                                                                                l NA


                                                                                                                               DURANGO
                           PAC IF IC                                           La Paz                                                                                                                    TAMAULIPAS




                                                                                                                                                                                           ie
                                                                                                                                  Durango




                                                                                                                                                                                             nt
                                                                                                                         LO




                           OC E AN                                                                                                                                ZACATECAS                                    Ciudad




                                                                                                                                                                                               al
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Victória
                                                                                                                          A




                                                                                                            Mazatlán
                                                               Cabo San Lucas
                                                                                                                                                               Zacatecas             SAN LUIS
                                                                                      AGUASCALIENTES                                                                                  POTOSI                              Tampico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         QUERÉTARO
                                                                                                                                                                                            San Luis
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                               NAYARIT Aguascalientes                                       Potosí
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       YUCATAN             Cancun
                                                                                                                                                       Ler




                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                        Tepic               a                                                          VERACRUZ                                                         Merida
                                                                                                                                                           m




                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                   GUANAJUATO                                                                            Guanajuato                                       HIDALGO
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                    110°W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cozumel
                                                                                                                Puerto Vallarta                                      Guadalajara                    Querétaro                                 DISTRITO FEDERAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pachuca                      TLAXCALA                  Campeche
                                                                                              20°N                                            JALISCO                                                                                                                                                    QUINTANA
                                                                                                                                                                                               MEXICO
                                MEXI C O                                                                MEXICO                                                              Morelia                                                  Jalapa          Bay of Campeche
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY                                                                                                     ROO
                                                                                                                                                                                             Toluca                       Tlaxcala         Veracruz                                                             Chetumal
                                                                                                                                                   Colima                                                                       Citlaltépetl (5,747 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                            Cuernavaca
                                                                                                                                            COLIMA                   MICHOACAN                                       Puebla                                                      CAMPECHE
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                       PUEBLA                                TABASCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Balsas                                                          Villahermosa                                       Gulf of
                                     STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                      GUERRERO             Chilpancingo                                                      Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BELIZE   Honduras
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                              um
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sie                Oaxaca                                   CHIAPAS           ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                                               Acapulco             rra               OAXACA                           Tuxtla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            re de                                 Gutierrez
                                     MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                   l S u r Tehuantepec
                                                                                                                                                                                          MORELOS                         Puerto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15°N
                                     RAILROADS                                                                      0      100          200              300 Kilometers                                               Escondido                       Gulf of                 GUATEMALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HONDURAS
NOVEMBER 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tehuantepec




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33447R
                                                                                              15°N                                                                                                                                                               Tapachula
                                     STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               San Salvador
                                                                                                                    0     50          100     150          200 Miles
                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EL
                                                                                                                                       105°W                                                     100°W                                              95°W                                                  SALVADOR
