Docwment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
G1z2 20/1 
R_ptl No. 7513-C
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 17, 1989
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
Agricultural Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnae of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorizatio.



CURUNCY gQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Yuan (Y)
US$1.00      *  Y3.7
Y 1.00       *  USS0.27
FISCA  YEA
January 1 co December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (i)          -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    a  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       a  2.47 acres
1 mu                 a  0.067 ha
1 ton (t)            a  1,000 kg
- 2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 kg                 -  2.2 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC           - Agricultural Bank of China
AITC          -  Agriculture Industry and Trade Corporation
BOF           -  Bureau of Finance
CAS           -  Chinese Academy of Sciences
CAAS          -  Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CEROILS       -  China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and
Export Corporation
DAP           -  Diamionium Phosphate
ECH           -  Engineering Command Headquarter
FITC          -  Forestry Industry and Trade Corporation            d
FTB           -  Foreign Trade Bureau
FTC           -  Foreign Trade Corporation
GAIC          -  General Admiaistration of Industry and Comierce
GVAO          -  Gross Value of Agri.ultural Output
HECH          -  Haihe Engineering Comnand Headquarter
IAMO         -  Irrigation Area Management Office
ITC, CNTIC   -  International Tendering Company, China National
Technical Import Corporation
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB           -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOF           -  Ministry of Finance
MOFERT        -  Ministry of Fcceign Economic Relations and Trade
PC            -  Planning Comission
PCBC          -  People's Construction Bank of China
PO            -  Project Office
PREDIC        -  Provincial Rural Economic Development and Investment
Corporation
RCRD          -  Research Center for Rural Development
SAAF          -  Shandong Association of Agricultural Funds
SPC           -  State Planning Comuission
WFP           -  World Food Program



FOR OFFICAL WU  ONLY
SHANDONG AGRICUU URAL DKVEI)PtKNT PROJEC
Credit and Project SuMarv
borrower:         People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:   Shandong Provincial Government
Credit Amount:   SDR 82.5 million (US$109 million equivalent)
Credit Terms:    Standard, with 35 years maturity
Relending Terms: From Government to Shandong Province: 20 years, including five
years of grace, with interest at 5.5% and a commitment fee of
0.5% p.a. Onlending rates to final beneficiaries would be no
less than Agricultural Bank of China charges on subloans for
similar purposes with similar maturities.
Objectives and   The main objective of the project would be to increase rural
Description:      insomes through agricultural development in three components:
(a) an expansion and improvement of irrigation covering 271,600
ha of mainly foodgrains in the Tuhai Basin; subcomponents would
also finance pasture development, production of Chinese dates,
tree planting, cattle, sheep and poultry; and provision of
fertilizer, machinery and equipment, seed centers, fruit
processing plants, and technical service centers; (b) a
significant upgrade of the livestock subsector in the Yi Meng
Mountains poverty area through the establishment of breeding
and multiplication farms for rabbits, pigs, poultry and geese
and processing facilities for feed and livestock products and
improvement of veterinary and extension services that make
special provision for the predominantly women livestock
farmers, and (c) establishment of mariculture in coastal
wastelands through construction of shrimp ponds and growing
structures for abalone, scallops and sea cucumber culture and
provision of hatcheries, cold stores, feed mills, technical
service centers, vehicles and boats. The project would also
provide technical assistance and training for technical a:id
managerial staff.
Benefits
and Risks:                 At full development, annual incremental production
would be about 147,000t wheat, 156,000t corn, 15,000t soybeans,
1,100t peanuts, 36,000t cotton, 55,000t vegetables, 65,000 t
dates, 206,000 cu m timber, 10,000t rabbit meat, 8,000t pork,
4,500t beef and lamb, 2 m. geese, 3.8 m. broilers, 120t rabbit
hair, i,300t wool, 8,800t shrimp and 16,000t specialty sea
food. Per capita incomes would increase by 55% for 1.3 m
families in the Tuhai Basin from crops alone and by 115% for
200,000 families in the Yi Meng area. Annual output in
mariculture would increase by US$25 m. Significant employment
would be created in all three components; employment creation
for women would be notable in the Yi Meng component. No major
risks are anticipated.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreian     Total
- - -  (US$ million) - - -
Tuhai Basin Agriculturirl Development
Irrigation and Drainage                  47.6         19.1      66.7
Agriculture and Forestry                  5.5         14.3      19.8
Livestock Production                      2.0          1.4       3.4
Agro-processing                           7.5          5.3      12.8
Sub-total                            62.6        40.1      102.7
Coastal hariculture Development
Shrimp Production                        61.2         30.6      91.8
Exotic Seafood Production                 5.4         13.1      18.5
Sub-total                            66.6         43.7     110.3
Yi Meng Mountains Livest,ick Development
Livestock Production                      6.5          3.4       9.9
Agrc-processing                          14.4         13.0      27.4
Sub-total                            20.9         16.4      37.3
Institutional Support                        0.3          0.6       0.9
Base Cost /a                        150.4        100.8     251.2
Physical ContingencJes                       5.0          3.0       8.0
Price Contingencies                          8.1          5.0      13.1
Total Project Cost                  163.5        108.8     272.3
FinancinR Plan
IDA                                   0.2        108.8     109.0
Central Government                   10.8            0      10.8
Provincial Government                 7.0            0       7.0
Municipal/County Governments        113.2            0     113.2
Agricultural Bank of China           32.3            0      32.3
Total                               163.5        108.8     272.3
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY                      1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual                      22.0    32 0    36.0    14.0      5.0
Cummulative                 22.0    54.0    90.0   104.0   109.0
Economic Rate of Return:    Tuhai: 342   Coastal: 24Z   Yi Meng: 35Z
Overall Project: 292
…-------------------------------.-------------------_-------_---__----_------_
/a Project is exempt from taxes and duties.



cUIN
SHANDOG AGRICULTMRAL DEVELOPMENT'PROJEC
Table of Contents
I.    BACKGROUND    ....................................................  
A.  Introduction                ......................................
B.   The Agricultural Sector   ......              .....................      1
C.   Fisheries Subsector   ...............................                    2
D.   Livestock Subsector   ...............................                    2
E.   Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending   ....                ..........    3
F.   Agriculture in Shandong   ...........................                    5
G.   Projact Rationale   .................................                    6
II.   THE PROJECT AREAS   .....................................                     8
A.   Location of Project Areas   .........................                    8
B.   Climate,  Topography,  Soils and Water Resources                ....     8
C.   Land Use,  Farm Size and Population   ....               ............    9
D.   Present Development   ...............................                    9
E.   Infrastruwture   ....................................    11
F.   Support Services ....................................    12
III. THE PROJECT   .          ..........................................    14
A.   Project Objectives and Relation to Sector  ....                ......   14
B.   Project Description  ........             ........................    14
C.   Project Features  .........            ..........................    17
D.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality ....................    23
E.   Status of Design  .........            ..........................    25
F.   Implementation Schedule  ............................    25
G.   Cost Estimates  ..........            ...........................    26
H.   Financing  .............          .............................    26
I.   Procurement  ............          ............................    28
J.   Disbursements  ..........           ............................    29
K.   Accounts and Audits   ...............................    30
L.   Environmental Effects  ..............................    30
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   ...........................    31
A.   Project Organization  ...............................    31
B.   Shandong Association of Agricultural Funds  ....               .....   31
C.   The PMO,  PO and HECH  ...............................    32
D.   Corporations  ...........           ............................    33
E. Provincial Rural Economic Development
and Investment Corporation ........................    34
F.   Financial Management  ...............................    34
G.   Execution of Project Works  .........................    35
H.   Monitoring,  Evaluation and Reporting  ....               ...........    36
…--   --  -  --  - --  -  --  - --  -  --  - --  -  --  - --  -  --  - --  -  --  - --  -
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission comprising
R. Jaisaard, L. S. Tay, W. P. Ting (IDA), H. Gunawardena, R. Raturi (FAO/CP)
C.Cronberg, J. C. Delouche and J. Leake (consultants) in July 1988; and an
appraisal mission comprising R. Jaisaard, L. S. Tay , v' P. Ting and R.
Vick (IDA) in September 1988.



V.   PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES ....... ................   37
A.  Production .........................................   37
B.  Marketing for Export ..........     .....................   40
C.  Markets ...........................................    41
D.  Prices ...........................................    43
VI.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ......       ................   45
A.  Benefits  ..........................................   45
B.  Employment and Incomes ........      .....................   45
C.  Job Opportunities for Women .......       .................   46
D.  Cost Recovery .......................................   47
E.  Financial and Economic Analysis ......       ..............  47
F.  Risks ...........................................          52
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....       .............   53
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1  Irrigation Areas ..................................   17
3.2  Summary of Water Balance ..........................   24
3.3  Project Cost Summary  .............................   27
3.4  Procurement Profile  .............................    28
5.1  Cropped Areas, Yields and Production .............   38
6.1  Summary of Economic Analysis  ......       ...............   50
AENNEXES
1.   Background Data
Project Area Statistics
Climate
Water Supply and Demand
2.   Cost Data
Cost Summary
Expenditure Schedule
Detailed Cost Estimates for Irrigation Works
Detailed Cost Estimates for Machinery, Equipment,
and Materials
Detailed Cost Estimates for Technical Assistance and Training
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3.   Feed Requirements
Farm Models
Financial and Economic Analyses
Border Prices for Principal Products and Inputs
Border Prices for Livestock and Livestock Products
Shrimp Econonic Farm-gate Prices
Economic Costs and Benefits
Key Monitoring Indicators



- itii
4.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF CHAR=
1.   Project Organiration
1.   Implementation Schedule
2.   Procurement Schedule
IBRD - 21104 Project Location
IBRD - 21105 Irrigation System
IBRD - 21106 Shrimp Pond Layout



CIA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVEKIPKENT PROJECT
I. MBCKGROUND
A. lnroduction
1.1       The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing an integrated agricultural development project in the Province of
Shandong. The project would cover 22 counties ar.d havet three major components:
(a) development of irrigated and rainfed agriculture and livestock in 12
counties in the Tuhai River Basin, (b) expansion of mariculture production of
shrimp, shellfish and sea-cucumber in four north-coastal counties, and (c) the
development of livestock enterprises in eight poor, mountainous, south-central
counties. The project was presented to the Bank in September 1987. It was
prepared by the Shandong Provincial Government, with preparation of one
component (Tuhai) financed under the North China Plain Agriculture Project (Cr.
1261-CHA) and with the overall assistance of an FAO/CP mission in March 1988.
A Preappraisal Mission visited the project areas in July 1988, and the project
was appraised in September 1988.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.2       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people; it is a major source
of income for some 190 million farm families and accounts for about 30% of the
country's GDP. Only about 137 million of China's 960 million hectares are
arable but nearly half of the arable land is irrigated. Foodgrains occupy
about 70% of the crop land and account for about one-third of total agricul-
tural output. China has been able to meet the basic food requirements of its
population, about 22% of the world s total, from less than 11% of the world's
arable land by developing an intensive farming system with large inputs of
labor, chemical and organic fertilizer and water.
1.3       Since the introduction of economic reforms in 1979, China has adopted
many bold measures to restructure and liberalize its rural economy, _vi. the
dismantling of the communes and the shift to the household production responsi-
bility system, the rapid monetization and commercialization of rural economic
activities, major increases in farm prices, the reintroduction of free markets,
and an improvement in public Eector marketing and distribution networks.
Farmers have been given greater autonomy over choosing cropping patterns and
diversifying their activities. Results have been dramatic: production has
increased by over 10% per year since 1980, a spectacular increase over the
historical 3% growth during the preceding two decades, and despite a rsduction
in area sown, grain output steadily increased to a peak level of 407 million
tons in 1984, 34% greater than 1978. In 1985, the Government instituted
another phase of the reforms, replacing compulsory procurement quotas with
voluntary contracts, adjusting procurement prices and greatly enlarging the
role of the market. These measures per-iitted farmers to shift production into
higher-value livestock and cash crops and as a result, grain productior. levels
fell to 379 and 391 million tons in 1985 and 1986, respectively, before
rebounding to 402 million tons in 1987.



1.4       As the reforms continue, a major challenge to China's agrlculture
will be to maintain an adequate growth rate while accommodating the continued
shift in consumer demand in response to increasing per capita incomes and
population growth. Provision of adequate grain to the population and expansion
of exports continue to have high priority. There exist today a number of
policy and institutional consttaints involving pricing policy, public invest-
pent and agricultural taxation and saving that hinder the performance of the
agricultural sector. To address these constraints, Chinese planners are
implementing a series of policy reform initiatives aiming to foster
agricultural development and specialization, increase efficiency, encourage
non-farm industrial and commercial rural enterprises, expand rural exports,
provide productive off-farm emplcvment, improve agricultural tax buoyancy, and
improve the range and efficiency of rural financial services. The Bank Group
is supporting these reforms through a Rural Sector Adjustment Loan (Cr. 1932-
CHA and Ln. 2967-CHA).
C. Fisheries Subsector
1.5       China's fisheries subsector, including culture and capture production
from both marine and freshwater sources, accounts for about 1.5% of the gross
value of agricultural output (GVAO). Total fish production, most of which is
cot,sumed domestically, increased from 4.5 million tons in 1980 to around 9.4
million tons in 1987, an increase of over 100%. This increase was mainly due
to the rapid growth of marine and freshwater fish culture, which over the same
period increased from 1.4 to 4.9 million tons. Capture fisheries still proviae
a significant proportion, although growth rates have been low, since many
coastal and inland waters have been exploited heavily. In .,fact, the output
from freshwater capture fisheries is expected to decline in the future because
of overfishing and pollution. Because of the limited growth potential in
capture fisheries, Government policy since the early 1980's has aimed at
shifting the production structure from capture to culture fisheries to achieve
growth in output. Despite the overall steady growth in the sector, per capita
consumption is only 9 kg, which Is low compared to other East and Southeast
Asian countries.
l.b       China has some 5 million ha (75 million mu) of freshwater bodies and
1.3 million ha (20 million mu) of coastal waters suitable for aquaculture (but
not for agriculture). About 60% of the freshwater area and 22% of the coastal
areas are presently in use. The existenze of extensive unutilized areas
suitable for culture fisheries and the fact that significant increases in
yields may be realized through application of new technology and management
methods led the Government in the early 1980s to adopt an ambitious program to
expand annual fisheries production to 11 million tons by the year 2000. This
would appear to be easily attainable, given current production levels.
D. Livestock Subsector
1.7       Livestock comprised 14% of the value of agricultural output in 1986.
Of total meat production, pigs contributed about 88%, poultry 8% and other
livestock only 4%. Pig production was recently estimated to be a few
percentage points lower than the 1986 level. Exports of live animals and
livestocs products exceeded $500 million in 1986, and accounted for about 2% of
China's total expoit value that year. Like other agricultural subsectors, the



-3-
livestock sector also benefitted from the major policy changes of 1979. Since
then, patterns of ownership and management have changed sharply.  More than 90%
of all hogs and an even larger share of poultry are now privately owned. A
further set of liberalization reforms in the production and marketing of
livestock and feed were put in place in 1985. These reforms (and earlier ones)
appear to have had massive impacts on livestock production. From 1984 to 1986,
the poputlation of pigs rose 10% to 337 million. Red meat, milk and egg
production also rose substantially in the two-year period - by 18%, 33% and
26%, respectively. A change in the distribution pattern for pigs has also been
obseeved; sales by the state marketing entities in urban areas fell, wh/le
direct marketing by farmers increased. Direct procurement from smallholders by
catering, processing and other industries and by private wholesalers also
increased.
1.8       As part of the Gove- ent's effort to improve consumption patterns,
targets have been set for livestock production. By the year 2000, the
contribution of the livestock subsector to gross value of agricultural output
is projected to rise from the current 15% to 25%. The major means to achieve
the livestock production targets include more efficient producticn and
managemeat systems, a higher level of grain feeding, pasture improvement and
the use of animals with greater genetic potential. Technical feasibility would
depend on the availability of grain, grass and protein supplements. Suitable
farmer incentives would also need to be maintained throughout the period.
E.  Sectoral Obiectives and Bank Lending
1.9       The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector are
(a) to increase the production of food, feed, industrial crops and animal
products to meet requirements created by population and income growth, and (b)
to raise income and employment opportunities in rural areas. Given China's
shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita), development planners have focused
on the need to increase the productivity of existing cropped areas and to
efficiently develop the few remaining areas of unutilized land. Steps are also
being taken to stabilize food grain output per capita at the 1984 level (400
kg/capita), increase production and quality of animal feed, livestock, fruit,
fish and industrial crops, and expand agro-processing activities so as to raise
value-added in the farm sector. Improved producer incentives include (a)
enhanced contract systems which reinforce household-level management within
both community and state-owned farm sectors, including longer land leases and
creation of a market in land-use rights; (b) continued expansion of markets for
output; (c) adjustment of producer prices; and (d) establishment ot private,
public and mixed enterprises in rural agro-processing, transport and commerce.
1.10      For fisheries and livestock development, the Government's objectives
are to increase production for domestic consumption and exports, and provide an
additional source of income for the rural population. High-value aquatic
products (shrimp, scallops, eel and abalone) and livestock products (meat,
including rabbit meat, wool and down) are being targeted as export products.
The aquatic development st-ategy emphasizes establishmc  .-f fish culture on
lauid unsuitable for crop cultivation - freshwater culture in swamps,
floodplains, marshes ^nd poorly drained interi.or lands and marine culture in
coastal lowlands, shoals and mudflats. The livestock development strategy



emphasizes the provision of superior breeding s-ock and feed, pasture
improvement and development of new pasture species, the establishment of
processing plants and the provision of supporting services.
1.11      The Bank's lending to China's agricultural sector has supported the
Government's efforts to increase and diversify agricultural production through
more efficient use of land, water, capital and labor resources and through
itprovement of support services such as credit, research and agricultural
ejucation. Past lending to the sector has focussed on land reclamation and
development (North China Plain [Cr. 1261-CHA], Heilongjiang Land Reclamation
[Ln. 2261-CHA/Cr 1347-CHA]) and strengthening agricultural support services
(Agricultural Education and Research [Cr. 1297-CHA], the Second Agricultural
Rese.-rch Project [Cr. 1516-CHA], three rural credit projects [Cr. 1462-CHA, Cr.
1642-CHA, and Cr. 1871-CHk] and the Seeds Project [Cr. 1577-CHA]). Projects
supporting particular subsectors include the Forestry Development Project [Cr.
1605-CHA], the Da Xing An Ling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project [Cr. 1918-
CHA], the Freshwater Fisheries Project [Cr. 1689-CHA], the Rubber Development
Project [Cr. 1417-CHA/SF 5-CHA] and the Coastal Lands Development Project
[Cr.1887-CHA/Ln. 2924-CHA].
1.12      The area development approach, which generally targots difficult
development problems, combines in a single project assistance to land and water
development and support services previously the subject of separate projects.
It takes advantage of increasing delegation of development planning and
implementation to local government authorities in China, which has generated
strong local commitment to the development of profitable and effective
subprojects. The Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project [Ln. 2479/Cr. 1606-
CHA] was the first of this type, followed by the Red Soils Area Development
Project [Cr. 1733-CHA], the Xinjiang Agricultural Development Project [Cr.
1764-CHA], the Gansu Provincial Development Project [Cr. 1793-CHA] and the
Northern Irrigation Project [Cr. 1885-CHA].
1.13      The Bank is now preparing a series of provincial projects in which
the area development approach is being applied and in which the responsibility
for repaying project funds will rest with the provincial government. This is a
new direction intended to increase the efficiency of project management and
execution and to expand the Bank's involvement in provincial agricultural
investment programs, which now constitute the bulk of all investment in the
sector. The Shan4ong Agricultural Development Project is one of the first of
these.
1.14      Implementation of most ongoing Bank-Group-financed projects in the
agriculture sector is on schedule. Experience in previous Bank agricultural
projects in China is that physical works have been on time or ahead of
schedule. Disbursements for agricultural projects usually outpace those in
other sectors. Notable features of all the projects are the high standard of
project management, the enthusiastic participation of farmers and the effective
collaboration of goverrnent authorities at all levels. The recently completed
North China Plain Project demonstrates these features and also economic
benefits that far exceed those anticipated at appraisal with an ERR of 56%.
Other important features of the project, which have been or will be of benefit
to the present project and future ones in the Huang-Huai-Hai River area are:
soil and water studies, resulting in cost-saving refinements in project design;



-5
a competent institutLonal framework, able to promote and coordinate
comprehensive rural development in areas reclaimed from sallnity and
waterlogging; and experience in land improvement actlvities and the large-scale
promotlon of technology.
F. Aariculture in ShaW2nd
1.15      Shandong Province is located on the east coast of China at the lover
reaches of the Yellow River. It is roughly dLvisible into three areas, the
large Shandong PenLnsula separatlng the Yellow and Bo Seas, the alluvial plains
area of the Yellow River and the Jlnhang Grvid Canal, and the mountainous area
of the Yi Hong Mountains in the South. Because of the shape ef the peninsula,
the province's coastline is more than 3,000 km long, one-sixth of the national
coastline, and has a number of protected bays. The Yellow River and the Grand
Canal flow through the province for a total length of 1,247 km. At the end of
1987, the population of the province was about 80 million, the third largest
province in China. The agricultural population, 87% of the provincial
population, was 70 million.
1.16      The major food crops in Shandong (by tonnage) are wheat (48%), corn
(31%) and sweet potatoes (12%). The province is one of the country's leading
producers of these crops. Other significant crops are peanuts, cotton,
soybean, other oilseeds, and fruit. Livestock production is mainly by
households, which keep small numbers of pigs, chickens and, recently, sheep and
rabbits. The province is also a major producer of fish, shellfish and seaweed,
both from the sea and from culture, and ranks third in China. Total fish and
shellfish production was about 1.1 million tons in 1987, of which cultured
shellfish accounted for about 7% - cultured shrimp, 34,000 tons, and other
shellfish and seaweed, 210,000 tons. The forested area of the province has
been expanding rapidly in recent years but not fast enough to meet the demand
for lumber. The value of agricultural production in 1986 was US$9.7 billion,
composed of crops (71%), livestock (17%), aquatic products (5%), forestry (3%)
and the value added of processing enterprises (4%).
1.17      With the exception of uneven performance in 1987 because of drought
conditions during the early part of the growing period, the performance of
Shandong agriculture has been strong in recent years, in line with the rapid
increases in agricultural output throughout the whole country following the
rural reforms. The principal crops, wheat and corn, experienced annual growth
rates over the 1980-87 period averaging 9.8% and 5.1%, respectively, by
tonnage. The strong average rate of growth of wheat over the period occurred
despite a drought-induced drop in production in 1987 of 5.6%. (Without
including 1987, the average increase of wheat over the 1980-1986 peliod was
12.6%). The production of sweet potatoes is competitive with grain in the
province and, due to the strong increase in grains, remained stagnant over the
period with an average decline (1980-1987) of 2.1%. Other agricultural output
generally increased in the 1980s as well. Cotton output in 1986 was six times
that of 1978. Aquatic output was 24% over 1978.
1.18      The rapid growth of Shandong agriculture between 1978 and 1987 was
the direct result of improved crop varieties and increased use of irrigation
water, chemical fertilizer and other modern inputs. The move to family
farming, the new market orientation and the price reforms provided farmers with



the incentives to increase production. The province, in 1986, had about
350,000 specialized households (SHs)l and 48,000 new economic joint units2.
Commercial production has developed rapidly, accounting for 57% of total
agricultural production in tho province by 1986.
1.19      The Shandong Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-1990) emphasizes tihe
development of the agricultural sector and rural reforms as important mecha-
nisms to accelerate economic growth. It is expected that the Gross Provincial
Product (GPP) will increase by 8% per year reaching Yuan 91.5 billion in 1990.
Agriculture is expected to be 36% of GPP in 1990 and to increase by 4% per
annum over the period. The Plan calls for (a) increased productivity in grain
and cash crop production, (b) reforestation with fast growing trees in steeply-
sloping areps to conserve soil and water, (c) continued development of animal
husbandry and the feed industry, (d) expansion of aquaculture and improvement
in capture fisheries and in the processing of marine products, and (e) support
for rural development and village enterprises. The Plan also calls for more
assistance to poor areas to alleviate poverty and reduce income disparities.
1.20      Agricultural production is subject to variable weather conditions,
unreliable water supplies and salinity. The 1987 drought is an example of this
vulnerability. In addition, there are extensive areas of low to medium produc-
tivlty in the Tuhai River Basin with alluvial soil and access to Yellow River
water where adequate irrigation would enable considerably higher yields. These
areas in total are about 20% of the cultivated land in the province. Grazing
areas in the Yi Meng Mountains, making up more than 30% of the total uncul-
tivated area in the province, are not being used intensively for livestock
grazing. Improved technology (mainly improved breeds, improved pasture species
and better pasture management) could raise productivity and farmer incomes.
G. Project Rationale
1.21      Bank Group participation would support the Shandong Provincial
Government's economic plan, which aims to accelerate the development of its
agricultural sector by maximising the use of available resources through
improvements in infrastructure and support services, introduction of improved
technology, and strengthened financial and project management. As part of the
Government's efforts toward decentralization, this project would be planned and
implemented by the Province without direct involvement of the central line
ministries. Bank assistance in the design and monitoring of irrigation schemes
in the Tuhai Basin component would lead to more efficient use of water.
Improved crop, livestock, fishery and agro-processing technologies and
equipment introduced under the project would substanzially increase production
and also upgrade the marketability of agricultural products for both domestic
and export markets. Bank involvement in upgrading support services would not
I   A specialized household is a commercialized family farm that theoretically
devotes at least 60% of its time to one activity, with 80% of its output sold
in the market and 50% of its income derived from the activity. In reality, the
SHs do function as dynamic entrepreneurial units, which serve both as reliable
and expanding sources of supply of agricultural commodities and as effective
demonstration farmers in their villages.
2 These comprise cooperatives and other groups of households engaged in joint
investment and production, with their own management and accounting systems.



- 7 -
only finance the improvement of seed technology, t.e utpgrading of extension
facilities and the purchase of inputs but would also improve the efficiency of
extension delivery. In particular, the employment of women extension workers
and village technicians in the Yi Keng component would improve the efficiency
of extension services for the predominantly women livestock raisers in the
area. The project would also promote the role of women in the development
process by assisting a large number of women to enter or expand productive
activities. It would assist in poverty alleviation by increasing income in one
of the poorest areas in China. The design of project enterprises wouli support
the new economic policy in China, whicn promotes the autonomy and profitability
of economic ertities at all levels. Bank involvement would help improve
microeconomic efficiency by developing guidelines for investment and enterprise
management and through overseas training and technical assistance. Bank Group
staff have catalyzed the development of pollution standards and monit Aing
systems, and these would be applied to the operation of agro-process g
facilities.



II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A.  Location of Pro:fct Areas
2.1       The proposed project areas with their separate project components are
located in three distinct regions of Shandong Province:
(a) Integrated agricultural developa*nt would take place in 12 of the 20
counties in the Tuhai River Basin, lying between the Yellow River and the
Majia River, in the north and north-west part of the province;
(b) Livestock development would take place in eight counties of the Yi
Meng Mountains area in the southern part of Shandong Province; and
(c) Mariculture development would take place in three counties and one
district in the Yellow River delta and in Penglai Bay along the Bo Sea.
The project locations are shown in Map IBRD No. 21104.
B. Climate. To0ograDhX. Soils and Water Resources
2.2       The three project areas generally share the same warm temperate
climate with moderate monsoon. Average daily temperatures range from a January
low of -40 to 280 C in July. Annual average rainfall ranges from 600 to 800 -
with about 55% occurring in July and August. Annual evaporation is about
1,900-2,100 mm and there are 210-220 frost-free days with adequate sunlight
conditions (2,700 sunshine hours annually) for most crops. Winter and spring
are generally dry, summer hot and wet, and fall moderate. Climatic data for
the three regions are summarized in Annex 1.
2.3       The project area in the Tuhai River Basin is part of the Yellow River
alluvial plain. The land is flat with slopes ranging from 1:8,000 to 1:10,000.
The main soil types are sandy-loam and loam (70%), clayey soil (18%) and sandy
soil (12%), interspersed with layers of sand, loam and clay of varying sequence
and thickness. The soils are deficient in nitrogen and phosphorus. Some
210,000 ha of existing c ltivated land (total 750,000 ha) are affected by
salinity of varying degrees including about 100,000 ha by poor drainage and
waterlogging. The eight project counties in the Yi Meng Mountains area are
between 300 and 750 m above sea level with hilly and rolling terrain of natural
grassland suitable for livestock development.
2.4       Total surface runoff in the province as a whole is estimated at 26
billion m3, of which 6.4 billion m3 can be used. The annual average discharge
of the Yellow River 1968-1986 was about 37 billion m3, with a high of 57
billion m3 and a low of 25 billion O3. Groundwater resources are about 16.3
billion m3, of which 13.5 billion m3 can be used.
2.5       The mariculture prsject sites along the coastline of the Bo Sea have
good soil (clay silt) and water resources to support the culture of shrimp and
shellfish. The land to be developed for shrimp farming, located inside the sea
dike, is for most part unused and currently unsuitable for crop cultivation.
As for shellfish and sea cucumber, these would be cultivated in the shallow



shoal waters off the Penglai coast. The Yellow River discharges ve t
quantities of sediment into the Bo Sea. With the Bo Sea sheltered by the
Shandong Peninsula and a northward littoral drift, the coastal water has a high
concentration of silt with rapid coastal accretion (some 12 km over the last
two decades). The sea water is rich in plankton and other micro-organisms
which are important food sources for mariculture.
C. Land Use. Farm Size and PoRulation
2.6       The total land area in the 12 project counties in the Tuhai River
Basin, which covers 60% of the basin (para. 2.7), is about 1.45 million ha (0.9
million ha arable), and 0.75 million ha is cultivated with annual crops (about
0.52 million ha irrigated). The agricultural population is about 5.5 million,
with cultivated land per capita (annual crops) of 0.14 ha (0.18 ha in the
project area). The total cropped area in the five irrigation schemes to be
Laproved under the project is estimated at 325,000 ha, of which 53,600 ha are
fully irrigated, 81,400 ha partially irrigated and 190,000 ha rainfed. The 8
counties in the Yi Meng Mountains area have a total land area of about 1.4
million ha, with 0.47 million ha under cultivation, and a population of about
6.3 million. The project area has about 0.45 million ha of natural grassland
suitable for animal husbandry but is undeveloped due to the lack of irrigation
and other support facilities. Three of the mariculture project sites are
located on presently unused large tracts of the Yellow River delta which are
about 5 - 10 km inland from the shore. In these tracts, the salinity ranges
from 18-28 parts per thousand (ppt), ideal for mariculture development. The
fourth project site is located in the shallow off-shore intertidal zone off
Penglai. The population of the four counties where the mariculture sites are
located is about 1.6 million.
D. Present DeveloRment
Tuhai River Basin
2.7       The Tuhai River Basin, including the delta areas of the Yellow and
Majia Rivers, is about 420 km long and 53 km wide with a total land area of
22,330 sq. km. It contains four prefectures/cities - Liaocheng, Dezhou, Huimin
and Dongying - 20 counties, 326 townships, 14,100 villages and 1.86 million
families. The total rural population is 7.9 million, with a labor force of 3.5
million. Cultivated land is about 1.25 million ha (56% of the total land
area), with less than 0.14 ha of cultivated land per capita. An agricultural
study was carried out from 1982-85 under the North China Plain Agriculture
Project (Cr.1261-CHA) to identify the main physical, agronomic and financial
constraints to higher crop production. An integrated agricultural development
plan was finalized in 1987, and feasibility studies were carried out for the 12
project counties, which were the priority areas selected by the Provincial
Government from those counties not presently covered by development programs.
2.8       Presently, about 776,000 ha (62% of the cultivated area) are
irrigated, with 65% irrigated wi-h water diverted from the Yellow River, 33%
from groundwater and the remaining 2% from storage ponds. The 33 diversion
points along the Yellow River are designed to irrigate 820,000 ha; however,
only about 12% or 97,000 ha can be fully irrigated up to on-farm level and 43%
or 350,000 ha can only be controlled at main and branch canal level. This low



- 10 -
irrigation efficiency is due to the incomplete and inadequate irrigation
systems, serious silting of canals by silt-laden Yellow River water, and
insufficient water in the Yellow River during the peak irrigation season.
Extraction of groundwater, currently totaling about 675 million m3 annually by
about 60,000 tubewells, is limited in quantity and quality due to hydro-
geological conditions and poor aquifer recharge. Drainage was upgraded with
the improvement of the main 430-km Tuhai River channel during 1965-70 and 216
major drains during 1970-75. However, serious silting of drainage channels and
incomplete drainage networks, especially at the farm level, are affecting
drainage of the basin. Some 365,000 ha of arable land are affected to varying
degrees by waterlogging and salinity.
2.9       The major crops grown in the Tuhai Basin are foodgrains (60%), cotton
(33%) and cash crops (7%)(mainly groundnuts, sesame and vegetables). The
overall cropping intensity is about 130%. Yields in the four prefectures vary
from 1.0 - 2.5 tons/ha for foodcrops and 0.4 - 0.8 ton/ha for cotton. Live-
stock was only developed recently to exploit the 224,000 ha of natural grass-
land in the basin. So far, only about 80,000 ha have been utilized. Land
designated for forest is about 233,000 ha or 10% of the basin area, however,
only about 29% of the designated area is actually covered by forest, 6% by
timber forest and nurseries, and the remaining 65% barren land. Areas suitable
for intercropping of economic trees and foodgrain are estimated at 600,000 ha
of which only about 12% have so far been cultivated. The area also has about
24,000 ha of fruit trees, producing 120,000 tons of fruits annually. Areas
developed for inland freshwater fisheries cover 3,600 ha out of a total poten-
tial area of 11,000 ha and coastal fisheries 150 ha out of a total 6,000 ha.
2.10        There are large areas of presently medium and low yield crop land
in the Tuhai Basin that can be made more productive through irrigation
improvement, fertilizer application, better seeds and technical services
support. There are also natural resources in the basin that can be used to
support increased output of forestry, livestock and aquatic products.
Yi Meng Mountains Area
2.11      The Yi Meng Mountains area, located in the central and southern part
of Shandong, contains about 30% of the province's unused hilly and sloping
land.  It is one of 18 poverty areas in China identifed by the Government.  The
five poorest counties have an average per-capita income of Y250, well below the
provincial average of Y450. Agricultural development in the past has been
constrained by the difficult terrain and the lack of infrastructure.  Under the
recent economic reforms, the Government has been concentrating on the
development of livestock in the area to take advantage of its large resources
of animal feed materials and farm labor. In the eight project counties, about
25% of the GVAO is derived from livestock, compared to the province's average
of 17%. Present production includes 185,000 tons of meat products (mainly
pigs, rabbits and poultry), 15,000 tons of dairy products, 80,000 tons of eggs
and 1,100 tons of wool. The existing livestock production base is widespread
throughout the area, where rearing of small livestock is mainly a female
occupation, but the level of technology and investment is low. Particularly
lacking are improved feeds, breeds, and animal health and agro-processing
facilities. Veterinary services for counties, townships and villages, are
provided by 400 professional staff and 8,500 technicians, who need more
training.



- 11 a
Bo Sea Coastal Areas
2.12      The project area has a coastline of about 380 km along the Bo Sea and
around Penglai Bay.1 The coastal area is sheltered, rich in natural resources
and suitable for mariculture development. The three counties proposed for
shrimp culture development, namely, Zhanhua, Wudi, and Hanting, have around
90,000 ha of mud flats suitable for shrimp culture. Of this, only about 3,400
ha have been developed, with an estimated production of 4,500 tons. Shandong's
shrimp production, mostly Penaeus orientalis from the Bo Sea coastal areas,
increased dramatically from about 5,300 tons in 1984 to 34,000 tons in 1987,
with 90% sold in the domestic market. Cultivation of specialty seafood
(abalone, scallop and sea cucumber) has been developed on about 2,000 ha.
Total fisheries GVAO in 1986 for the three counties and one district along the
Bo Sea and Penglai Bay was approximately YE3.7 million, of which 18% was from
mariculture. Some 16,000 workers (3% of the total farm population in the four
counties) are engaged in mariculture.
E. Infrastructure
TransDort
2.13      The project area ia well served by the province's rail and road
network. The Beijing/Shanghai main railway line passes through the Tuhai River
Basin. Yi Meng is served by the Jinan/Qingdao line on the north, the
Beijing/Shanghai line on the west and the Yanzhou/Shijiu line on the east
connecting to the Port of Shijiu. The Bo Sea coastal area is reached by the
Zhangdong and the Yiyang lines, with the Lancun/Yantai line less than 70 km
away.  A good road network links the counties, townships and villages in the
province.  A new east-west highway linking Jinan and Qingdao is scheduled for
Bank appraisal in FY 1989. Sea transportation to the project area benefits
from the existence of five coastal port cities (Qingdao, Yantai, Weihai, Shijiu
and Longkou).  About 72 km of rural roads would be constructed under the
project to serve the three proposed shrimp cultivation sites, which are not
easily accessible at present.
power
2.14      Shandong has an adequate supply of electric power with present
generating capacity of about 6,630 MW. Additional power plants are under
construction. The project is estimated to require an additional power supply
of about 60,000 kW annually which will be met from present capacity. The
Bureau of Electric Power has assured the Province that the additional power
will be provided to the project areas. Most of the power would be required for
processing of agricultural products and shrimp. Very little power would be
used to pump water for irrigation.
I Penglai Bay has a coastline of about 85 km, with a shallow water area (15 m
depth) of around 23,000 ha. Of the 23,000 ha, only 2,000 ha are identified as
suitable for shellfish culture, of which 800 ha have been developed.



- 12 -
F. Suport Services
Research and Extension
2. 15     Shandong has excellent research facilities through the various
agricultural research institutions established at the provincial and
city/municipality levels with support and guidance from national agricultural
research institutions. On crops, the Provincial Acadey of Agricultural
Sciences, in collaboration with the Bureaus of Agriculture and Water Resources,
has conducted many research projects in the Tuhai River Basin over an extended
period. Major research studies carried out by various institutions have
included the salinity-alkalinity study by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS)
at Dezhou; hydrogeological studies by the Yellow River Commission; the
experiment on fast-growing trees at Guan and Shen counties by World Food
Program (WFP), and the soil-water studies conducted under the Bank-financed
North China Plain Agriculture Project. The relevant research results have been
reflected in the design of the Tuhai River Basin agricultural development plan.
On livestock, the Shandong Veterinary Science Institute together with other
research units - CAAS, Ministry of Agriculture, Shandong Agriculture
University, Laiyang Academy of Agronomy - have been doing research in livestock
and poultry production, disease control, animal product processing and feed
formulation. Many of the results have been applied in the field, especially in
the Yi Meng Mountains area.
2.16        The Province haz several well established fishery research and
training institutions and over 1.000 senior fishery scientists and technicians.
Foremost among these institutes are Ocean University of Qingdao, Institute of
Marine Culture, Yellow Sea Fisheries Research Institute, Shandong Marine
Research Institute, and Shandong Provincial Aquaculture School, all of which
have national and some of which have international reputations.  Their work
broadly covers aquaculture development and training in marine, brackish and
freshwater environments, marine and freshwater resource assessment, physical
oceanography, marine and aquaculture engineering, food science and technology,
seaweed culture, and pollution control. The College of Fisheries of Ocean
University and Shandong Provincial Training School produce around 350 graduates
each year from 2-to 4-year comprehensive courses and also offa'r short-term
advanced training for professionals in the industry. The various research and
training institutions operate about 30 experimental stations within the
province and provide technical assistance to farmers and fishermen on a
contract basis. Under the project some of these institutions would be
contracted to develop feed formulations, manage brood stocks, review pond and
dike design, and provide technical guidance to project beneficiaries (para 3.29
and Annex 2, Tables 6.1-6.2).
2.17       Operations research would be carried out under the irrigation sub-
component covering topics, such as mathematical modelling for optimal use of
water resources, sedimient movements in the irrigation systems and their
treatment, crop water requirements and optimal uses of irrigation water, and
environmental impact of the area irrigated by diversion of the Yellow River. A
Soil and Water Study Center and two experimental sites would be established in
the project ar . Research and studies would be carried out in collaboration
with institutions of higher learning in the province and the Haihe University
in Nanjing (para 3.29 and Annex 2, Tables 6.1-6.2).



- 13 -
2.18       Extension services serving agriculture, fisheries and forestry are
generally well established in the project area, with agro-technical centers at
provincial, prefecture, municipal and county levels. There are agro-technical
stations at the township level and farmer-operated demonstration farms at the
village level. Centers and stations above the township level are generally
staffed by graduates from universities and colleges as well as from specialized
technical schools. Trained farmer-technicians are primarily responsible for
extension work at the village level and some are employed occasionally to
assist in the township stations. The extension network, especially at the
county, township and village levels, needs additional staff and lacks
facilities, extension training equipment and materials, which would be provided
under the project.
2.19        A major inadequacy in extension is the lack of adequate extension
services for producers of small ruminants, rauoits and poultry in both the Yi
Meng and Tuhai Basin components. Firstly, few extension workers or village
technicians are effectively trained in the simple animal husbandry and animal
health techniques applicable to small livestock. Seconoly, since the extension
workers and technicians who now service the villages are almost all men, there
is often a social barrier impeding their ability to effectively reach
producers, who are primarily women. There is a need for significant numbers of
female extension workers and village technicians, whu would be socially more
able to communicate with and gain the confidence of female livestock workers.
Female extension workars and village technicians would be recruited under the
project (para. 3.8 (c)).
Seed Production and SuDPlY
2.20        Although improved seeds are partly responsible for the recent
increase in agricultural productivity, formal mechanisms of seed development,
production and distribution are inadequate. The provincial seed company, which
has branches at the prefectural and county levels, has been unable to provide
farmers with adequate amounts of certified seed, because of inadequate
processing capability, insufficient storage, poor quality control, shortage of
transport, shortage of working capital, lack of staff training, and problems in
management. The certified seeds themselves are produced by state farms and
specialized households under contract to the provincial seed company or its
county branches. Lack of seeds has had its biggest impact on corn production.
There has been slow replacement of older varieties, farmers have often had to
provide for their own seeds out of production, and many farmers have had to
forego the superior yields of Fl hybrid seeds.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives and Relation to the Sector
3.1       The main objective of the project would be to assist the Shandong
Provincial Government (a) to accelerate the development of the coastal lowlands
for culture fisheries in line with the objective of establishing culture
fisheries on agriculturally unproductive land, (b) to intensify crop production
in existing low yielding areas and increase the value of livestock production
and processing in the Tuhai River Basin, (c) to upgrade the production and
processing of small livestock in the Yi Meng poverty area so as to provide
productive employment (primarily for women), alleviate poverty and reduce
income disparities, and (d) to strengthen overall project management.
B. Proiect DescriRtion
3.2       The proposed project consists of three main components:
(a)       Tuhai River Basin Component - integrated agricultural development
including improvement and expansion of irrigation facilities in five irrigation
areas; provision of fertilizer, quality seeds and support services to increase
productivity; development of Chinese date trees intercropped with foodgrains
and fast-growing forest trees; establishment of date processing; improvement of
natural grassland; rearing of draft/beef cattle, sheep and broilers; livestock
breeding and veterinary support services; and feed and meat processing and
storage.
(b)        Yi Menu Livestock Component - livestock development, covering
breeding and rearing of rabbits, pigs, chickens and geese; processing of
livestock feed, meat, goose down, rabbit wool; and provision of veterinary
support services.
(c)       Coastal Development Component - mariculture development, including
cultivation of shrimp and specialty seafood in four counties; establishment of
5,350 ha of Ehrimp and 800 ha of abalone, scallops and sea cucumbers; provision
of hatcheries, feed mills, cold storage and processing facilities and technical
service centers; and strenghthening of research and development.
3.3       The proposed project would also strengthen overall project management
by providing technical assistance, training and supporting applied research.
Agricultural Develooment in Tuhai River Basin
3.4       Irrigation Sub-component:  Irrigation facilities would be improved
(81,400 ha) and expanded (190,200 ha) in five irrigation ar as (Taochengpu,
Guokou, Xingjiadu, Boqili, and Handun) covering parts of 10 project counties.
The project would:
(a)   excavate 7 silt retention basins (5 new and 2 expansion) with a
total surface area of about 1,100 ha; build an inverted siphon under the
Tuhai River to extend irrigation supply in the Handun area; and improve
river and main drainage channels totaling 15 million m3 of earthwork;
(b)   construct and improve 36 main canals totaling 500 km and 250 branch
canals totaling about 700 km together with canal structures; three booster
pumping stations with total capacity of 43 m3/sec; 8 low-level storage



- 15 -
reservoirs of about 70.0 million m3 in total of water to be diverted from
the Yellow River during the pre-irrigation and off-peak periodF; and
lateral and sub-lateral ca-nals and drains and structures for about 220,000
ha; and
(c)    Provide equipment and instruments for water management studies.
3.5       Agricultural Sub-component:  This sub-component is primarily to
support increased production projected for the medium and low yield cropland in
the project counties.  The project would include:
(a) provision of 45,000 tons of imported diammonium phosphate (DAP)
fertilizer to be applied to an area of about 135,000 ha where irrigation
and drainage would be improved under the project; and
(b) expansion of seed production (by 3,200 tons of corn, 9,000 tons of
wheat, and 6,500 tons of cotton) bv improving the physical facilities,
technical capability and performance of the 12 county seed companies,
through provisior of 2,510 sq m of processing rooms, 8,000 sq m of
storage, 8,800 sq m of drying floors, 3,120 sq m of offices, laboratories
and inspection areas, 14 processsing/cleaning machines, 9 threshers, 11
instrument sets, 9 trucks, staff training, and working capital.
3.6       Forestry Sub-comRonent:  To increase vegetative cover and control
shifting sand as well s to provide additional income for farmers in the
project area, the project would:
(a) develop 12,500 ha of Chinese dates intercropped with 37,500 ha of
existing field crops in 10 project counties;
(b) develop 3,000 ha of forest planted with fast-growing trees (poplar,
paulownia and locust) along the old Yellow River course, based on results
of World Food Program (WFP) pilot ptojects carried out in Shen and Guan
Counties; and
(c) construct 5 date-fruit processing plants with a total capacity of
6,800 tons of dates and 4 cold stores each with 500 tons capacity.
3.7       Animal Husbandry Sub-comvonent : The project would develop animal
husbandry bases (mainly sheep and cattle) in eao.h of five counties - Wudi,
Zhanhua, Shanghe, Chiping, Shenxian - through a livestock company to coordinate
production, processing and marketing. The project would include:
(a) Production: Establish 3 breeding farms (one parent chicken, one
cattle and one sheep), improvement and development of 5,333 ha of
grassland for raising 25,000 head of draft/beef cattle and 300,000 head of
sheep and raising of one million broilers by specialized households;
(b) Processing: Construct 3 feed mills (2 new and 1 expansion) with
total annual capacity of 19,000 tons; 4 abattoirs to proc .s annually
21,000 cattle, 240,000 sheep, and 1 processing plant witlh 2 slaughter
lines to process 1.5 million chickens; 5 cold stores with total capacity
of 3,800 tons, and a beef fattening feedlot.



- 16 -
(c)  Sejaicgs:  Construct four technical service centers to provide
support services for production, processing and marketing.
Yi Meng Mountains Area Livestock Develogment
3.8       The project would increase the production and processing of
livestock, as follows:
(a) Production: Establish 6 county meat-rabbit breeding farms, producing
130,600 breeding rabbits and 56 township meat-rabbit multiplication farms
producing 216,000 breeding rabbits for 25,120 rabbit specialized
households (SHs) and 58,500 other farm families; establish two county
hair-rabbit breeding stations producing 8,000 breeding animals for 1,000
SHs and 8,000 households; establish one county hybrid broiler-chicken farm
producing 2.8 million broilers for 1,400 SHs and one demonstration farm,
which would also be set up; establish one county pig-breeding farm
producing 800 pure-breed Laiwu black pigs for 100 specialized pig-breeding
farmers producing hybrid pigs for 6,400 specialized pig-fattening
households; and establish one county goose-breeding farm producing 25,000
goslings to increase the number of available goslings for 3,000
specialized geese fattening households and 19,000 ordinary farmers.
(b) 2rocgssing: Construct 8 feed mills (2 new and 6 expansions) with
total capacity of 69,000 tons; 9 meat processing plants (2 new and 7
expansions) to annually process 17 million rabbits, 2.4 million broilers,
100,000 pigs, and 1.8 million geese; 3 tanneries to process 11.3 million
rabbit skins, 3 rabbit wool/textile processing mills (one new and two
expansion) capable of processing 200 tons of rabbit hair, 550 tons of
rabbit wool yarn and 200,000 pieces of rabbit hair garments; and 1 goose
down (expansion) factory to process an additional 200 tons of raw goose
feathers; and
(c) Services: Strengthen 7 existing agro-technical extension centers
with additional staff, facilities and equipment to serve about 81,000
households engaged in livestock production, recruit and train 245 women
extension workors and 20,000 women village technicians to service the
special needs of women livestock farmers.
Mariculture DeveloDment Along Bo Sea Coast
3.9       The proposal involves shrimp production in three counties - Wudi,
Zhanhua and Hanting - and shellfish and sea cucumber production in Penglai
County. The project would include:
(a) production: Construct 5,350 ha of ponds for shrimp sulture, including
33 km of sea dike, 3 oumping stations, 170 km of canals and drains, and 78
sluice gates, culverts and bridges; construct 3 shrimp hatcheries with
12,000 m3 tank capacity to breed about 1.6 billion postlarvae for stocking
ponds at the rate of 300,000/ha; and develop 800 ha of shallow water off
Penglai for cultivation of scallops (533 ha), abalone (66 ha) and sea
cucumbers (200 ha) in cages and on artificial reefs;



- 17 -
(b) Proceasing: Construct 3 shrimp feed mills (total capacity 24,000
tons/year) and 4 cold storage plants (capacity 2,500 tons/batch);
(c)  Services:  construct 33 km of high tension power lines and 3
substations, 72 km rural roads, 10 tubewells and 60 km of pipelines for
water supply; construct technical extension service and training centers;
provide vehicles, laboratory equipment, boats and production materials;
and technical assistance for research and development.
C. Project Features
Irrigation
3.10      The main project would improve 81,400 ha and expand 190,200 ha in
the five irrigation areas that have been identified as being in need of
improvement and development (Table 3.3). Due to funding constraints, the
original irrigation systems were under-designed and limited to primary canal
networks with a minimum number of control structures. Secondary and tertiary
canal networks are few and incomplete in most cases. Without silt-retention
basins, many canals are rapidly silting up by water diverted from the Yellow
River, leading to inefficient water distribution. Water diversion from the
Yellow River is carried out by means of sluice gates built under tne massive
Yellow River flood-protection dikes. A four-tier canal system (main, branch,
lateral and sub-lateral) distributes water into river and drainage channels
where farmers access it with small pumps (with only about 10-15% of the area
supplied by gravity). Pumping has the advantage of maintaining a low
watertable level, which minimizes waterlogging and salinity.
Table 3.1 Project Irrization Areas 'ha)
Irrigation                  Project Areas          Existing   Total After
Area                  Expansion   Improvement        Area         Project
Taochengpu             76,200               0            0         76,200
Guokou                  8,100          12,700       16,700         24,800
Xingjiadu              35,900          18,700       38,600         74,500
Boqili                 39,000          30,000       60,000         99,000
Handun                 31,000          20,000       33,000         64,000
Total                 190,200          81,400      148,300        338,500
3.11      The project would construct 7 silt-retention basins covering an area
of about 1,100 ha. These basins, to be located at the heads of canals and
over low-lying marginal land, would consist of a number of parallel excavated
or built-up channels about 100 to 200 m wide with lengths varying from 2 to 3
km. Each channel is designed (at average silt load of 11 kg/m3) to last for
3-5 years and each basin 20-25 years. Farmers, whose land is taken for use as
silt-retention basins, would be compensated with land of equal quality. When
each channel is silted up it will be leveled and dressed with top soil and
returned to farmers for crop cultivation or developed into forest areas before
a new channel is constructed. When a basin is filled up, a suitable new site
would be selected.



- 18 -
3.12      Except in Taochengpu, the project would focus mainly on improving
the efficiency of conveyance and distribution systems so as to be compatible
with the installed capacity of diversion structures. In Taochengpu, the
project would construct a new network of canals to link with 'xisting unused
canals. In all, 36 main canals totaling about 500 km and 250 u:anch canals
totaling 700 km would be constructed or improved, involving a total of about
22 million m3 of earthworks. Sub-lateral canals/drains involving about 21
million m3 of earthworks would be constructed by farmers with contributed
labor. Drainage improvements would involve about 10 million m3 of earthworks.
New structures to be constructed would include about 3,650 canal control
structures and bridges, 3 pumping stations with total capacity of 43 m3/sec
and a major inverted siphon under the Tuhai River to extend irrigation to
about 20,000 ha in Handun.  The project would also construct eight low-level
storage reservoirs by enlarging some of the drainage channels. These
reservoirs would have total capacity of 70 million m3, and would be filled
with water diverted from the main canal during the high stage of the Yellow
River or during the July-to-February uncontrolled period and then released in
the spring for early irrigation. The project would construct 3,400 tube wells
(yield of 30-50 m3/hour) in Taochengpu and Guokou to extract about 100 million
m of groundwater to be used in conjunction with surface irrigation water.
Agricultural Inputs
3.13      The major constraints to increasing crop yields and production in
the 12 project counties of the Tuhai River Basin are the lack of fertilizer,
certified seeds, and irrigation, and the existence of waterlogging, excess
salinity, and drought. The majority of farmers use recommended seeds for
wheat, corn and cotton, but 40% use local varieties of F2/F4 corn seed.
Current shortages of certified seeds are estimated at 16,000 tons for wheat,
3,700 tons for corn and 4,000 tons for cotton. Existing seed processing
centers lack drying floors and storage and processing facilities are
rudimentary. Technical supervision of seid farms is inadequate due to lack of
trained staff. Soils are generally deficient in nitrogen and phosphate, and
current fertilizer application for wheat, corn and cotton (50 kg/ha N, 25-30
kg/ha P205) is below recomended rates, partly because domestic production of
fertilizer does not meet current demand, with the fertilizer shortage in the
12 project counties estimated at about 150,000 tons. Seed and fertilizer
shortages would be exacerbated w4'th the completion of the Tuhai irrigation
component. The project would address the shortages as follows:
3.14      Seeds:  The project would strengthen the existing seed processing
centers in the 12 project counties and increase their capacity to produce qual-
ity seeds. It would provide for the construction of offices and sales rooms
(1,870 sq m). seed inspection and testing rooms (1,250 sq m), processing rooms
(2,510 sq m), drying floors (8,800 sq m), and seed stores (8,000 sq m).  The
project would also provide machinery and equipment, mainly for seed grading and
cleaning, and seed testing laboratory equipment.  Tractors and irrigation equip-
ment would be provided for seed multiplication farms in three counties,
including vehicles to transport crops from seed farms to processing plants and
sales outlets. There would also be provision for staff training and working
capital. Seed production would be expanded for wheat, corn and cotton by
9,000, 3,200 and 6,500 tons, respectively.  Production as a percentage of



- 19-
total requirements would be 56% for wheat, 86% for corn and 162% for cotton.
The wheat and corn seed deficits would be covered by seed from other local
sources, and the cotton seed surplus would be marketed in other counties.
Processed seeds would be sold to farmers by county seed company outlets.
3.15      Fertilizer:  About 45,000 tons of DAP would be imported during the
second and third years of project implementation. The county Agriculture
Industry and Trade Corporations (AITC) would supply the fe;:ilizer to the 12
project counties. Project-financed fertilizer would be applied to previously
saline wasteland and newly irrigated areas. Each project county would be
required to submit an annual fertilizer plan to the P10 showing cropping
pattern, cropping area, fertilizer application rates and quantities required.
Each county would also carry out fertilizer demonstration trials on about
10,000 ha to determine optimal fertilizer application rates. An assur&nce was
obtained at negotiations that the Province would procure the required
quantities of chemical fertilizer (local and imported) for farmers and an
annual plan for such provision would be submitted to IDA for review prior to
November 1 of each year (para 7.1(a)). Fertilizer would be procured by the
Provincial Rural Economic Development and Investment Corporation (PREDIC) and
sold to farmers in the project area by the county AITC sales outlets. A
revolving fund, managed by PREDIC, would be established with proceeds from
fertilizer sales and used to procure future supplies. It is estimated that
about 126,000 ha of wheat, 30,000 ha of corn, 92,600 ha of cotton and 2,300 ha
of cash crops would bR fertilized at an average application rate of 177 kg/ha
(nutrient).
Forestry
3.16      Trees:  The project would develop about 3,000 ha of forest trees
such as poplar, paulownia (Pt imDerialis) and locust (Robinia pseudacacia) in
blocks on the sandy wasteland in Gaotang and Chiping Counties that was
formerly the old course of the Yellow River. Design of the project is based
on the results of a successful pilot project of the World Food Program in Shen
and Guan Counties. Each participating household would be given 2 ha of land
(and would have thA right to use the land for at least 30 years) 1 ha of which
would be planted to trees along the boundaries in a band of 4-5 rows at a
planting distance of 3 x 4 m, giving a density of 500 trees/ha. Each planting
hol., 1 m x 1 m x 1 m, would be filled -ith a mixture of topsoil, organic
manure and chemical fertilizer. The newly planted saplings would be sheltered
and watered regularly to prevent wilting. The family would plant crops of its
own choice on the remaining ha inside the tree border which could be a
combination of fruit trees, cash crops and annual foodcrops.
3.17      The project would finance land leveling and preparation,
construction of shallow wells, simple irrigation works, pumping and spraying
equipment, planting materials, fertilizers, agro-chemicals and family housing.
County Forestry Industry and Trade Corporations (FITC) would be responsible
for planning and implementing the project. Materials, such as saplings and
fertilizer, would be prepared by the township Forest Centers and distributed
to farmers. Production of timber is expected to commence from the tenth year
of planting of poplar and locust. Rotation cycles for poplar, paulownia and
locust are about 10, 20, and 30 years, respectively, and at the end of the
rotation, total timber production would be about 470,030, 66,000 and 33,000



- 20 -
m3, respectively, for poplar, paulownia, and locust. Farmers would be
expected to sell about 67% of their production to the FITCs or on the free
market.
3.18      Dates/Foodfrain IntercroRRing:  Chinese dates (ZizyDhus jujuba) have
been a traditional crop in the project area as border strips or intercropped
with corn, wheat and cotton. Currently, about 59,000 ha (gross area) of dates
are planted in the project counties, about 23% of the total planting in China.
Chiping County (20,000 ha of large dates) and Wudi County (26,000 ha of smell
dates) have the largest concentrations of dates. Total annual production in
the ten project counties is estimated at about 35,000 tons with about 18%
processed into a range of products including jam, puree and juice. Aside from
the local fresh market, dates are also dried to meet increasing export markets
among overseas Chinese communities. The project would support the
establishment of 12,500 ha of Chinese dates intercropped with 37,500 ha of
foodgrains and would provide planting materials, fertilizer, agrochemicals and
spraying equipment. Some 125,000 households would participate in the program
with an average area ;f 0.4 ha per household. Planting would be carried out
by participating farmers during April/May and October/November in planting
holes 1 m x 1 m x 1 m previously prepared and enriched with organic manure and
chemical fertilizer.  Post-planting maintenance would include replacing dead
seedlings, top-dressing with fertilizer, controlling pests and disease, and
pruning, weeding and spraying. The county and township Forestry Bureaus would
plan and implement the project and the county FITCs would process and market
the produce. Production would begin in year 6 after planting and reach full
production in year 10 with a production cycle of 30 or more years.
Livestock
3.19      Livestock development in the Tuhai River Basin (Chiping, Shanghe,
Shen, Zhanhua and .,di Counties) would involve production from natural and
developed pastures in sandy and saline wastelands along old river courses and
in coasta'. and delta areas. In the Yi Meng Mountains region (Teng, Laiwu,
Yishui, Yiyuan, Yinan, Mengyin, Fei and Pingyi Counties) livestock development
would be mainly based on feedgrain and crop by-products (mainly corn stalks,
wheat straw, peanut hay, sweet pctatoes and oil cakes) with some grass from
roads and hillsides in the summer a.:d autumn. Total feed resources in Shandong
have been estimated at about 1.3 milllon tons, which is more than three times
provincial feed requirements (Annex 2). Subproject categories are as follows:
3.20      Breeding Stations:  Breed improvement is fundamental to the project's
objective to increase production efficiency. In the Tuhai River Basin, the
project would construct a sheep breeding station to increase the supply of fine-
wool breeding sheer, a cattle breeding station for Bo Hai black cattle and a
county broiler chicken farm to produce hybrid broiler chicks from three fully
imported breed lines for specialized broiler production farms. In the Yi Meng
Mountains area, the project would construct county rabbit-breeding farms (both
meat and hair) to introduce first-quality imported and local rabbits to the area
and also township multiplication farms (to ensure that improved rabbit breeds
would be supplied in sufficient numbers to rabbit farmers). Also provided would
be a county chicken-breeding farm si.milar to the one in the Tuhai area, a county
pig-breeding farm, and a county goose-breeding farm. The project would
construct the stations, buy and install the equipment and supply the breeding



- 21 -
stock.
3.21      Livestock Husbandry and Beef Feedlot:  The project would provide
improved breeds, animal housing, equipment and training to improve technical
advisory services in animal health. The support services would be funded from
:he sale of processed products. In the Tuhai River Basin area, nutrition
available for ruminants (cattle and sheep) would be increased through
approximately 2,600 ha of pasture development, seeded mostly by plane.
Additional feed for sheep would also come from leaves of fast growing trees
established under the forestry component (para 3.16). No particular investments
in producing more feed are proposed for the Yi Meng Mountains area oitng to
adequate existing supplies and crop developments outside the project; investment
is however planned in feed processing, particularly pelletizing, to enhance the
palatability and digestibility of existing feeds. In Wudi County converting the
existing mule/horse breeding farm to a 4,000-head-capacity feedlot would enable
cattle to be marketed one season ear.ier, allow an increase in cattle production
from existing grassland and improve beef quality and yield from the Wudi
abattoir. rhe feedlot and the abattoir would be financed under the project.
3.22      Processing:  The project would finance the construction, expansion or
modernization of 36 small and medium-sized processing plants, expand livestock
slaughter and by-product-processing capacity (2 cattle, 2 cattle/sheep, 2
chicken, one geese and 6 rabbit), and establish . rabbit wool/lair spinning and
weaving units.
Mariculture
3.23      ShrimR.  The project would develop a total of about 5,350 ha of new
ponds in Hanting (2,000 ha), Zhanhua (2,000 ha) and Wudi (1,350 ha) counties,
including provision for water supply and drainage systems, electricity, access
roads, production buildings and offices, hatcheries, feed mills, freezing and
cold storage, technical support services, equipment and vehicles.
3.24      Ponds and Related Works:  The project would manually and mechanically
excavate about 1,600 ponds of standard size (50 mu or 3.35 ha each), with
dimensions of 450 m length x 75 m width x 3 m depth (water depth 2 m with 1 m of
freeboard). Each pond would be provided with separate supply and drainage
sluice gates linked to main supply and drainage networks. Earth excavated would
be placed around the perimeter of each pond and formed into embankments with
side slopes of 1:2.5 and a top width of 4-5m. Some ponds would have side walls
constructed of masonry and concrete to minimize maintenance. A total of 33 km
of protective sea dikes would be constructed at two sites in Hanting and Wudi.
The dikes, design-d to withstand the historical highest tide recorded in 1938
(equivalent to 1 in 100 years return period), would typically be around 4.2 m
above ground level or 6 m above mean sea level and would be constructed during
year 1 by construction teams and the local labor force. Side slopes would vary
from 1:4 to 1:8 and at Hanting the seaward slope would be protected against wave
action by a masonry seawall. It was agreed that the final dike design would be
reviewed and accepted by the engineering division of Ocean University, Qingdao
prior to commencement of construction. Sea water for the growout ponds (and
hatcheries) would be pumped from the Bo Sea by pumping stations erected on the
tidal rivers adjoining the sites and fed into a canal network. Pumping capacity
at each site is designed for 60 to 90 m3/sec in order to maintain an average



- 22 -
daily 10% change of water body in ponds. Three sub-stations and 53 km of high
tension transmission lines would be constructed to extend power supply to the
pumping stations and other installations. Fresh water for domestic use and for
processing shrimp would be obtained from existing canals and 10 new tubewells
and delivered through 60 km of pipe lines. About 72 km of rural roads would be
constructed to link the three project sites to existing cour.ty roads.
Workshops, offices and dormitories would be provided it, each county.
3.25      Hatcheries:  The project would construct shrimp hatcheries at each
site with capacities of 3,000-4,000 m3. They would consist of a series of
indoor concrete tanks (approximately 50 m3 each) with a water depth of 1.5-2 m
and would be equipped with aeration and water heating pipes, water heaters,
ventilation blower, pumps, motors and water filtration plants. Water tempera-
ture would be maintained at about 180 C for spawning and gradually raised to 270
C at the end of larval culture. Each hatchery would produce about 600 to 900
million postlarvae. Hatcheries would operate for about 3 months from April to
June. During the winter months they would be used to raise immature shrimp,
collected from the ponds, into brood stock, rather than depending fully on the
dwindling number of wild spawners caught in the Bo Sea.
3.26      Feed Fills, Cold Storage and Freezing Facilities:  Three 6-9,000-ton
shrimp feed mills would be built that would have separate units for grinding,
mixing, pelleting, conveying steam, conditioning and packing and adequate
stoLage.  Concrete drying floors of 1,000-1,500 sq m would be constructed at
each site drying pellets. They would also be used to produce fishmeal from
trash fish outside the four-month shrimp-feed production period. With fishmeal
an important ingredient in shrimp feed, current high international prices
warrant local production. Four cold stores would also be constructed with
capacities of 500 tons each at Wudi and Hanting and 500 and 1,000 tons at
Zhanhua. These plants would be equipped with block ice plants and modern 60-90
ton/day blast freezers. For export sales, provision would be made for the
installation of plate freezers for freezing shrimp in export cartons.
3.27      SRecialty Seafood.  In shallow waters off Penglai County, the project
would establish 533, 66 and 200 ha, respectively, of production facilities for
scallops, abalon: and sea cucumber.  Scallops would be raised in cages (purse
and lantern types) suspended in the sea by polythene ropes attached to floating
buoys and wood stakes. Abalone would be raised in net covered breeding barrels
suspended by polythene ropes. Sea cucumber would be cultivated on artificial
reefs constructed of rock and concrete. The project would provide the necessary
production equipment and materials, which would include about 108,000 wooden
stakes, 1,740 tons of polythene rope, 3.2 million plastic buoys, 3.5 million
breeding cages, 400,000 breeding barrels, 130 tons of nylon netting, 300,000 m3
of stone/cement blocks, 1,012 worK boats of 5 m length, six motorized tug boats,
one fork lift, eight sets of diving equipment and 3,800 sq m of storage
buildings.
3.28      Vehicles. Eguipment and Support Services.  The project would provide
30 trucks above 8 .ons, nine refrigerated trucks, six chilled trucks and two
forklifts for the mariculture component. A total of 2,000 five-meter wooden
boats would be provided on the basis of one per shrimp pond. At each of the
four shrimp sites and the shellfish site at Penglai the project would construct
a Technical Service Center equipped with offices, classrooms, laboratories,



- 23 -
stores, and training and testing equipmenr to provide training and technical
support services. Training would also be provided to technicians, farmers and
workers at various institutes. About 4,000 people would be trained in
production technology, farm maniagement, processing, disease prevention and
control. The Bureau of Fisheries in consultation with the Aquatic Products
Industry and Trade Corporation would design a comprehensive training program
(para. 2.16).
Institutional SuoDort
3.29     In addition to the funds for county training programs already included
in the above components, the project would support overall project management by
providing training and local and foreign technical assistance to the PMO, the
POs and PREDIC to establish and support standardized project management, cost
accounting and monitoring, reporting and evaluation systems, and detailed
feasibility studies for agro-processing facilities. In addition, it is proposed
that annual seminars be held on mariculture, livestock and irrigated
agriculture, to discuss M&E findings and technical problems. Funds have been
provided to allow the PMO to invite experts from appropriate technical and
research institutes within China to such seminars. Funds have also been
provided for short-term training, which would include training in local
management institutes and visits by project staff and managers of agro-
processing units to other parts of China and/or abroad. The training programs
would be carried out in accordance with the agreed schedules shown in Annex 2
(para 7.1(b)). Finally, funds have beeni provided for mariculture research on
feed formulation and brood-stock management and for technical guidance in
mariculture production and processing. The Provincial Bureau of Aquatic
Products would assist in drawing up contracts with various research institutes
to carry out the work. Irrigation research topics on water management and
soil/water studies were finalized by the Haihe Engineering Command Headquarters
and agreed to at appraisal (para. 2.17).
D. Water SuRplv. Demand and Ouality
3.30      Total annual water requirements for agriculture, domestic and
industrial use along both banks of the Yellow River in Shandong are estimated
at 8.4 billion m3 - 7.0 bIllion m3 for agriculture and 1.4 billion m3 for
domestic and industrial use. Water diverted from the Yellow River is of good
quality for agricultural and donestic use except for high silt content during
the flood season. Mineralization, hardness, pH and normal silt content
average 400 mg/l, 3.4 mg/l, 7.9 and 10-15 kg/m3, respectively.
3.31      The main source of water is the Yellow River from which Shandong is
allocated about 7.0 billion m3 annually: 4.6 and 2.4 billion m3 for March-June
and Septembe-r-November irrigation seasons, respectively. The actual diversion
quantities vary from year to year, depending on upstream regulation and silt
loads of the water. Water diversion is controlled by the Yellow River
Commission (YRC) during March to June when spring irrigation demands coincide
with low river stage, but no control is exercised for the remaining period of
the year.  Over the July to October period, the YRC maintains a downstream
minimum flow of the 20-24 billion m3 necessary to flush out the silt at the
lower reaches. Shandong takes advantage of the abundant flow in the river
during this period to divert about 1.0 billion m3 annually into storage



- 24 -
reservoirs. Thus, over the past 10 years, Shandong has been able to divert 7-
8 billion m3 of water annually from the Yellow River. The monthly average
river flow and 1988 planned diversion volumes are given in Annex 1 Tables 3.1
and 3.2.
3.32      The five project irrigation areas are among 26 irrigation areas in
the Tuhai River Basin on the northern bank of the Yellow River. Present water
divercion for the five areas is about 1.2 billion .3 p.a., 17% of the
province's annual water allocation. Additional water required to meet
projected demand in the five areas with the project is estimated at 0.5
billion m3 and is within their annual water allocations. The existing
diversion intakes have the rated capacity to divert the required amount of
water during normal conditions. However, seasonal water shortages, especially
during the critical period of May and early June, may occur either when the
silt content of the river water exceeds 30 kg/m3 (design average 11 kg/m3) and
requires intakes to be closed to prevent rapid silting of canal systems or
when flow rationing and excessive extraction upstream of Shandong reduces the
flow during the low-river stages during dry years. Water balance studies
carried out for each of the five areas, which take account of their inability
to access their allocations during heavy-silt and low-river conditions (see
summary in Table 3.2), show that the supplemental demand can be supplied from
water stored during the pre-irrigation season and from groundwater (see
Working Paper C.2 for details).
TABLE 3.2  Summarv of Water Balance (Million m3)
Irrigation Area
Taocheng   Guokou    Xing    Boqili   Handun    Total
pu               jiadu
Demand:
Agriculture            411      149       223      389       267     1439
Industry/Domestic       22       14        85       92        73      286
Total                  433      163       308      481       340     1725
Supply:
Yellow River           260       78       266      481       340     1425
Local controlled
run-off               53        0         8        0         0       61
Groundwater            120       85        34        0 a/      0 a/   239
Total                  433      163       308      481       340     1725
a/ High mineralization, not suitable for agriculture.
3.33    Two of the five project areas (Handun and Boqili) would be provided
with additional reservoirs to increase water storage to about 0.28 billion m3
diverted during the off-peak and pre-irrigati-n periods. In Taochengpu and
Guokou, some 3,400 tubewells would be constructed to extract an additional 100
million m3 of groundwater (para 3.12). Irrigation system efficiency would also
be upgraded from 50% to 55-60% to save water. This would be achieved through



- 25 -
concrete lining of the remaining stretches of unlined main canals and
construction of control structures and water measuring devices. To maximize
the area to be provided with irrigation within the allocated Yellow River
water, the irrigation area in each of the five schemes would be divided into
full and partial irrigation areas. During dry years when water resources are
constrained, the latter would receive one or two irrigation applications fewer
than the former (depending on the crop). During normal years, the irrigation
norm for both areas would be the same. The project would also include
provision for the training of irrigation staff in water management and consul-
tancy services to review and upgrade the present system of water distribution,
control and monitoring for the irrigation areas along the Yellow River.
3.34      Water for shrimp cultivation in the coastal areas of Bo Sea has been
tested and found to be excellent for shrimp and shellfish cultivation in terms
of biochemical content. The small amount of freshwater required for domestic
use and shrimp processing is available in sufficient quantity and quality.
E. Status of Design
3.35      The project is in an advanced stage of preparation.  The basic data
have been collected, and preliminary designs for the five irrigation areas
have been completed by the prefecture design institutes of the water
conservancy bureaus and approved by the Provincial Bureau of Water
Conservancy. Preliminary designs were reviewed by IDA and found to be
satisfactory. Detailed construction drawings are being prepared and will be
completed by June 1989. Designs of civil works and buildings for processing
plants under the coastal development and the Yi Meng livestock components are
being carried out by the county bureaus of water conservancy and urban
planning, respectively. Detailed construction drawings for civil works and
buildings and engineering drawings for agro-processing and production
facilities would be completed in time for project implementation in 1989.
Sites for the mariculture component have been approved by the Provincial
Bureau of Aquatic Products on the basis of surveys carried out by the county
and prefecture engineers. Site surveys and soil and water-quality tests
(including laboratory tests) have been carried out at all sites. Preliminary
designs have been completed and final design and construction drawing are
being undertaken, with assistance from water conservancy engineers. A survey
of construction materials available within the province has been completed.
F. Implementatior Schedule
3.36       The project would be carried out over a period of five years, from
early 1989 to December 1993. Due to the number of sub-components, the
implementation period for each component would vary: Tuhai River Basin
agricultural development, five years; Yi Meng Mountains area livestock
development and the Bo Sea coastal area development, each three years. A
larger volume of works has been scheduled in the first two years due to
necessity to complete initially large quantities of earthworks and the related
structures for the irrigation areas and the shrimp ponds as well as the
numerous seed farms, feed mills and agro-processing plants in order to start
project production as early as possible. The proposed schedule is feasible in
the Chinese context because of existing capability, human resources and
experience. The provincial and county line agencies and specialized



- 26 -
corporations charged with the larger works are already in existence and have
the experience and human resources necessary to carry out their tasks. The
corporation borrowers charged with constructing seed farms and processing
capacity are also mostly in existence and have experience in their particular
fields, and once financed can be expected to move ahead rapidly. Experience
in previous Bank agricultural projects in China is that physical works are
almost always on time and are often completed ahead of schedule. A detailed
implementation schedule is given in Figure 1.
G. Cost Estimates
3.37      The total project cost is estimated at US$272 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$109 million or 40% of total. Costs for che
three components are: Tuhai River Basin agricultural development US$113
million (42% of total); Yi Meng Mountains area livestock development US$39
million (14 % of total); and Bo Sea coastal mariculture development US$119
million (44% of total). The cost estimate also provides US$1 million for
institutional support. Taxes and duties are not included in the estimated
costs. Cost estimates are based on quantities derived from completed
preliminary designs described in para. 3.35 and from unit prices currently
prevailing for similar construction works and materials in the province and
price lists of local and overseas manufacturers for plants, machinery and
equipment. Engineering and management costs have been calculated at 2% of the
total costs for work items. Physical contingencies are 5% for civil works and
other components except for labor and land acquisition for which they are
zero. Price contingencies for both foreign and local costs, when expressed in
US dollars, are based on annual international price excalation rates for all
goods and services of 3% for 1989-90 and 4% for 1991-93; and when expressed in
yuan, are based on price escalation rates of 7% for 1989 and 6.5% for 1990-93.
Estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.3 and details given in Annex 2
Tables 1-4.
H. Financing
3.38      Bank Group financing would be an IDA Credit of SDR 82.5 million
(US$109 million equivalent) and would cover 40% of total projcct costs. The
remaining 60% would be financed as indicated in the following table of US
dollar equivalents:
US$
(a) IDA Credit                             109.0  million
(b) Central Government                      10.8  million
(c) Provincial Government                    7.0  million
(d) Prefecture and County Governments    113.2  million
(e) Agricultural Bank of China              32.3  million
Total               272.3  million



- 27 -
Table 3.3    Project Coat Su-ary
(Yuan million)   Total         (US$ million)  %  Total
Base                            Bae
Local Foreign Total Costs Local Foreign Total  FE Costs
Tuhai River Basin Dev.
Irrigation & Drainage  176.6   70.9   247.5   27  47.6   19.1   66.7  29   27
Agriculture & Forestry  20.4   53.1    73.5    8   5.5   14.3   19.8  72    8
Livestock Production       7.5    5.0    12.5    1   2.0    1.4    3.4  40    1
Agro-Processing           27.9   19.8    47.7    5   7.5    5.3   12.8  41    5
Sub-Total Tuhai River  232.4  148.8   381.2   41  62.6   40.1  102.7  39   41
Coastal Area Dev.
Shrimp Production       226.9  113.4   340.3   37  61.2   30.6   91.8  33   37
Spec. Seafood Prod'n    20.2   48.7    68.9    7   5.4   13.1   18.5  71    7
Sub-Total Coastal       247.1  162.1   409.2   44  66.6   43.7  110.3  40   44
Yi Meng Mtns Area Dev.
Livestock Production    24.2   12.4    36.6    4   6.5    3.4    9.9  34    4
Agro-Processing           53.6   48.0   101.6   11  14.4.  13.0   27.4  47   11
Sub-Total Yi Meng Mtns  77.8   60.4   138.2   15  20.9   16.4   37.3  44   15
Institutional Support    1.1    2.4        3.5    0   0.3    0.6    0.9  69    0
TOTAL BASE COSTS        558.4  373.7   932.1  100 150.4  100.8  251.2  40  100
Phys. Contingencies      18.5   11.0    29.5    3   5.0    3.0    8.0  37    3
Price Contingencies      64.9   40.7   105.6   11   8.1    5.0   13.1  38    5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    641.8  425.4 1,067.2  114 163.5  108.8  272.3  40   108



- 28 -
I. Plocureent
3.39    Procurement arrangoments are sumarized in the following table:
Table 3.4   ProcureMent Profile
.. . .................................................... ..... ..............................................................
Procurement Method
-------- ---- --------------------------- Total
Project Element          ICB      LIB     LCB    Other     NA 1/  Cost
(US$ million)
Land Acquisition                                           10.9    10.9
(0)     (0)
Works                                      29.0   115.3 2/         144.3
(7.2)  (28.2)          (35.4)
Construction Materials    16.5                                      16.5
(15.0)                                   (15.0)
Power Supply                                                1.9      1.9
(0)     (C)
Fertilizer                13.2                                      13.2
(13.2)                                   (13.2)
Supplies, Equipment,      32.3      5.0     7.6     3.2            49.1
Vehicles and             (30.0)   (6.0)   (5.3)   (2.2)           (43.5)
Breeding Stock
Training and Technical                              1.9              1.9
Assistance                                         (1.9)            (1.9)
Engineering & Management                                    3.0      3.0
(0)     (0)
Credit                                                      4.4      4.4
(0)     (0)
Working Capital                                            27.1    27.1
(0)     (0)
Total                     62.0      6.0    36.6   120.4    47.3   272.3
(58.2)   (6.0)  (12.5)  (32.3)    (0)  (109.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
1/  NA - Not applicable
2/  Includes force account work for earthworks and small structures
constructed by organized labor.



-29 -
3.40      All works in the project are too small for international competitive
bidding (ICB) and most for local competitive bidding (LCB). None would exceed
US$0.5m. They are scattered over a wide area and scheduled too far apart to
be of interest to foreign firms. They include many small land development
works, irrigation-canal earthworks, shrimp ponds, and sea dikes and buildings.
All except the buildings and some of the irrigation works would be completed
by county or townshin labor construction teams through force account work,
i.e., the farmers or other beneficiaries of the works themselves. The
buildings and some of the irrigation works (about US$29 million in total)
would be procured on basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.41     Construction materials (US$16.5 million); fertilizer (US$13.2
million); most of the supplies, i.e., pesticides (US$0.4 million) and
polyethylene (US$18.2 million); vehicles (US$1.6 million); and most of the
equipment (US$9.8 million) would be procured on the basis of ICB. A margin of
preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the actual
customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed to
domestic manufacturers on ICB. Fishmeal (US$5.5 million), computers (US$0.2
million) and rabbit pelt processing equipment (US$0.2 million) would be
procured on the basis of limited international bidding (LIB). All sources of
supply have been identified for the LIB items, and their participation will be
solicited directly. In total US$68.0 million, or over 86% of total US$78.8
million worth of goods to be procured for the project, would be open for
international bidding. Of the remaining procurement, US$7.6 million would be
on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. LCB items would include
small equipment and small wooden fishing boats, minor cold storage facilities,
simple farm equipment, and small pumps and motors. US$3.2 million, including
tree saplings (US$1.2 million), breeding stock (US$0.6) and miscellaneous
small items (US$1.4), would be procured through international and local
shopping procedures; the tree saplings and breeding stock are available from
only a limited number of sources. None of the goods reserved for LCB or
shopping would be of interest to foreign bidders. A detailed list of all
goods to be procured is contained in Annex 2 Tables 5.1-5.2. Training and
technical assistance - (US$1.9 million) consisting of approximately US$0.4
million for overseas training, US$1.4 million for domestic training and US$0.1
million for foreign consultants - would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
3.42     All works and goods would be packaged whenever practicable to attract
competition. All procurement packages in excess of US$200,000 would be
subject to IDA's prior review, which would cover about 15% of the works and
92% of the equipment, by value. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post-award review. The procurement schedule (Figure 2), gives detailed
projections on how and when the six largest individual packages, which
constitute 96% of the value of the goods, would be put to bid. The Inter-
national Tendering Company, China National Technical Import Corporation (ITC,
CNTIC) would be the procurement agent and would be responsible for all ICB.
J. Disbursements
3.43      Disbursements for agro-processing equipment, construction and farm
machinery, vehicles, electrification, building materials, feed and fertilizers
would be made at 100% of the foreign exchange costs for directly imported



- 30 -
items or 100% of the ex-factory cost for locally manufactured items and 75% of
local expenditures for imported items procured locally. Disbursements for
overseas training, study tours (subject to prior review by IDA) and consultant
services would be 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements for land
development, irrigation and drainage works, and pond construction would be at
30% of total expenditures. To facilitate start-up activities of the project,
retroactive financing would be provided. An amount of US$ 10.0 million to be
provided would cover expenditures incurred between appraisal (October 1, 1988)
and not more than one year before the signing of the Credit. Disbursements
would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for civil works
contracts, overseas training, study tours and contracts for goods and services
costing less than US$200,000 per contract. SOEs for civil works would be
supported by progress reports showing physical quantities and unit prices
which -would be updated annually by the Project Office (PO) and reviewed by
IDA. Supporting documents would be retained in the PO and be made available
to IDA supervision missions. In order to provide for the efficient
disbursement of credit proceeds, a special account would be opened in US
dollars in a bank (Bank of China, Jinan Branch) acceptable to IDA with an
initial deposit of US$5.0 million, which represents average estimated four-
month expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the special account
would be submitted monthly, or whenever the srecial account is drawrn down to
50% of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
3.44      The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993, and
the closing date would be December 31, 1994. Disbursement experience in China
has been better than Bankwide and regional averages. The project disbursement
profile is in line with that for specific investment loans in China.
Estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Annex 2 Table 7.
K. Accounts and Audits
3.45      Records of all project expenditures would be maintained by the POs
in participating counties. These records would be forwarded to the PMO.
PREDIC would prepare annual consolidated accounts of its project operations
and submit them to the PMO. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
PMO would maintain consolidated project accounts, which would be audited
annually by the State Audit Agency. The audited accounts would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year (para 7.1 (c)).
The audited accounts would also include details of withdrawals from the Credit
account made on the basis of SOEs, and the auditor's opinion as to whether
such withdrawals were against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA.
L.  Environmental Effects
3.46      In Shandong Province, large tracts along the coastline have been
converted from beaches and mudflats into agricultural and industrial land.
The project areas are all on presently unused land, which is currently
unsuitable for crop cultivation. The project would not infringe on any natural
wetlands. Development activities under the project would not adversely affect
wildlife. The establishment of fast growing trees and the proposed tree crop
foodgrain intercropping would reduce wind erosion by providing additional
ground cover. Agro-processing plants would be equipped with adequate and
proper effluent cleaning systems. The capacity of all the agro-processing



- 31 -
plants is small to medium-size. Provision for waste control would be included
in the design of the agro-processing plants and would conform to established
Chinese Standards and would be approved by the local environmental protection
agenlcy. A monitoring system of control would be established by the county
environmental monitoring station, and the environmental impact studies for the
project would be undertaken by the Provincial Environmental Research Institute.
An assurance was obtained from the Province at negotiations that project acti-
vities would conform to appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued
by the Shandong Provincial Government and acceptable to IDA (para 7.1 (d)).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Proiect Organization
/ .i     The Government of Shandong would be responsible for overall project
implementation. The Shandong Association of Agricultural Funds (SAAF) (para.
4 4) would serve as the executive and review board of the project and a Project
Management Office (PMO) would have overall management responsibility for the
technical and financial execution of the project. To ensure efficient project
execution and coordination of the concerned technical government departments
(agriculture, forestry, aquatic products and water conservancy) and agencies at
all levels, the Shandong Government has established Project Offices (POs) at
the provincial, municipal, prefectural, and county levels, which report to the
PMO and plan project components, oversee their execution, and liaise with
government offices at these levels.
4.2       The Haihe Fngineering Command Headquarters (HECH) would be
responsible for implementation of the irrigation and drainage components
proposed for the five irrigation areas (para. 4.7). The three prefectural
Bureaus of Water Conservancy would establish their own prefectural and irriga-
tion area Engineering Command Headquarters (ECH) and the latter would be turned
into Irrigation Area Management Offices (IAMO) on completion of the project.
4.3       Aside from irrigation, most project activites would be carried out by
independent corporations. These corporations are typically organized at the
county level. They would receive investment funds from the Provincial Rural
Economic Development and Investment Corporation (PREDIC) (Chart 1).
B. Shandong Association of Agricultural Funds
4.4       The Shandong Association of Agricultural Funds (SAAF) is headed by
the First Vice Governor as president, with a former vice governor as its vice
president. Other members include the following senior provincial officials:
Director of the Planning Commission; Director, Bureau of Finance; Chairman,
People's Bank of China; Chairman, Agricultural Bank of China; and Directors of
the Bureaus of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Conservancy and Aquatic Products.
The SAAF would act as a policy and review board for the project and would
facilitate inter-agency coordination at the provincial level. It would meet as
needed to coordinate the activities of the project and to make project-related
policy decisions. It would also keep the Provincial Government informed of
overall progress in project implementation.



- 32 -
C. The PMO. PO and HECH
4.5       In preparation for the project, the Project Management Office (PMO)
has bean set up as a unit in the Shandong Planning Commission (PC). It is
headed by the Director of the Shandong PC with a sanior representative from the
Provincial Bureau of Finance. The PMO would have a project manager and three
deputy managers (one each from Bureaus of Finance, Forestry and Aquatic
Products) and would be staffed by about 15 qualified, experienced economists,
accountants, engineers and agronomists. The former project manager and some
former staff members of the North China Plain Agricultural Project have been
recruited to advise the project (para. 1.21). The PMO would have the
responsibility for the overall management of the project. It would (a) draw up
periodic, detailed work programs and budgets for the project, (b) review and
approve PC work plans and budgets, (c) monitor physical and financial progress
of the project, (d) support guidelines for quality control and labor safety for
project enterprises, (e) coordinate and supervise project implementation, (f)
review technical specifications for design, construction, and operation and
maintenance of project work, (g) administer and coordinate project training and
technical assistance programs, (h) develop mechanisms to ensure prompt delivery
of project inputs (i) serve as the Province's liaison with IDA, (j) coordinate
the preparation of technical bid specifications and evaluate bids for the
procurement of equipment and machinery with ITC, CNTIC, which would act on
behalf of the project (para. 3.42), (k) process disbursement of IDA and local
funds, (1) maircain project accounts and economic and financial databases., and
(m) prepare semi-annual progress reports for IDA and a Project Completion Report.
4.6       The Project Offices (POs) would typically be based at the county level
and be headed by county vice chiefs. The relatively few POs at the prefectural
and municipal levels would be correspondingly headed by the vice chiefs at those
levels. The typical PO would be staffed with about 10 professional staff with
specific responsibilities for planning, finance, engineering, management,
argicultural technology, material supply, training, and monitoring and
evaluation. It would (a) coordinate the preparation of work plans and budgets
for PMO approval, (b) review construction contracts for infrastructure works
constructed by local government entitites, (c) provide guidelines on construction
standards, (d) evaluate and approve investments proposed by corporations, and (e)
monitor the physical and financial progress of the project at the county (or
other) level. As one of their major functions, POs would provide liaison between
the project and the various technical and financial bureaus that have support
functions for ths project.
4.7       The Haihe Engineering Command Headquarters (HECH)', reporting to the
PMO, would be responsible for the overall implementation and supervision of the
irrigation and drainage works in the five irrigation areas. Its main functions
include coordination, planning, and review of the project's annual irrigation
work program and budget. The three prefectural Bureaus of Water Conservancy
would establish their own prefectural Engineering Command Headquarters (ECHs),
which would be responsible to HECH. These ECHs would (i) underteke construction
I The HECH, established in 1963, is an existing division within the Provincial
Bureau of Water Conservancy responsible for planning and construction of water
resources development works in the Yellow and the Hai river basins.



- 33 -
of works on the main canals and (ii) subcontract construction works on branch
canils and other distribution channels to the area ECHs, which would be
established in each of the irri ation areas to work closely with the county
governments in organizing laborl to carry out earthworks and construction of
simple itructures. Area ECHs would be turned into Irrigatioan Area Management
Offices (IAMOs) on completion of the project and would be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation areas under the supervision of the
prefectural Bureaus of Water Conservancy. All ECHa would maintain close
coordination with the PMO and the appropriate POn at the provincial, prefectural
and county levels.
D. Coriporations
4.8       Corporations are a new form of organization in China and have been
created as a means of separating the Government's administrative and regulatory
functions from its development and commercial operations. Agriculture, forestry,
animal husbandry and aquatic products corporations exist at the countv, municipal
and prefectural levels, with charters consistent with regulations approved by the
State Council, giving them the status of legal persons. The charters detail the
type and scope of activities, sources and amounts of capital, and borrowing
powers. They describe management structure, including provision for boards of
directors and professional managers. These corporations, which operate as
independent production and commercial entities, would carry out the production,
developmental and commercial activities of the project.
4.9       Existing corporations have a broad range of activities in agriculture,
including implementing projects, introducing foreign capital and technology
through joint ventures and other forms of collaboration, purchasing farmers'
output, providing inputs and technical assistance to farmers, and producing and
marketing products. They usually specialize in particular industries, typically
in the areas of crops, aquatic products, forest products or animal products.
Sometimes they establish agro-processing subsidiary companies in joint ventuze
with local governments, which are operated as separate corporations. Such
corporations at jurisdictional levels below that of the province would be the
prime sub-borrowers, implementing units and asset owners of production and
commercial facilities under the project.
4.10      Legally, corporations have status as county, township and village-owned
enterprises with charters, registered with the General Administration of Industry
and Com.merce (GAIC), defining the scope of their activities, sources and amounts
of capital, borrowing powers and management structure. The charters and licenses
of the major corporations involved in the project have been reviewed and found to
be acceptable. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the agro-
processing facilities would be operated as financially independent entities, and
managed by competent staff with experience and expertise acceptable to IDA
(para.7.1 (e)).
Z According to current practice, project beneficiaries have an obligation to
give 12-15 days/year of their labor for earthworks and construction for a YO.75-
1.5/day food and travel compensation. Labor spent in excess of 15 days will be
paid at prevailing market rate.



- 34 -
4.11      Corporations would evaluate all investments proposed by subsidiaries
prior to submission to the project. An understanding was reached at negotiations
on operational guidelines for the corporations' financial viability, including
requirements that the corporations maintain a debt-equity ratio no greater than
5:1, that the new activities selected for corporation investments and financed
under the project should have a financial rate of return of at least 12%, and
that sublending by corporations to enterprises and farms would be at interest
rates no lower than currently prevailing Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) rates
(para. 7.1(f) and 7.2).  A mid-term review of the financial guidelines for
enterprises would be undertaken by the PMO and a report submitted to IDA.
E.  Provincial Rural Econom'.z Development and Investment Corporation
4.12      In line with the Central Government decentralization policy to shift
financial reponsibility to the provinces, the Shandong Government recently
created the Provincial Rural Economic Development and Investment Corporation
(PREDIC). It would be a financial entity for the project and, in conjunction
with the PMO, would (a) manage foreign and local funds for agricultural
development; (b) organize and prepare prefeasibility and feasibility studies for
investment projects; (c) review appraisals, finance and supervise corporation
investment projects and receive loan repayments.  PREDIC headed by a General
Manager and three Deputy General Managers, would have a staff of about 50
experienced technical and managerial personnel, including engineers, accountants,
economists and agronomists, 40 of whom have already been recruited. It has three
divisions - business plannir.g, policy development and finance - and a general
administrative office.  The business planning and policy development divirtons
would be headed by experienced senior economists and the finance division by a
senior chartered accountant. The business planning division is responsible for
the preparation of PREDIC's annual work plan and would be responsible for review
of the design, appraisal and budgets of corporation projects. The policy
development division is responsible for overseeing the rural reform investments
of the Research Center for Rural Development (RCRD) and preparing the Provincial
Development Plan. It would be responsible for reviewing project proposals and
procurement. The finance division would be mainly responsible for managing
loans, assisting the business planning division in project review, and
maintaining project accounts. The charter and financial structure of PREDIC have
been reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory.
4.13      In order to strengthen PREDIC, newly recruited staff would be provided
with training in accounting, monitoring and evaluation and project appraisal
(para. 3.29). The training would be carried out by staff of the Economic
Research Institute, CAAS; Shandong Provincial Agricultural University and ABC
Beijing. Technical assistance has been included under the project to strengthen
the management capability of PREDIC. Funds have been provided by the Provincial
Government (YlO million) for the purchase of office equipment and computers.
F. Financial Management
4.14      In line with current budgetary practice, proceeds of the IDA Credit
would be onlent by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the Shandong Government at a
5.5% annual rate of interest with repayment over 20 years, including a 5-year
grace period. The Shandong Government would pass on funds for agricultural
development to the PMO and funds for irrigation and drainage to the Engineering



- 35 -
Construction Command Headquarters of the five irrigation schemes. The Shandong
Government itself vould onlend funds to PREDIC for relending to agro-processing
and production enterprises. PREDIC would be required to maintain a debt-equity
ratio of 5:1; whenever PREDIC would exceed its debt-equity threshold by
additional onlending, PMO and IDA would discuss and agree on alternative
arrangem nts. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Shandong
Government, and local governments would approve the loans of corporations under
their jurisdiction. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that project
funds onlent to enterprises and farmers would be onlent at interest rates no less
than ABC charges on subloans for similar purposes with similar maturities and
that such rates would be reviewed from time to time with IDA in light of (a) the
cost of funds to PREDIC and its financial viability and (b) changes in ABC
interest rates (para 7.1(f)).3 An understanding was also reached at negotiations
specifying the terms of loans between the various lenders and borrowers (para
7.2). ABC and the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) are expected to
appraise, disburse and collect repayments for all agro-processing loans under the
project, both those made by themselves and those made by corporations. In the
latter case, ABC and PCBC would be acting as agents for the corporations and
would charge loan processing fees acceptable to both parties.
4.15      Domestic funds, which account for about 60% of the project costs, would
come from contributions from the Shandong Government, or in the case of the Yi
Meng livestock component, from the Central Government, in the form of special
budgetary allocations and resources for the provincial, prefectural, municipal,
county and township governments and loans from ABC. For the mountainous areas,
the Central Government would contribute a portion of special grant monies
allocated for the development of poverty areas.
G. Execution of Proiect Works
4.16      The county corporations or township subsidiaries, upon reviews and
approvals by the PM0, P0 and PREDIC, would be responsible for executing the
project pond development, land development, crop establishment, livestock
development and production components, and providing support services. The
engineering command headquarters set up under prefecture/county leadership would
be responsible for organizing labor contributions for earth work construction.
The line agencies of the local governments would be responsible for carrying out
infrastructure construction such as power supply, roads, bridges and culverts.
Sea dikes and pond construction would be contracted to construction enterprises
and teams of local farmers. The POs, under the guidance of the PMO, would
dlrectly implement the training program. PREDIC would review feasibility studies
T ABC rates, which were positive in real terms through mid-1988 but dropped to
negative levels under the impact of the unanticipated 20% inflation of late 1988
and 1989, are expected shortly to return to positive levels as nominal rates are
increased and as the Government's active anti-inflation policy takes effect. The
Government has already moved significantly to curtail expenditure and to increase
nominal rates. As an example of the latter: in September 1988, the range of
interest rates on industrial loans was raised from 7.9-10.8% to 9.0-16.2%, with
the agricultural loan range increasing shortly thereafter to 9.0-14.4%. In
February 1989, the industrial loan range was raised again to 11.3-24.0%, and
agricultural rates are expected to be raised to similar levels in due course.
Thus, ABC rates are expected to continue to be effective guides for investment.



- 36 -
prepared by corporations for the agro-processing subprojects. Actual appraisal
of these feasibility studies would be carried out by ABC and made available for
review by the Bank prior to implementation. The corporations would contract out
the construction of agro-processing facilities. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the PMO would submit a detailed annrual budget and work program
for new construction and operation and maintenance of existing facilities to IDA
for review by November 1 each year for the following year (para 7.1(g)).
H. Monitoring. Evaluation and ReRorting
4.17       The PHO would establish a monitoring and evaluation system for all
project-related activities. Under its supervision and with assistance from
PREDIC, the POs in the project counties would establish a system of project
monitoring and evaluation, which would have the following principal elements: (a)
monitoring and regular reporting of the physical and financial progress of
project implementation; (b) identification of specific developmental or
operational problems4; (c) periodic evaluation of the progress in generating
expected production benefits; and (d) an ex-post evaluation of the project's
financial and economic benefits and its overall impact. The objective of the
system would be to identify constraints early and initiate corrective measures.
In addition, the system would be expected to lead to an upgrading of county-level
implementation capabilities.
4.18      In the early stages of the project, the POs would conduct surveys in
their respective project areas to determine then-current input use and
production, crop and livestock yields, and farm incomes. These would provide the
baseline from which to measure changes resulting frem the project. Thereafter,
periodic monitoring of the project areas during the entire implementation period
would provide the bases for evaluating changes. Key indicators are shown in
Annex 3 Tables 11.1-11.5. A project launch workshop would be held shortly before
the commencement of major project activities. Key monitoring targets and
indicators would be finalized at this workshop. Annual seminars attended by
staff from all project counties would be organized by the PMO to discuss findings
and special problems faced by the different counties. Experts from key technical
and research institutes within China would be invited to these seminars. A
detailed mid-term review of the project would be carried out by the PMO.
Technical assistance would be provided to the PMO in developing the scope and
methodology for monitoring and evaluation activities.
4.19      A project physical and financial progress report would be compiled by
each PO and by PREDIC on a six-monthly basis and submitted to the PMO. It would
be the responsibility of the PMO to prepare a consolidated report for the project
as a whole for submission to IDA by J=ly 31 and January 31 of each year.
Finally, the PMO would prepare a Project Completion Report for submission to IDA
no later than six months after the completion of the Credit's disbursement.
4  Such as shortage of construction, operational, or agricultural raw materials
(steel, wood, stone, fishmeal, feed, fertilizer, fuel, etc.), labor, engineering
or construction difficulties, and plant or animal pests and diseases.



- 37 -
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES
A. kroduction
Cro22inif Patterns
5.1       The cropping pattern in most of the 12 counties of the Tuhai Basin
project area is typically wheat-based. Coin, soybean, peanut and cotton are
planted from mid-April to mid-June as soon as the wheat is harvested.
Depending on the type of vegetables, planting commaences from March to December
and harvesting from April to October. In terms of area cropped, in all
rotations, the percentage for various crops is: wheat (39%), corn (24%), other
foodgrains (5%), cotton (21%), soybean (8%), vegetables (2%), and peanut (1%).
Cropping patterns wou.ld not be expected to change without the project; with the
project, wheat is expected to decline to 33% of the cropped area, with corn and
cotton increasing to 26% and 23%, respectively. With the project, there would
also be a modest increase in cropping intensity, from 142% to 147%.
5.2       The pattern of tree-crop and forestry plantings would also change
with the project, primarily with increases in the area planted to dates and the
introduction of fast-growing trees. Dates are mainly planted in rows between
and within foodgrain fields and act as windbreaks with little or no effect on
crop yields. The fast-growing-tree subcomponent would introduce a new pattern
of cultivation in blocks on a sandy wasteland. A typical farm would consist of
one hectare of forest trees planted Ls borders surrounding an orchard and a
vegetable plot.
Crog Yields and Productio
5.3     Improved irrigation and drainage combined with the introduction of high
yielding varieties and application of balanced fertilizer, following leaching
of salt in areas affected by salinity and water logging, would increase crop
yields significantly. Wheat yield would increase from 2.5 t/ha at present to
3.5 t/ha; likewise, corn yields are expected to increase from 2.7 t/ha to 3.8
t/ha, soybean from 1.1 t/ha to 1.65 t/ha and cotton from 0.6 t/ha (ginned
cotton) to 0.8 t/ha. Present and full-development areas, yields and production
for various crops are shown in Table 5.1.
Mariculture
5.4     Shrim2.  The shrimp farms would be operated under three different
arrangements; (a) as county enterprises, (b) as private enterprises and (c) as
corporation enterprises. The county enterprises, the preponderant arrangement,
would be operated under the guidance of professional management teams, with the
operation of individual growout ponds contracted out to farm households (an
average of 3 workers per pond). The households would receive fixed payments
per year, plus a bonus or share of profits based on overall financial
performance. The private enterprises would be individual farms; farmers would
obtain their pond leases in auction markets. Corporations would also be
engaged in shrimp production and would operate with salaried workers.
Technical supports for all producers would be provided by the Aquatic Products
Bureau. Production would involve the collection of brood shrimp from the wild



- 38 -
and the production of post-larvae in hatcheries at each site (para. 3.25).
When post-larvae in the hatcheries reach the 0.7-1.0 cm size, they would be
used for stocking the growout ponds at the rate of 300,000/ha.
Table 5.1 CroRRed Areas. Yields and Production
Area               Yield                Production
Present Future    Present   Future    Present   Future
('000 ha)            (ton/ha)              ('000 ton)
Wheat             176.5   168.1      2.5       3.5        441.3     588.4
Corn              108.5   131.4     2.7        3.8        293.0     449.3
Soybean            35.6    33.7     1.1        1.6         39.2      53.9
Cotton a/          93.5   114.9     0.6        0.8         56.1      91.9
Peanut b/           5.8     5.8     1.6        1.8          9.3      10.4
Vegetables         10.3    10.7    13.5       15.0        139.1     160.5
Chinese date         -     50.0 c/   -         1.3           -       65.0
Fast Growing Trees          3.0       -       70.Od/                206.0
Wasteland         (17.7)    (-)
Total Cropped      454.6  498.6
Total Cultivated  320.7  338.5
Cropping
Intensity(%)     142   147
a/ ginned, b/ shelled, c/ equivalent to 12,500 ha pure stand, and d/ based on
poplar yield of 70 m3 clear-cut at year 10.
5.5     Based on experience gained from other shrimp culture operations in
China and abroad, the project's deeper ponds, better water control, and
improved feed formulation, should result at full development in a survivai rate
of about 33% and an average yield of 1.65 t/ha. About 80% of the harvested
shrimp would be in the 12-15 cm size range and 20% in the 10-12 cm range.
Total marketed production at full development would be around 8,800t. About 75%
of the shrimp (10cm and above) would be frozen in the heads-off, shell-on form.
The remainder (25%) would be sold unprocessed in the local market.
5.6     ScalloRs:   The proposed project would establish around 530 ha of
scallop fields where sea conditions and tidal currents are favorable. Seeds
measuring 10 m- would be stocked in brooding cages and when harvested would
attain a marketable size of 60-70 am. Based on available information, average
yields of 45 t/ha (shell-on) are expected with the project. Given a 15-month
harvest cycle, average production per year is estimated at 15,900 tons.
5.7     Abalone:   The project would establish around 66 ha of abalone growing
areas over two years. The stocking density of abalone would be 600,000
pieces/ha (10mm size); full grown ones would be harvested two years later.
Based on average yields of 7.5 t/ha (shell-on), annual production arising out
of the project is estimated at 248 tons.



- 39 -
5.8     Sea Cucumber:  About 200 ha of sea cucumber growing fields would be
established in two selected areas. They would be cultivated on artificially
constructed reefs made from rock material and cement. Hatchery produced seed
(30mm) would be placed on the artificial reefs at 6-7 meter depth, at a
stocking rate of about 65,000/ha, and fully grown ones would be harvested at
the end of two years. Based on experience in existing commercial operations,
average yields of 112 kg/ha (dried) are expected.  Average annual production is
estiiated at 22.4 tons.
Liestock
5.9     The principal livestock in the project area are rabbits, pigs, broilers
and geese (in the Yi Meng Mountains livestock component) and beef cattle, sheep
and broilers (in Tuhai River Basin component). Breeding farms would be managed
by township or village enterprises and specialized households would be engaged
in raising livestock.
5.10     Rabbits:  Rabbits are expected to give quick returns to farmers in the
Yi Meng Mountains project areas and are particularly suited to the small scale
farmers in those areas. Through the upgrading or new establishment of a total
of six county and 56 township rabbit breeding farms, the project would annually
supply farmers with around 363,400 superior-breed rabbits. Along with better
technical support and improved feed, this would enable households to
significantly increase rabbit meat and hair production above present levels.
An average rabbit-meat-producing specialized household (with breeding stoc.k of
10 females and 2 males) would increase annual rabbit production for sale from
240 animals (each weighing 2.1 kg) at present, to 300 animals (weighing 2.3 kg)
with the project. An ordinary farm household (with 2 females and 1 male) would
increase annual rabbit production from 40 animals (1.9 kg) at present, to 50
animals (2.2 kg) with the project. Based on an estimated 84,000 families
participating in the project, incremental rabbit meat production arising from
the project is expected to reach about 14,260 tons annually at full development
(year 7). Some of the households producing meat would also raise hair rabbits;
incremental rabbit hair production would be an estimated 120 tons annually. It
would be sold to local processing facilities, which would be upgraded under the
project to handle the increased output.
5.11    Eilg:  The project would support the development of lean meat pork
production. A pig breeding farm would be established with 100 Laiwu breeding
sows to provide 800 sows annually to farmers. Some 100 specialized households
would be involved in producing 13,300 sows annually. An artificial
insemination station, to be upgraded under the project, would maintain 20 stud
boars sufficient to service 40,000 sows annually. At full development, some
6,400 households would fatten about 173,000 lean meat pigs, providing about
7,780 tons of lean meat pork for the local market. Incremental benefits from
the project would come essentially through the higher survival rate, better
feed conversion, and the greater market value of higher quality pork.
5.12     Poultry and Geese:   The project would expand the production of
broilers in Pingyi and Shanghe and geese in Yinan county.  Two parent breeding
farms for broilers and a goose breeding farm would be established under the



- 40 -
project. The breeding farms would provide chicks to 1,550 poultry specialized
households to raise 3.8 million broilers, and goslings to raise 1.8 million
geese each year.
5.13     Beef Cattle and Sheeo:   In addition to existing pasture areas,
project counties in the Tuhai Basin have saline and other unused grasslands, in
which pasture can be successfully established, and abundant crop residues,
which can support livestock production. About 28,700 ha of grassland and
pasture would be established or upgraded under the project for the purposes of
raising beef and sheep in Wudi, Shen and Chiping Counties. In addition, a
cattle breeding farm (in Zhanhua) and two sheep breeding farms (in Chiping and
Zhanhua) would be established to provide superior breeding stock to households
in the project area. Technical support sevices (including artificial
insemination) would also be strengthened. As a result of the project, an
estimated 3,500 specialized households (each with 4 head of store stock (i.e.,
cattle acquired for fattening)] would increase beef cattle production by an
estimated 3,500 tons (live-weight equivalent); and around 4,600 specialized
households (each with 50 ewes and 2 breeding males) would increase sheep
production resulting in around 1,300 tons of incremental wool and 1000 tons
(live-weight equivalent) of incremental meat production.
B. Marketing for Export
5.14             In China, most foreign trade is carried out by one of several
centralized foreign trade corporations organized along product lines (FTC,).
The FTCs are regulated by the trade policies and plans of the Ministry of
Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT) and under it, at provincial
levels, by Foreign Trade Bureaus (FTBs). The FTCs, often through provincial
branches, conduct all trading activities from the identification of markets and
negotiation of contracts, to the procurement of goods from producers and
shipment to buyers. The export of aquatic products produced under the project,
for instance, would be handled by the China National Cereals, Oil and
Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation (CEROILS), through its Shandong
branch. The FTCs seek buyers mainly at the semi-annual Guangzhou (Canton)
Trade Fair. Virtually all of China's agricultural exports are marketed through
bulk contracts entered into at these fairs.
5.15             A major drawback of this system is that producers face prices
negotiated with the FTCs that may have little relationship with world price
developments. Producers also hav.e very little contact with foreign buyers
since the FTCs are the points of contact between China and these buyers. This
leads to two serious consequences. First, local producers often do not have
access to all necessary information, thereby limiting their ability to react to
market opportunities. Secondly, the absence of con:acts with foreign buyers
means that production enterprises forego much "free" technical assistance in
matters such as product quality, other product specifications and new product
development. While this is the present situation, the foreign trade system is
now undergoing reform, with the Government gradually giving more autonomy in
decision making to provincial-level institutions and exporting firms. It is
likely that during the course of project implementation the existing export
marketing system will undergo change in this direction. While no firm decision
has as yet been taken, it is possible that the shrimp project areas will become
part of newly established "economic zones", where local producers and exporters



- 41 -
will be able to make direct contract with foreign buyers. At this time, it is
difficult to foresee exactly whAt system will emerge, particularly at the
county and producer leveis. One development that has occurred is that
provincial corporations of various sorts, as distinguished from branches of
national FTCs, are being given responsibilities in foreign trade. For example,
the Shandong Provincial Government established the Shandong Provincial Aquatic
Products Import and Export Corporation (in June 1988) to engage in shrimp
exports.  This corporation would have the autonomous right to export shrimp
from the project. The importance of these new developments is that the
producers would be brought in closer contact with foreign buyers.
C. Markets
5.16              There will be no difficulty in finding markets for the
incremental production from the project.  Domestic demand for food and raw
material is rising each year due to increasing population and income. Per
capita income is expected to rise in real terms during 1988-92 period by over
6% annually, which combined with favorable income elasticities of demand,
promises a secure domestic market for any non-exported products. The increasing
production of village and town enterprises brought about by the rural reforms
has increased the demand for raw materials. Thus, it is expected that most of
the incremental production of the project will be consumed in the project areas
or in nedrby urban areas. Substantial amounts of shrimp, specialty marine
products, rabbit meat and fur, and dates would be exported. The situation of
relevant international and domestic markets is as follows:
5.17              ShrimD:  The market for shrimp, an important project-generated
output in value terms, is characterized by growing export markets and favorable
domestic demand. China produced an estimated 315,000 tons of shrimp in 1987,
representing around 14% of the total world shrimp production of around 2.2
million tons. A growing part of this production has been the product of
mariculture. Cultured shrimp production (P. orientalis) grew from virtually no
production in 1976 to more than 80,000 tons in 1986. About 17,000 tons of this
is presently produced in Shandong. The incremental production from the project
of around 8,800 tons annually would represent less than 3% of China's present
total production.
5.;8              It is estimated that about 30% of world production in 1987
(650,000 tons) was for exports. China contributed 47,200 tons of this. Shrimp
from China was mainly exported to Japan (28,000t) and t-ie USA (19,000t).  Total
Japanese shrimp imports increased from 160,000 tons in 1981 to 245,000 tons in
1987, with China's share increasing from less than 1% to 11% in 1987. Imports
of shrimp into the USA increased from 101,000 tons in 1981 to 217,000 tons in
1987. The Chinese share of the market has increased from negligible levels in
the early 1980s to 9% in 1987.
5.19              The Japanese and USA demand for shrimp continues to rise, and
both countries have become increasingly dependent on imports to satisfy
domestic demand. With Japanese production stabilized at around 60,000 tons,
expected increase in demand due to rising incomes is expected to be met by
imports. Five years ago, about half of the USA's shrimp came from domestic
production; presently two-thirds is impcrted. Per capita consumption of shrimp
in the USA is still under 2 kg per annum. It would seem that there is room for



- 42 -
increased supplies in the US market, considering increasing income and
population. Exporta of 50% of project production (4,400 tons) would, in any
case, only represent 1 of combined 1987 Japanese and US imports. Beyond the
Japanese and US markets, China has not yet exported to any extent to European
markets, which are now supplied mostly by Northern European producers. Since
Chinese shrimp export prices are competitive, market expansion should be
possible.
5.20              Domestic markets for shrimp are also expanding.  Annual per
capita consumption of all fishery products is still only about 9 kg. Shrimp
supplies for the domestic market are now limited to small quantities of
freshwater shrimp and undersized or inferior quality sea shrimp. With
increasing per capita income, it is expected that the level of consumption will
rise significantly in the near future.
5.21              ScalloRs. Abalone and Sea cucumber.   Most of the project's
production of these products will be consumed domestically; the small quantity
exported will be in processed form. In 1986, per capita consumption of
scallops in China was 25 grams compared to 1,250 grams in Japan. These
products are delicacies in the Chinese diet; thus with the rise in per capita
income, it is expected that demand will increase. The deep freezing and
packaging facilities provided by the project would enable these products to be
transported to urban markets inside or outside Shandong.
5.22              Crops and Timber.  In the 1985-87 period, China achieved self-
sufficiency in grain production for the first time in two decades and even had
net grain exports of US$23 mil'ion in 1987. In Shandong, 1987 grain output was
32.5 million tons, of which wheat was 15.6 million tons. The increase in grain
production due to the project from 0.7 to 1.1 million tons would be sold in the
national Chinese grain market, since Shandong is presently a surplus producer
of grain. Cotton produced in Shandong is intended mainly for local use. The
36,000 tons of incremental output will be absorbed by the local textile
industries. The incremental production of timber, 206,000 m3 of wood would be
absorbed very quickly in the iapid expansion of the local construction
industry. Chinese dates are well regarded in China, both fresh and processed.
They are widely used in Chinese medicine and are believed to cure several
ailments. Dates and date medicinals also have high demand in Hongkong, Macao
and Southeast Asian countries. The project's incremental production of 65,000
tons would be easily absorbed in domestic or international markets (para 3.18).
5.23       Rabbit Hair and Fur. Sheep Wool. Goose Feathers and Down.  Rabbit
hair can be marketed as yarn (angora yarn) or as knitted clothing. Angora yarn
is expected to have a rapidly increasing market in Japan, West Germany, Italy
and Hong Kong as these countries are increasing their production of angora and
angora-blend clothing. In addition, angora blends have been using 40-70% of
angora at present, as compared to 20% in the past. For these reasons, it is
expected that the demand for angora yarn on the world market would increase
rapidly in the near future. Domestic knitted goods producers would also expand
their demand for angora in response to the expected increase in the demand for
angora clothing in international and domestic markets. In 1986, China exported
2.9 million pieces of angora wool clothing and sold 2 million pieces on the
domestic market. Most of the rabbit hair production under the project would be
marketed domestically as knitted goods. The demand for rabbit fur is also



- 43 -
expected to increase in the near future. This is due to recent developments in
fur dyeing, whereby rabbit fur can be converted into high-quality simulated fox
fur. It is expected that the use of this process will result in a product with
expanding domestic and foreign markets. Sheep wool produced under the project
will find a ready domestic market. Shandong Province is now a net importer of
wool. In 1986, provincial wool demand was 25,666 tons while production was
only 10,224 tons. Thus, the province could easily absorb the 240 tons of wool
production expected from the project. In addition to domestic consumption of
goose feathers and down, feather products are exported to Japan, USA, France,
West Germany, Poland and other countries. In 1986, the value of China's
feather-good exports was US$2.5 million.
5.24             Rabbit Meat. Pork. Beef. Mutton and Poultry Markets.  Little
is known about the domestic market for rabbit meat, except that it is not
large. It is a specialty food in the Chinese diet, and consumption can be
expected to increase in line with rising incomes. Rabbit meat has a high
percentage of white, lean meat, which has made it increasingly popular in
nutriticnally conscious international markets and also suitable for use in meat
blends. A CAAS study therefore expects export market demand for frozen,
boneless rabbit meat to increase. As an indicator of the strong export demand,
the processing plant in Yishui County has had a guaranteed order since 1974
from the relevant FTC for all their rabbit meat production. Incremental pork
production under the project would supply local markets which are in deficit.
Pig production and pork prices are closely related to grain prices. In 1987,
following a national increase in grain prices, pig raising declined and the
pork price rose. In Shandong Province, pig production dropped by 17% between
1986-87 because of higher grain prices. Pork prices have since risen
substantially, and the anticipated pork production under the project would be
easily absorbed inside and outs4-de the province. The markets for Bohai black
cattle and beef products are reported to be good. Beef from Bohai cattle has a
reputation for good quality. In 1987, 500 head of Bohai cattle were exported
to Hong Kong. There is of course a large domestic beef market in China, in
which Shandong producers participate. The incremental chicken production from
the project would be marketed domestically. Chicken is a high-preference meat
product in China. With an increase in per capita income, the present low level
of per capita chicken consumption (1.5 kg per capita in 1986) is expected to
increase rapidly.
D. Prices
5.25              In recent years, China has implemented a number of reforms
intended to expand the role of markets and prices in directing the production
and trade of agricultural commodities. In 1984, the quota procurement system
was replaced by a contract procurement systenh. Although the new contract
system has not been uniformly implemented in all regions for all products, the
overall effect has been to bring procurement prices for most crops more closely
in line with market prices and to allow farmers greater autonomy in
establishing cropping patterns. In 2985, wholesale and retail prices and the
marketing of fruits, vegetables, aquatic and livestock products, and a range of
other commodities were decontrolled. In response, prices of these products
rose by 20-40% in the first half of 1985 and almost doubled by 1987. The bulk
of commercial production of these goods is now traded on the free market. As a
result of these reforms and those in foreign trade, project farmers face prices
which generally are consistent with border prices.



- 44 -
5.26              CroRs and Inputs.  In Shandong Province, the government still
procures significant percentages of various crops; in 1987: wheat (65%), corn
(35%), cotton (98%) and soybean (10%). The remainder was sold in commercial
markets. For financial analysis, the 1987 weighted average of procurement,
negotiated and free market prices are used for these crops and free market
prices are used for other products. For economic analysis, economic farmgate
prices of wheat, corn, cotton, soybean, peanut, urea and DAP are based on the
international price estimates of the Bank Group, adjusted for international and
domestic transport and handling costs. The economic farmgate price for dates
is based on the price received by the FTC in 1987, adjusted for domestic
transport and handling costs.
5.27              Livestock:  Financial prices for livestock products are based
on market prices prevailing in Shandong. Economic prices for exportable animal
products such as beef, pork, chicken, rabbit meat, rabbit hair, lamb and wool
are based on international market prices or prices received by the FTC in 1987.
5.28              Shrimp and Specialty Seafood.  As mentioned above, export
prices are negotiated directly by the FTCs. However, the price paid to
producers for shrimp purchased for export is based on a "guidance price", which
has been largely unchanged over the past five years.  Prices for shrimp sold on
the domestic markets are typically negotiated between buyers and producers.
The financial analysis has been carried out using the average presently
prevailing price of Y15,000/t of fresh head-on shrimp. ior economic anaiysis,
the shrimp border price (frozen, heads-off) of Y14,050/t is based on export
prices actually received by the FTCs during the Spring 1987 and 1988 Guangzhou
Fair. For other shellfish, prevailing market prices have been used for the
financial analysis and border prices for economic analysis.
5.29              Economic and financial prices for crops, livestock and shrimp
and shrimp feed can be found in Annex 3 Tables 6, 7, 8.1 and 8.2.



- 45 -
VI.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICaTON AM RISKS
A. Bnefits
6.1       The major benefits of the project are incremental production, which
would result from the investment and from the adoption of new technologies, and
increased rural incomes. The crop development component of the project would
provide incremental production of wheat, corn, cotton, peanuts and soybeans
valued, net of on-farm costs, at US$72 million annually (1988 dollars) at full
development. This would be achieved through increased irrigation, reduced soil
salinity and waterlogging, improved seeds of high yielding varieties and
increased provision of fertilizer. Net incremental benefits from the forestry
subcomponent in Year 10 would be about US$21 million and US$6.6 million.
respectively, from fast growing trees and dates intercropped with foodgrains.
6.2       The mariculture component of the project would produce incremental
output valued at US$25 million annually net of production costs, by
establishing new production facilities primarily for shrimp but also for
scallops, sea cucumber and abalone. It would also expand and/or construct new
feed mills and processing plants, water supply and drainage facilities. The
livestock component of the project would provide incremental production of
cattle and sheep; rabbit meat, wool and fur; goose meat, feathers and down;
pork and chicken valued net of production costs at US$9 million annually.
6.3       The new tubewells and water conveyance structures constructed by the
project would also provide water for domestic use (para 3.24). Additionally,
roads and power supplies financed by the project would provide market access
and light for farm households (para. 2.13).
B. Emloyvment and Incomes
6.4      Employment opportunities generated by the project would help reduce
existing seasonal underemployment among the rural labor force in and around the
project areas. The major incremental employment opportunity is in the Yi Meng
Mountains area, where animal raising would create employment for 81,000
households and the processing subcomponent would directly create aproximately
3,650 jobs. In the coastal areas, full-time jobs woula be created for 4,800
families who would participate in the production of mariculture products and
for appproximately 5,600 people in processing, cold storage and feed mills. In
the Tuhai River Basin component, farming activities in the irrigated areas of
the project would increase the annual demand for labor by about 11 mandays per
farm (14.3 million mandays or about 52,000 manyears for the project). While
this employment effect is substantial, the main impact of the Tuhai component
would be to increase labor productivity and incomes.
6.5      Incomes and Poverty Alleviation.  The project would have a very
substantial impacc in increasing income to project beneficiaries, most of whom
presently have income that is below, often significantly below, the provincial
average. The Shandong average per capita income 's Y450 (US$121), while the
average per capita incomes in Coastal, Tuhai and Yi Meng areas are Y410
(US$110), Y396 (US$107) and Y342 (US$93), respectively. Compared to these
area averages, the poorest project counties have significantly lower incomes:
the poorest 2 out of the 4 Coastal project counties have an average per capita
income of Y326 (US$88); the 7 poorest of the 12 Tuhai counties have an average



- 46 -
per capita income of Y360 (US$93) and the 5 poorest of the 8 Yi Meng project
counties have an average per capita income of only Y250 (US$68). It should be
noted that the Yi Meng average income is only 73% of the Shandong provincial
average (qualifying it, according to Government classification, as one of the
18 poorest areas in China) and that, further, the 5 poorest Yi Meng project
counties have an average per capita income only 56% of the provincial average.
The Yi Meng families are clearly the poorest of the poor.
6.6       The project would substantially increase the incomes and standards of
living of 1.3 million farm families, some of thtem very poor, in the Tuhai area.
Farm model analysis shows that farm income (from crops alone) would increase by
55% with the project - from an estimated Y880/farm at present to Y1,366/farm.
The average return per manday in crops would increase from Y3.8 per manday to
Y5.6 per manday. The average income per farm (crops plus off-farm employment)
would increase from Y1,280 to Y1,766 (Annex 3 Table 2.1). In addition,
households who presently raise sheep and would adopt new techology with the
project would have additional incremental income of Y732, and households who
would invest in cattle for the first time would have additional annual income
of Y1,600 (Annex 3 Table 4). With the addition of sheep or cattle, project pe
capita income of Y342 from crops plus off-farm employment alone would be raised
to Y525 with sheep and to Y742 with cattle.
6.7       In the Yi Meng area, the farm model analysis shows that farm income
for 200,000 very poor farm families would increase from Y969 without the
project to Y2,089 with the project (an increase of 115%). With an average of
4 persons per household, per capita income would double from Y250 to Y522, and
the average return per manday would increase from f2.9 to Y6.2. This would
substantially increase the incomes of households this poor area. A typical
farm analysis assumes that the farm would produce meac rabbits, rabbit hair and
geese under the project (Annex 3 Table 2.2). Households that produce pigs
would earn higher incomes than households producing only rabbits and geese, and
specialized households would earn more income than production households of the
same livestock mix.  Summaries of benefits from each activity and each type of
household are shown in Annex 3 Table 5. In the Coastal area, annual incomes for
the 4,800 families with new full-time jobs would be Y2,200/family or
Y550/capita.
C. Job ODportunities for Women
6.8       The major social benefit derived from the project, apart from poverty
alleviation, is the generation of job opportunities for women in the poor Yi
Meng Mountains area, sinci the raising of small livestock is mainly done by
women. With the project, women would have access to new productive work
raising animals both in their own households and as workers in breeding farms.
Approximately 99,700 women would have control of small animal-raising
enterprises and about 370 would find new jobs in the breeding farms. In the
project as a whole, the types of jobs where women are frequently employed in
China would also be available for women in processing activities established by
the project. Incremental employment in new processing activities, such as meat
packing, goose feather and down processing, rabbit wool spinning and knitting,
and date processing would be created for approximately 3,245 women. An
addicional 3,800 women would also be hired in processing and packing
mariculture products.



- 47 -
D. Cost Recover
6.9       Recovery of project costs and rents would come in the form of (a)
contributed labor during project construction, (b) contributed labor for
project O&M, (c) payments received from beneficiaries for the purchase of
chemical fertilizer, planting materials, animal stock and other farm inputs,
(d) increased revenues from water charges (raised from Y12 to Y28 per 1000 cu
m, effective January 1, 1988), which would recover 100% of the 0 & H and 20% of
the capital costs of irrigation works, and (e) increased revenue from
agriculture and rural enterprise taxes through increased agricultural and
rural-enterprise production. The project has an overall cost recovery index of
26% (Annex 3 Table 12). An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
adequate irrigation water charges would be collected to meet at least the full
annual O&M costs and 20% of the total capital construction costs of the
irrigation works borne by the Province (para 7.1(h)).
6.10      Farms and enterprises would be asked to repay loans received from
corporations on schedules consistent with their cash flows. Local ABC and PCBC
branches would serve as agents of the corporations in both disbursement and
recovery of loans for service charges to be agreed between the parties.  The
corporations would repay PREDIC, whicb in turn would repay BOF ard subsequently
MOF, for the use of the IDA credit according to prescribed schedules. Domestic
funds would be recovered on terms and conditions determined by local
governments. In addition, the corp rations would pay taxes at normal
enterprise rates and would be allowed to retain net profits. Cost recovery for
agro-technical extension centers and training would be effected through service
fees.
E. Financial and Economic Analysis
Financial Analysis
6.11      CroD Development.  A per-hectare crop budget analysis for cotton,
wheat, soybeans, corn, peanuts, and vegetables, has been done with and without
the project. The results show substantial annual incremental net benefits for
cotton, wheat, soybeans and corn of Y510, 368, 308, 299, respectively, per
hectare. These represent respective increments of 38%, 80%, 61% and 67% (Annex
3 Table 4). Financial analyses have been carried out for investment in date
intercropping and woodlot development, and they show high FRRs - 27% and 40%,
respectively.
6.12      Livestock.  Financial analysis has been carried out on a model basis
for various county/township and household livestock farms in the project area.
The county/township analysis shows acceptable rates of return for all breeding
farm models, ranging from 13 to 28%, as follows:



- 48 -
Livestock - Summary of Financial Analysis Results
Items                        Annual Net Return         FRR         NPV at 12%
(Y'000)            %           (Y'000)
Chicken Demonstration Farm            327.0              28         1,125.0
Beef Feedlot                        1,075.0              28         3,673.0
County Rabbit Breeding Farm           103.2              25           330.0
Township Hair Rabbit Breeding Farm   46.5                23           115.0
County Goose Breeding Farm             92.8              23           259.0
Breeding Chicken Farm, (Pingyi)   1,431.0                21         3,628.0
County Pig Breeding Farm              118.4              18           235.0
Meat Rabbit Multiplication Farm        25.7              17            42.0
County Cattle Breeding Farm            62.4              15            69.0
County Sheep Breeding Farm            258.8              13            84.0
6.13        Financial analysis was also carried out for household livestock
farms. The results show that all investments have high rates of return and
provide substantial incremental income to farm families. The results of
analysis are summarized below:
Livestock - Summary of Financial Analysis Results
Items                       Net Inc. Annual Return       FRR      NVP at 12%
(Yuan)            %            (Yuan)
Specialized Pig Fattening Household       88              78             417
Specialized Pig Breeding Household       790              77            3762
Specialized Household Broilers          3181              61           16276
Sheep Specialized Household              731              57            4224
Rabbit Hair Producers                     82              44             328
Goose Fattening Production Household   123                41             131
Commodity Goose Specialized Household  271                32             918
Specialized Household Meat Rabbit        231              32            1141
Specialized Household Hair Rabbit        127              32             480
Meat Rabbit Household                     29              28             105
Cattle Specialized Household            1607              15            1551
6.14      Mariculture.  Average annual costs of production are estimated at
about Y12,000/ha (excluding interest on working capital), generating average
gross revenues of Y24,000/ha. After taxes (5% of gross revenue), net cash
inflow before financing would be about Y10,800/ha. In estimating the financial
rates of return, all investment costs related to establishing the hatcheries,
including the pumping stations, as well as all investment costs for management
and technical support have been taken into consideration. The table below
summarizes the financial analysis of the mariculture componnent.



- 49 -
Mariculture - Summary of Financial Analysis
Item           Annual Net Return           FRR            NPV at 12%
(Y Million)             (l)           (Y Million)
Shrimp Ponds
- Hanting              21.6                18.7               43.1
- Wudi                 14.6                18.7                29.6
- Zhanhua              21.6                18.3               42.5
Abalone                 5.0                21.9                13.6
Scallop                23.4                39.8               100.3
Sea Cucumber            1.5                25.5                 4.7
As can be seen from the above, adequate financial returns would be generated
from the investments to provide incentives to participants. Furthermore, the
returns would be more than adequate to meet interest and loan repayment
obligations at prevailing ABC terms.
6.15      Processing. Financial analysis has been carried out for 10
representative processing models in order to make a preliminary assessment of
the viability of different types of investment. Results of the analysis show
acceptable rates of return between 13-25% (Annex 3 Table 9). More detailed
financial and economic analysis would be carried out for each processing
investment before implementation of each subcomponent.
Economic Analysis
6.16      Economic analyses have been carried out for the principal components
(crop, date, fast growing tree, livestock, and mariculture) and for the project
as a whole, using constant 1988 border prices. In carrying out the analysis
for the project as a whole, the agro-processing and seed components, which must
be justified individually at the time of individual loan approval, have been
excluded. However, processing costs (including amortization and depreciation)
have been estimated based on similar existing operations and deducted in the
calculation of farm gate prices in border price terms. All other investment
costs along with physical contingencies have been taken into account in
estimating the economic costs of the project.
6.17      World Bank price projections or average export prices actually
realized by China were used to estimate the farmgate economic prices in 1988
constant terms for traded inputs and outputs. Economic prices for non-traded
goods were estimated using conversion factors (summarized in Annex 3 Table 3).
These conversion factors were estimated based on an analysis of the deviation
of social opportunity cost from the actual financial prices prevailing in
Shandong caused by taxes and price distortions in non-traded good inputs. All
economic values were converted to local currency at the prevailing official
exchange rate of Y3.71 to US$1. Farm and unskilled labor has been valued at
Y2.28 per manday, representing 65% of the prevailing wage rate of about
Y3.5/manday in the project areas. Based on the above, the results of the
economic analysis are summarized in Table 6.1.



- 50 -
Table 6.1  Summary of Economic Analysis
Switching Value at 12%
NPV at      Base Case      Incre.   Incre. Operat.
Components                 12%           ERR       Production    Costs
(Y Million)          (%)         (%)          (%)
1. Tuhai Irrigation &           593.8        33.6       -37.0         58.8
Drainage
2. Mariculture
-Shrimp Subcomponent  151.1          22.4       -21.2         26.9
-Specialty Seafood      98.6         27.7       -35.0         53.8
Total Component       249.7         24.0        -25.1        33.5
3. Livestock
-Rabbit Subcomponent   39.5          25.9       -17.1         20.6
-Poultry                29.0         44.8       -17.1         20.7
-Pig Production          7.6        45.5        -68.6        218.3
-Cattle/Sheep           32.4         51.7       -27.3         37.5
Total Component      108.5         34.6        -20.5        25.7
4. Date Interplanting           155.7        27.0        -67.0        192.0
5. Tree Planting                 19.5        42.0        -92.0       1210.0
TOTAL PROJECT       1,127.1         29.1        -34.1        51.8
6.18      Crops:  Incremental costs and benefits for the component as a whole
have been estimated "with" and "without" the project. Incremental costs
include all investment costs plus physical contigencies, incremental O&M costs
(average of Y54.5/irrigated ha (economic cost)) and water pumping costs.1
Fertilizer to be used in the project is costed at farmgate economic prices and
all farm labor including family labor has been taken into consideration in
calculating the ERR. Incremental benefits are estimated on the basis of
average yield projections from representative average cropping patterns "with"
and "without" the project for the entire area covering the five irrigation
schemes. Economic prices for crops and principal inputs are summarized in
Annex 3.
6.19      Based on the above assumptions, and a 25-year period of analysis, the
ERR of the crop development component is estimated at 34%. The relatively high
return reflects the existence of sunk costs in all five systems and the
resulting relatively low per-hectare investment costs. This component is not
rendered unprofitable by significant changes in costs and benefits: incremental
yields would need to be 37% lower than those estimated and incremental on-farm
costs 59% higher for the ERR to fall to 12%.
I It is estimated that "with the project" about 267,300 ha (about 79% of the
total) would be supplied irrigation water partly by pumping, as against the
present area of 122,700 ha. Average pumping costs, along with on-farm works
carried out by farmers in these areas, are estimated in economic terms at
Y128.8/ha.



51 -
6.20      Dates and Fast Growing Trees:  Economic analyses have been carried
out for small and large date subcomponents separately (due to the different
costs and prices of the outputs), for the total date subcomponent and for the
fast growing tree subcomponent. Costs, including development and operating
costs inclusive of family labor, were converted to economic costs using the
concepts described above. The farmgate economic prices of dates were based on
prices received by the FTC adjusted for transportation and handling costs. The
farmgate price for wood was derived from the 1987 Shandong market price of
poplar adjusted for transportation and handling costs. It is assumed that date
trees have a production life of 25 years and that fast-growing trees would be
harvested in PY10. Under the above assumptions, small dates have an ERR of
23%, large dates an ERR of 30% and the total date subcomponent an ERR of 27%.
The fast growing tree subcomponent has an ERR of 42%. The date and tree
subcomponents are not very sensitive to changes in benefits or costs: benefits
have to fall by 67% and costs have to rise by 192% before the date subcomponent
would have ERR equal to 12%. Benefits would have to fall by 92% and costs
(which are inherently low) to rise by 1210% before the tree subcomponent would
have ERR of 12%.
6.21      Livestock:  Economic analyses have been carried out for the principal
livestock subcomponents (rabbits, poultry, pigs, cattle and sheep), as well as
for the component as a whole. The values of by-products were taken into
consideration when computing economic farmgate prices. The latter were based
on average export prices for the different categories of fresh or frozen meat
and the average import price of greasy wool, adjusted for domestic transport
and handling costs. The costs related to the setting up of county and township
breeding farms, the establishment of pastures and grasslands and the upgrading
of technical and veterinary support services were included in the analysis.
Based on these assumptions, the ERRs have been estimated: 26% for the rabbit
subcomponent (both rabbit meat and hair); 45% for the poultry subcomponent
(chicken and geese); 46% for the pig subcomponent and 52% for the cattle and
sheep subcomponent. The ERR for the whole livestock subcomponent is estimated
at 35%. Sensitivity ana]ysis carried out shows that total incremental benefits
would need to be 21% lower, or total incremental on-farm costs would need to be
26% higher, for the total component ERR to fall to 12%.
6.22      Mariculttre.  Separate economic rates of return have been estimated
for the shrimp and specialty seafood sub-components and for the component as a
whole. All investment costs related to establishing the shrimp ponds
(including the sea dike and pumping substations), the abalone, scallop and sea
cucumber growing areas, and all costs for management and technical support have
been included in the analysis. The economic farmgate price for shrimp was
derived on the basis of actual export prices received in 1987 and 1988 (para
5.29); for the other products, economic prices are derived from actual
financial prices. The shrimp feed economic price was estimated on the basis of
the economic prices of the component elements and estimated milling and other
costs. On this basis, an ERR of 22% has been estimated for the shrimp
component, and an ERR of 28% for the specialty seafoods component. The total
mariculture component's ERR is estimated at 24%. Sensitivity analyses carried
out show that the shrimp benefits would need to fall by 25% and costs would
need to increase by 34% for the total component ERR to fall to 12%.
6.23      Total Project:  Based on the above analyses, a total project economic
rate of return of 29% and a net present value of Yl.l billion (at a 12%
discount rate) have been estimated.



- 52 -
F. Risksf
6.24      The project faces no major organizational and technical risks.  The
risks that exist are either small initially or have been effectively minimized.
The risk of inadequate management capability in project entities is minimized
because management is essentially in place, appears adequate and would be
strengthened under the project. The project manager will also have available
the successful project management techniques developed in the North China Plain
Agriculture Project. Technical risks are minimized because the irrigated crop,
tree crop, improved pasture, livestock and mariculture programs would apply
production methods that have been locally tried and tested in existing
commercial operations or validated in project area pilot studies carried out by
local research centers and institutes. The risk of inadequate water supply is
minimized because the Province has obtained firm agreement from the Yellow
River Commission that sufficient water from the Yellow River would be provided
during the period of peak demand from March to June so that project water
requirements during this period would be met. The risk of excessive soil
salinity and waterlogging would be minimized by drawing on the land development
experience gained under the North China Plain Agriculture Project (para 1.14).
Only a small export market risk (for rabbit hair and shrimp) exits and is
minimized by the fact that most output of the two commodities would be consumed
locally. No adverse environmental impact is expected from the project. Waste
disposal from processing plarnts would abide by standards established and
approved by local environmental agencies, and effluent monitoring would be
built into the project.



- 53 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1    At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Shandong Provincial
Gcvernment that:
(a)   the Province would procure the required quantities of chemical
fertilizers (local and imported) for farmers and an annual plan for
such provision would be submitted to IDA for review prior to November 1
(para. 3.15);
(b)   the training programs would be carried out in accordance with the
agreed schedules (para. 3.29);
(c)   the provincial P1O would submit the consolidated project accounts for
auditing annually by the State Audit Agency and the audited accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
financial year (para. 3.45);
(d)   the Province would ensure that the project activities would conform to
appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued by the Shandong
Provincial Government and acceptable to IDA (para. 3.46);
(e)   agro-processing facilities would be operated as financially independent
entities, and managed by competent staff with ex.perience and expertise
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.10);
(f)   project funds onlent to enterprises and farmers would be onlent at
interest rates no less than ABC charges on subloans for similar
purposes and with similar maturities and such rates would be reviewed
from time to time with IDA ir. light of the cost of funds to PREDIC and
its financial viability, and the changes in ABC interest rates (paras.
4.11 and 4.14);
(g)   PMO would submit a detailed annual budget and work program for new
construction and operation and maintenance of existing facilities to
IDA for review by November 1 of each year (para. 4.16); and
(h)   adequate irrigation water charges would be collected to meet at least
the full annual O&M costs and 20% of the total capital construction
costs of the irrigation works borne by the Province (para. 6.9).
7.2       Understandings were reached with the Provincial Government at
negotiations specifying the terms of loans between the various lenders and
borrowers (para. 4.141 and confirming that investments financed under the
project should have a financial rate of return of at least 12% (para. 4.11).
7.3       State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
7.4       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 82.5 million (US$109
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity to the
People's Republic of China.



aim
WINSI  A111111CULTIS*L KWLWUT     cECT
1a'le Prviecl MAd Project Area  t
__________________ __________________ __________________  ----_ ------------__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
: < --             -Project COoe  -             -----) : l of
Itesilosript1e1            unlt    :  Shoedg   :    Tubal           Abrie"It"r.:  vI Haa        : Tot      a % : Province
Provincee-    Agro. COW. :Compsea.t   :Livweetsc  Comp:
Ttsl geed area                aim be             16.07  :         1.46 :       0.62            1.49 :.6                  t2
Total stable lad            :  al  be   :         7.32            0H  :        0.   :          0.27 :         3.7 :4
T*otl cltivted lSeew           al. he            G."   :         0.76 :        0.3             0.4?           1.4 :       20
Irrigsted *r-              : al he               4.5   :         0.52:         0.06:           0.26:          0.0:        20:
Forest                          go                8 :  I.7s  :    0.00:            0:          0.06:          0.1:          4:
Greenland                   : ai be               8.46  :         0.25:            0:          0.46:   ,   0.1:            20:
Pepulatieoe::                           :               :
Total                         w in    :       77.7   :         5.91 :        1.66 :          6.7  :        34.2          Is
Agricltteral             :      lm    :       67.0   :          5.61 :       1.4  :          0.26:         38.2 :        13:
fore laborers             :   elm    :         28.54  :         2.26:        0.4  :             A.1 :       S.3 :2 :
Fami Ies                    :   al      :        Is.7   :         1.31 :       0.6 :            11.1  :       3.8 :        20 :
Townships                  :    me.    :          2463  :          222 :         60  :          3t6  :      490.0 :        n
Administrative *illage   :       m.    :3                         OM625         204:            7760 :       2.0: 
Cropped areas:              :           :               :              :
_eet                     :000 ha    :           4030  :          447 :         10 :         246.5 :       M.11           2:
Core                         'om h               248             M22:        61.0:             In 1: 13.0:               2s:
cott.                        '066. b            3170             244:         26.4:          5.46:        nr7.6:         24:
elI crep                  :  '000 ha  :         10  :           12.6 :       28.5 :             a6 :      113.13 t           :               *s
Vegatable/owloaa         :  'COke:             346.8            20.7:          7.:               4:         3.5:         2:
total OVAS:                 :           :         0706   :                     14 : 1464.4 :                M: 387.* :      0
Crope                       US.  *1m  :        0670  :           783:        103.6:           538:       334Y.6:         20:
Forest                    : U58 sU   :            41  :           27 :        2.01 :            42 :       73.0 :        23
Livesteck                 : US$ si   :          36  :             of :        28.6 :1   :                 326.2 :        104:
Flwher-i                  :5U2  Ir:              4C 6:            .0 :          t24              4:        12.6:          6:
Aver^w ag      oImeoss/forme  : U58/yar  :         121  :          107 :         III :           *0  :           - :        -1
Prodactlee:                 :           :               :              :
Oaria                     :mImte.    :         88.94  :         2.61:         0.0:           2.47:          6.6:         17:
Cotta                    :  , toe   :           1.24  :        0.22 :        0.02:           0.01:          0.8 :        20:
Oi crepS u satoe   :                            2.84  :        0.04 :        0.06:           0.06:          0.2 :         7:
as t                       slt" es    :         1.27  :        0.06 :        0.02:           0.96:          0.3 :        20:
FruiLt                   :  " no toa  :         2.48  :         0.11 :       0.06:           0.36:          0.4          3 6:
Aqotic prodet            : wn to    :            3.1  :         0.06 :       0.06:           0.01 :         0.1          I 38
L vwestock po et            :           :               :              :             : o                                      :
Large aelela             : 0lr bda.  :           5.4  :          0.4 :       0.l5 :           0.2 :         0.0          34
Shoap/gaot               : m. bda.  :           14.0  :          3.0 :       0.35 :            1.3 *        28           a 0 :
pis                        Elebda   :           315.   :         0.3:        0.1:             2.3 :           .6        I37:
poultry                   :w1i birds:          131.2  :          6.4:         2.55:           16. :        24.6          36: to
Rabbit                        s ona    :        17.6  :          0.4:        0.2:              4.2:          4.S:        2  :
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__----------------------_------.-----------
Project Compeest:                   Co.tlee/letr I eta
Tubei Agricultere:   S3hoiees. TVaga, Damp. (kipl, G             -oto", JiYag
Si_, *19, 1-1*,e Tow1", Wadi. Ik_k.
Coastal  arvicaltore:              ""ties Hl  te,  _ , w .
VI Ha"  Livestock:    Tagal, Let", VIa"l, Viywma, Timem, _aagi. Felule_. PIymI.
%0: Adjusted to avoid daubS. cestiag of duplicetigs ce1ties.



O4D4A
SIWOONG AIRICLTtRAL DEVEOPEIMENT PROJECT
Climtic Data
Item/Location         Jon      Feb     MIr       Apr      May      Jun      Jul       Aug      Sop      Oct      NWv      Dec
RAINFALL (_)                                                                                                                       Total
Tubea (Liaochong)      4.3      7.7    10.1    36.3    30.1    71.1   171.6   139.3            U.5      33.2     17.4      6.1    UO.5
Coastl (WUifang)       5.3      9.1     10.1    36.9    32.8    47.3   193.2   139.4    59.4    32.9    19.3               7.9   51.1
Y;i_ng (Pingy;)        9.1     12.6     20.9    50.9    41.3   100.3   261.8    156.0    92.6    34.1    22.4    12.2   906.1
EVAPORATION (ma)                                                                                                                   Total
Tuhal (Liaochong)     53.4    75.1   158.7   251.3   326.4   354.6   239.9   179.3   164.6   13.9    90.9    52.4  2075.4
Coastal (Welfang)     59.9    74.7   149.5   237.8   50.4   243.7   207.6   150.4   160.7   151.1    90.6                  5.5   1913.9
Yi_mmg (Pingyl)       53.7    72.3   151.1   219.5   237.0   293.0   202.5   191.3   160.4   133.9    95.9                53.5  1909.1          V
_ __.                                                                                  _ ___   _   _   ___ _ __  _ __ ___________________________________________________ _ __ _ __________ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TENFERATUE (deg. C)                                                                                                               A
Tubal (Liacheng)     -3.4    -0.9       6.0     13.6    20.4    25.2    26.6         25.5    20.3    14.0        6.0    -1.0      12.7
Coastl (Usifang)      -3.4     -1.6      4.5     11.7    1U.4      23.0    25.6       25.1    20.3    14.3        6.4     -0.6     12.0
Yi_e (Pingyi)         -2.5    -0.2       6.3    13.4    19.6        24.2    26.0    25.4    20.3    14.4          6.3    -0.1      12.9
SUISHIIE (Hour.)                                                                                                                   Total
Tubal (Lisoch.ng)    102.6   17C.9   220.1   229.4   233.4    277.9   232.3   234.7   227.6   223.4   169.-   190.7  2SM0.
Coastl (WUifang)    133.2   139.3   199.6   240.1   291.1   279.4   234.4   233.3   240.3   228.3    19.6   177.5  236.8
viYa   (Piingy9)     13.5   176.5   216.1   216.7   260.9   254.3   205.1   223.9   210.4   213.3   1U3.6   173.1  2524.4
Source: Shandong Provincial Planniag Comi#sion
1II



.1 '~I  *aga1pssm.      .2Aq PS3,1*mSjVWe i.u *  J        mln.s.  Maab melejmp  das m  e" Samr-Pipm -i  -
£                   I sa          a" pug           "        * A"   *w                   s a 
:"am m
|~~~~41              t     de     "       le     It    O"s   0"s0"  Pt  *          IoNol
Sete-je-Ago4
s      w gn en     OR  _a           as   en     oum   am      mn      ast  Gott  Gott  osts   Wm
no se  soni    at   moca      u   suft  an       ss o  an    an  _ s    as          */au     air 1i
Ua     Ism   sel   "to  sate  also  to"a  sa w          20 sa  mu   met   mu   east  cos    O
one   suta  seeg   Ms   mea    mu   aSW    m           m       "a    us.   Its      s/am    Maw isi
ts.    tts  aet  la"   WM   sum    SS   alto  WaT  sag  aas    ts   toot  aut   re
ma.      ~mu   sass  wee   #0w   suet   wit  met  Gigt  m                seeu  suit  11113    a/1    ma -
4191141  *~    an    am    WOO   Os"         am    * a    owl  Gin   adl   a06    ant  411q   11011
(ni   nu       UPU w g m          IsW    O m     "     Its      *    oil *gv U
wt-           me  _"        ve  ns              our 3s on _IVion    "                     owu"s wu  "  o
("-MI)  _ wPN     ZEl- IO  MOI JON011-1  _=



SHANDONG AGICULTURAL UEVELOPSNT POJWT
TUAN&  IRIGCATION C_90U3IT
Ple- for Irrigation Water Use from 1.1llm River Olversion an Shandon  Prov1p-'   -  190
Prefecture        A: flow eat  (0Ns          Feb.              erchb                2"1at                 2     1      Jam                       * _
D: Quantity  IU14                    1        2       1                                                                 _____ T__
IIake:                 A                      O        11t5   I15   t05      93    93   127      104   6s    53         23             _          _           _
a                    Its       t1o   too   to0       so    so   to         go    S0    so        20            m" *7               1.57
l-eocheng: 1          A                     95        t27   127   137    127   139        -      SO   (t1   IO          --
a                    too        t10   1(0   130    1(0   120        -      SO   t00   100         -           930        37        (.306
Oeho   ItI             A                    too00      ISO   150   147    150   150   162         (62   104    95       93                   -                -
a                    150        1 (3   30   140    130   130   140        140   140    90         01.3               0             194.6
Naimin: 1t             A                     30         35    69   105       93   104   127       104    93    74      6G              -          -           -
a                     30         30    60    t0      so    to    i         9       o    70       60           A"         350       (( 56
Dongyong               A                     15         12    12    32       12    35    35       23    23    It        23             -          -           -
e                     to        to    0o   30        20    30    30        20    20    10        20           230        370         G00
Deyusbang              A                      -          -    23    53       5S     -    69       5t    23       -       -             -          -           -
e                      -          -    20    50      50      -    60       50    20      -        -           230        a"          S46
Jinan,                 A                      6         12    (2      -   - 12    12    12         23    23    21       23             -                      -
B                     10         10    t0      -     (0    (0    t0        20    20    20        20           (40        l"          3m5
Tot-l            A                    326        451   502   579    556   533   532         512   451   359       231             -          -           -
-_______________ e                    410        390   440   550    480   460   460         460   390   340       200         4.6       2.6 am0      7.406
Sourc.  Pro%ancial Bureau of kat.r Conservency.
V Project *irefecureb.
'NJ!



-_' - U?
1 fotul                                        3 WAt
I r.a,.   kw                                   I Fe'i  ham
tifl   fgwq*g,          FI     m         t,    Luel   Eb t,d 1X       1 fo ul
1. 3331305II tl5t
4. tJd frusgatag.                          39,993.7         -             . . ... -      * ..0     .    .       t....           -       4
A. tCwl  Ie4,                                                                                   1
3. (r3h...
Maricalturo                         1164,979.3  014.11  3112.7.9          3       14  2JQI1.,  123532.  41.-04.l         3       13
I3r,atau  am Iraiws                  92,3.7  3,33.2  313,213.0            25      13  24.9113   632.6  t3.20.l           21     I1
b-3stal frthsa*                        199.3311.4  74631.0  215911.          3           53.73.3  3.4Jo6  74M391 R                  3
n.   5tvwt.                             43.33.3  37ol0.1   111911           5       It  NOMA4.4  9,992.6   MO.6.4          I       It
J. so*4                                  4.439   M.NA         lw..           4        1    11213.53.   1 65.6   206.&        t       I
4. h,I4.glAR9t Civl. bets               6t6,13.4  45,142.0  114.3..           1      32 It .43.?  32#3195  3413.1           4       It
WII" Civ.I bts                            341,416.1  42S.43.4  534019.4         t1    54  MM.6.3036.3 315.1                    32      54
C. Pm, fols                                13166.?  4,434.0      4319.4          t       1     5I.MA   1429.2  I'M.$           I1       I
I. PItuo,bIt.amis Iseto.
lbstials to                              4,715.  1 0S613        1 4.44       40       2     40.  2l15.3*455.5               4        2
1,6.9 -          - - - -            - --          - -  - ----- - -.--- ----                  I                                OD
5a-Ial P-t  tgr,.l4,fsts (stet.            14111.1  30.073.?    MMI..4          41       3   31115.9   2M.1    4.311.?         a        3                                 1
E. Smdsu SImi Ob                            5,343.5  3'.46.3  131,63.4          is       2   1.43.3   3l.   0.16114.1          4t       I
F. Iesma      ad Valeun
1. rw.u,ssa.  [..i..t                  13343.7  33943.9   49243.5            M       I         1    4-71.6  3931.1    464.0 
2. Othm  Ews.uat ad lac-sow             14114..4 14,T9.5   7t,53.S           a       0    365n.7  Mm.? 39Olaf               3 
1.  hatlnes ad hts                       234..  135.9770      111213.        a       2      7t 6.4  4916.5  5411.6          a        2
Sb-lotd ( nstrewt _ ,ic3n                  31.913.31 121,3.?2   19.23464        5       31   6.l35.3  34,53.   42915.5         M       1I
*. Fetal                                    2.135.5  41352.5   43.170           9       S      539.  113331.6 1-.30.7          I5       5
11 lr.aaangflulmme.3  lsastar               2.342.5  4,165.6    46161.3                   1   56.11   3.9 1 .4 3. I33         is       I
I- Cruet  to haumId,                       l3.353.4    9.4    30,44.2          39       2   13.566       114.)  4433.5         2        I
J. b*u Capital                             9Z1139.4  5,31.3  1623115.4          s      It  2@4,31    3146.?  27.19S             s      13
t. Prart  naumst It k.4273.   1011.35   30,415.0                                f       I 3        2Its3.3  MJ    143.5         0       1
Iasi  13I  CUTS                               19,341.9 5  37744.2  9n. t.2         41      M   313         1.6 33 .. 2M1eb?.?      41 n    1 1                          I
Pf iral Cntlearm "                          11.4510.2   34143.6    211.1         37      3   4.9D.6  2911.1  17.91.6            3        I
Pre., Ct  i-memas                           4.4-.1.2  .O7416   315,442.0         3      II 6163.4         6.9  1331111.3        JD       5 
I3t3. 96613 CUT                               641£3161` 432151111.9 3,41.23M.1     3      114  341453.4 33.119 212.131.           4f    14
S  WINDS 2011t clmiu  mtel ad  Irtalsw r ots
lb l3m*e .s6, ted specialt, fedaood component
/Ir Irrl we gut o d a_ris m,evnsim
…--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



£31.
Smen r cua t   k PgtiCet tw_t
(TeM '300
Contal ka- kw.
Tdmsi Rivet onir he.                    -----       t         i t       . AM  h.                                   fiaNl
-____ --___ -_                          _ -----------------------------Specialty  - -------- -----                            CtAdmoms
lnriOti      krirutiUr    tiLvastec                  3wie    hutMi   Latact                        letiut l-
ad beifas   ad faemtwv P9 ortios  Mrs-Procsind Pnaftin  Psobitim  Pr,dWtim  U,e-9MsliS                    hu.dit    ota        I
1.  1S1TElE  WstS
A. Ltd kmisitian                            24.041.?        00.0    2.003.0         3,130.0       M.0                3,9.1          s5s5.0              _    P109.? J 0.0       0.0
D. Civil  Is
1. Eartrls
s4riculc.re                                               -          -              -  151,225.9    1.5000.-                         -                  355.9  5.0 71U.03
I,rnOtiI. Mi Irfiua                  123.213.0            -         -               -          -                     -               -             -              5in.    S.0 6i30.6
s9-lotal (artlmt,s                      123.213.0           -          -               -  151255.9   3150.0                             -             -   20.5101   5.0 13,.4
2. sttu                                  7,1".              -          -               -   29VU6.5           -          -               -             -    M59L35.l  5.0 5#29l
3. lok                                      06.2            --                              11.5             -                       -1M.--  -        -     1W.?  5.          .5
4. hldi,n0s133b  Civil brls              5956.0       3,31.0   2N51.6          13,992.0   457,15.1    1,401.7   1191%.1         21501.0             -   11411t.0  5.0 5s,117.
sb-TOtal Civil bits                           -.2n.1      3,371.0    2,50.0        D,102.10  233,19.5    2,M.    11,390.1           2136.0              -     S .   5.0 2&M1.5
C. Psee, 9Swie-                                                -          -               - -    0,0.0          -          -              -             -       .411.1 1. 3.0
*. Postursbttforests [stab.
lIterials /a                                    -     1519.5        M.                 -          -          -          -               -             -    36..    .           .0
Labseit   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ------ -------   --------- -    -----                                              --------    -  -    -             --.19    .               .
fe-Total Pastuye-atn,Frots Estab.                 -      23,01.4        0.0                    -          -          -                    -             -    24..   0.0         0.0
E. 3l,di,s Str i                                  -            -    2,450.0               -          -   1291.0    2.411                   -            -    1.h11.    . SJ    H1.3
F.  nuepsnt NW  hewln
1. *hrrwresnosza  (uent                        -            -          -        12,13".0   14,93.5           -          -        421.0               -    H23.5  0.0         0.0
2. SIklUmEiapot  .d adh,min              11,532.0        455.0    1,075.0              -    3,524.2   44,04.0    3.651.3            S3            414.3    71.151J  1.  2212.5
3. bhhlus SWd SeAs                          525.0           -       2M.0         I3,U.0   11,050.0    2,0.0          3.0           2,M.0              -     0.0       .0     0.0
Sub-Total E(ioswet ad Vcnles                12,357.0       455.0    M,.0           33150.0   34507.1   471,00.0   3M950.3           44.54.0          494.3   3321.4  1.4 2W212.5
6. Fertilizrns                                    -      43,130.0                                                                                        -    43.0    0.0       0.0
4. Trainsin/ltlmical IosstiU                  5J0.0        452.0      I3.0            U5J.       *2.3        t7J.        9.           I2            2.35.1       6013  5.0 3S0.4
1. Credit to heolds                               -            -    2,46.0               -           -          -   12.6.2           14iS.0             -    1440.2  0.0        0.0
J.  targ Capitul                                  -        5W2.0     m2.           10o00.0   62oM.0    5092.0    1,11.4             2240.0              -   3M2.335  0.0        0.0
1. PrtjA_t knt   "C                          4244.0          6.0      32.0          1.135.    2922.0         91.0      M9.2          1.5.6           WU.       0 104750    0   5A3.I
Total IIIEShT  t3STS                          247,443.3    71,521.4   12M494.1        474.0  340,30.1   60653.7   36h5U1.             1063.0         3145.1   911_.2  3.2 29.11.0
total &M0 INE  t SIS                          247,443.3    713,521.4   1244.1          471742.0  340,319.1   06,653.7   3h5t7.1        101.03.0       3465.1   931100.2  3.2 2.OPM
Ftnical C.taimerin                           10552. 2       I9f 2      2.5 5.0353    12.16.1    3.017.2                 740. 7        I,310           I3  1    299136    0.0     0.0
PrisCe ,wanoocies                            31,114.5     9,774.3       3.3          51.    34,163.9    1,012.3    1.0113             i".,            30.1 35 ..0  3.1 3 .202. 
Total MJECT COtSS                             297,110.0     S3b490,3  13300.4          530.53 31   7 401.1  710743.7   39.120.a       139,W.J         4rw.4    .4701n       3. 11  2m.3             1
Eeroj~ (,g*e E05,23. 74                                   0595.0    5,5.            2234.2  312509.1 J      ,52..7 33,3 9.0          51.4. 5        2 07.5   4A  m.9   2. 12720 1                a 
/a  3gt3s lude plu       stijm    tall ad "tilia 
lb  lmlsR Sedlaie tof opecialtv seafood comonenc
Itr l vcleada thr cost of emaneot   swvisioe



ow.
9"_ MICIL K  M            M      MT
Psimt Cupmuts b  Tyear
Totals Iiwludii  Cuatinamius                         Ttal  1ui31 CmtiUme i
(Tur '03)}                                           (4  IN)
1m      19"      I        1M       Im 9     otal       19    190        19M     32    9S9   TOl
A. Tubi River  asin bv.
1. Irriiation an  raira         SW3I3M3  3273.1 *3,50.3 56,719.3 26,793.0  297110.0 14,10.6 21,165*1 20M5.3 12J"s.  .3.0  A4,6.3
2. Agriculture mnd Forntrv       9160.2 36,45.1  33,329.3 29175.4 29369.3   33.N4.6  2v423.3  933.0  3241.4   53.7  51.3  21.4W6
3. Livestowk Prodution           7,46.3  5641.6    26.1          -       -   13,60.4  2r026.2  1439.2   74.0          -       -  3,541.4
4. firo-Proetsir                12,121.5 3,332.5  1297636   105.?        -   531,53.1  3266.1  7435.2 3,173.4    25.5        - 1376.2
Sd-otal Tuhai River asin bv.       82,253.? 153,662.2 1299.0 52.99. 2M12.3  44,0.3 21.760.3  3919.5 32.253.6 12632.9 6.69.2 11294.5
3. Coastal ArI bv.
1. Shriw Prodution             112256.? 33916.1  9094.5   279.6          -   W7.1.1  29t 97.6 46917.4 22,5.9   67.7          - "92o.S
L U , _aiti 1h4  ftinmtS.       23M   39.6)6.7 15,511.2          -       -   76,43.7  6916.4  10,172.6 3446.5         -       -  M2.5
S*-Tgl  Costal Area bv.           135622.6 223792.3 106.4491   279.6        -  4144.1  5,679.0 579.0 26,414.3          7.7      - 119451.6
C. Ti NEM llt. Ai bV.
1. Liwstock Promwtion           319924.3  69Wf7.7  1,073.3    25.1    16.0   39126.4  4645.6  153.0   266.3         6.1    3.S 1b274.7
2. Aro-Promusing                68.45.3 31,201.4  7,671.6  ItQ2.7   %7.5  109W.7   161*.6  7,9.5 1,9.1   21W.0  225.7  3M5.0
S-Total Yi 11i ft. Area kV.       100"69.6 37921N.2  0.944.2 1127.7   963.S   MU014.3  21,412.2  9512.5 2.219.4   V7L   232.5 3.19.
I. Institutional suport            I1,50.5  I175.7  1.171.7   63.8    76.1    4613.7    44.9    29.   2.7    15s.t   16.   1.03.
_ _  __ __ _         __                   __         -_  ___           -      -       -                         >g
Total PUECT COISTS                  326,076.6 415,919.9 246,547.7 54,473.0 3 *215.? 1,067F233.1  346766.4 1616,12.0 6317.1 13136 7.14.2 27239o.3     I 
mmunuuu          m         r                    __iu __ _                    _.
Iw



- 61-                                               Anux2
@0S ~ ~ ~ ~ E
urns.. ~~  s        ~              ~             Ta#e7.
bO td cam"Of1r639~h
94in409w Value :664016w U.PtI.. Vulm.  Af.atllt   U.Prl..  Volvo  ,beolt,t  U.ci           au
.   .. .. .. .. .. .. ....  ---------00     .        .. . .*-- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - --             -------     . . . . ... .. .. . .. .. .
SI 6.1          246:          I   7606.0    760.0         I.    0.60        0.0:0              0.00        .
0  0.00      00
cms94le         ~~~~~~~~: ue      7.1410  I 06 :          4 23 10    6n.6    0              0 .6"     0.0         .0     0.60       0.0
6mumm~~~~mede       h~I   e       37.4      0.3:t      4.0      03111      1.1         S      6.00     150I          0     0.00       0.0
G&W. I so gu0fb             .1Stn      SM aIm      v.a       m1       g.m    11601:         0.      1.60    7601 &         0     0.00       0.
66mg. Imrtbuack.            10601~ ~~~~~~~ 1.19:    6      1.a      661P :  10.          S.ol73                6      1.0      &7.0
~~~0w~~~~wha                  11~~~~~~~7.  0.a      8.117    1.      at86                 00          .:00
0.0     0.40
10.0     0.30          1    a00        600           -   60.00      73.6          2     00       101
bldg..                 60.0     307           6   2~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~ ~~~~~         ~~40.00   11100  0  0.00  00 10    01.00    610.
bm4a=     ,.ieftlenm                      0.0     3.60.0                                                     10.0 :                      1600.
gA-I.tt                                   16 sm,                      SM. I                         137.1                         376.1
Oki. Camel
b,OhIl66fW'~~~in.Sb  .1000 ~ 107114.11,  19  1      694 g    1.67   diM.0       231    10          31 O.6     sm        184 S
Whiale.                                 910.01    8.04        46    11.70  1&01.6 :                7.40      W44         17    3.80    s1m.6
Coatwolo                      2~~~1.0  2.00         121      s 1   LS80 111I 1    11s0            11.91               1.0 is to  7B.4:
Plu.../u.,hm                  60~~~~~~~ ~ ~~.0  4.1 6    11 0190,   4140 0               @.00      0.0         Is1   3.00    1116.4
16-.   12.46          169    14.60   11.1           1.2   19190    so.A4         &11    17.00   21118.1
spill                        ~~~~0.0   0.00                          0.0                           0.0                           0.0
Puwpin. StAt&am.                        17.60     :15          S   l8ow.00   4110.0                0.00      0.0 :             100.00    100.0
Acvea,'reads,                            66.      001        US.      0.60,    14.1                 0.00      0.0:                          0.0:
kuesh Caime I
*uea.ahle./lce.m0    *~~~1000    2030.9I   13 09     sm66      1.0 so   074.15    5"         I.111   766a        1"66      1.10   7161,6
of OhAhe.n                             460.0     41.9        163    12.80   102.1          44      600    606           194     6. 70   1667.6:
Ce..hcleI                   1m.0                 0 80                           0,0          1    11.80     111.1        10    11.40    114.0
Illwoms,          Am .        11.0     a064          1    6680    1866            8    3 40       702a          5    15.90      691.5:
iSet#  ./qv.*r%6 In                      511.0     6.09         94    17.80   140440         27    11 40    W07 a         S17    11.130   4618. 4
Sp11  ueI                                0.0     0,00                           0.0                          0.0 :0.0
Pumfe .iAt 0001             Pe.0                 0864                           0.0                          0.0 :             110.00    860.0
A.ain qa.sd.jC.ng.  Al"l   h.        60      0 11          0     0.00       0.0         0      0.00      0.0 :0.0
I                       ~~~~~~27:06                  66161419.41461.
Mi~.r okse  iq.....         .1000      5667.0     S. 73                          0.0        U?      1. 96    169        mm67      1.16   61I.32
eg; d.g.e..         ce                 4416.0     6.416         0     0.00       0.0          0     0.00      0.0          0      0.00      0.0
Iramab druic.                          4741.0     5.06          0     0.00       0.0         a      0.00        a          0      0.00      0.0
bldg  I,.~~~~~~~~~t. ~~57 0            L. 72         0                0.0                          0.-0        M     41.20   1138.4
C.hAM  .                                 6.0     0.3:          0                0.0         S      9.1 so     6.0:        5    6940    206.2:
Simlw./fI.m.                As.          3.0    11.0                            0.0 0.0                                   5      7 so     2213
S" -toe.eI                                21.8                           0.0                         O.7                         9770. 6
L.ater..                    .1000    16300.0    11.75        116      0.90   1701.0       171       0.90   1144 4       SW9       1.10   gm.08
sub-Ighn..t.                cv.        13.0       5.9        11 lw    0.70    79. 0       1I1       0. 70   1075, 1        0     0.00       0.0
strueov                      GM~606. 0    17689    8104      1 9 0   5097.6      170      1 10   gm11 7        770      3.44   26466
Tubegel                      3~~~44,0.   6 U.      800      2.00   SW0000     0           I-111   on 6160
lub-tetel                                 44,83                      146.                           111.                         11807.1
Io = hme.1000    16100.,0    30.75                                    0.00)      0.0                0.00      00    0            0.00       0.0
LI-Ing                     10060          00        0                            0 .0                                                       .0
10.uetee..                               140.0    7O.1Os              0.00       0.0                0100      00    0            0.00       0~0
6.A-teemI                      27~~~~~~~~~~~.9 ol00 0.                                                                     .
Swi W.9m,           ad         A  260.0   5.5      11000      0.21   1110.0       1000     0.20    200 0       200       0.20    400.0
Acquisi%lon        he        1091 0    I6.3?        440        15   S6M  0 :       42       1s   0o0.0         176        15   2640.0
Casq.n.ovel10  I.. ere.*                147 0     7n 60673. 7                               id?        9   183.0                         1016.0
sob-total             h         1236 0    24 04        440            9973 7        169             194.0         176             865.0
he,d,mjIie *Sge-stoe          .          5.0      1.26         1   210.00    210.0           0     0.00       0.0         2   210.00    800.0
Or    I:f                                 20       100D         0     0 -00      0.0          0     0,00       0 0          1   500.00    "D000
su                           1.    ~~~~~~0 25             0.00      0.0    0           0.00       0.0                0 00      0.0
Trucks \.                     m           0 0      0.00         0    50.00       0.0          0    50.00       0.0         0      0.00      0.0
PuI 6,ugho                   m9e          4.0     0 Ss          2    75 00    150.0           I   300 00    100.0          1    75.00      75.0
Utility .0h;0*6 \b           me,          0.0     0.00          0   150r00       0 0          0   110.00      0.O0         0   150.00       0.0:
Sob - t0h1                                 3500                         4000                         300.0                        1075.0
Office/Lsaetoa00i Eeui*
PC *wicocmouptss             me           9~0     0 45          I    10.00      10.0          1    30.00     50.0          I    50.00      50 0
communBicaio  *quip.          *U.                  0 70                         so0 0so 0                                                  So 0
Se1ol/wet.r toetio .,m       ..iv  .              0 75                          so0                           Do5  0                       80 0
Misc. l...g.mv.              c0 75                                              So500                         50 0                         50.0
(W  ico/trvimi.g *q          sv                   0 30                           0 0                           0.0                          0.0
Sub-total                                  3.15                         200 0                        200 0                         200 0
Tech. Asetb. A T..:m.mg        W.e                  1 52                          0 0                           0.0                          0.0
Eml. A l'.megse..t \c         ae4 24                                            719 6                         154 1                            a)2
T.1.1 to"e Coots                             240 6                        1027                         13077. 7                      5034n 2
\bt7 umita (ome VA;% fo, osch             * ram cAO 2 ..ia* f@, Tchel O9,.)  il11 be purchaseid .140 aap*rote 4.amoti. Iced.
\C  aClculeted *h 1.96 of construction weeks for **40 Irigaion Gros..
wed 0.91 of the total conet,vetio., works for Tuh; ea1.dquar%ors,



Annex 2
- 62                            -TFeT2
bSin24 Ca.9e 4, Irrgation Work
It..    IhIt                        bs.l.~~~~~~~O"  I I                  dws                                tG   "are.
*~.ettw   119;.. Vaoe      bat             .. lvoe                  beatity   U Prig    Valve
:cwwerence Oloonvia             .10001                       ---                                                                      --0)  :--- (VI000)-
blsglaejOaeiIt ~~      afv..                                                     *                                       0  -      0       0
Ose... I  e.0                 10001                   700    15.00  10500.0             44    U.1100   4564 00                             0      00
St'"V'tv,                   ,                                                                                                    0         00     00
Plum  ~   ~      ~      s.0.0                                                     1713600    7120                       0         0      0
Controls    fte                                       0~~~~~~.0        a     11111.0   0.'e                   0                H0
"W 1 dw                 "S'a                    4    75 00    200.0:                    760w    W160                     0         0      00:
Ame.a,eede    he                                      ~~~~      ~     ~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~0.0:  0  26.00    6600      0         0      0.0:
*  5.b-tet.l                                         1066~~~~~~~~~~~~~aw00              640                                       0.0:
:StegIelwtba.b                  .60                  56        1 or   4760               418      202    6a4.                     0         0      00
:6todp l   artimmuh             auia.                                     0.0                               00'                   0         0      00
:5iaam%w.                    .                                             .:0.:                                        0                   0      0.0
COZZIle                        a.,                     4    26.00    104.0:              0      0.m       0.0                   0         0      0 0
* 614a.atlgao 80te              as.                                      0.0 :0.0                                                0         0       0.0
or; 4                          me                      7   150.00   10o0.0               8    56 00    1660                     0         0      0.0:
SOW     rqw~(41.         VMU                                   3000                              7000                    0         0      00:
b-t.tel                                     6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~142.0              1low.4                                     0.0
MA. C4me1
ba.atlam~~~lasveinut  .10~~~~           660      2.1111  1860.4          a04       1. 97   6604.                    0        0       0.0
@4424b.                       at.                      3    1600       40                6   159 00   1194.0                    0         0      0.0
C.at.wla                   :t                          0     0 00       0.0              5   161.00      M0                     0         0      00:
Fiv.ao/apr    .00a                                                                       6   6O.000   40000                     0         0      0 0
6.'ed a/avl..te                a                      29    31 00    6950               48    60.00   26600                     0         0      0.0
to I I T"oft@                                                   000.0                                                   0         0      0.0
Pvimp.6 atAtlea               i..                     1 2    71 00    66  0                               0.0                   0         0      0 0
Access POaN.                    ha                                                                         0.0                   0         0      0.0:
Svt - t.t I                                                   670.4                            16 60 0
Stead. Camel:          ~~~.1000                704     1 is    an07             1114      1.10   134                      0         0      0.0
04'fmk"                                 ~~~~~~4 15.00     0.asi                   950s    474 3                   0         0      0 0
Five".                     .   i.e                                                            7300    "S680                     0         0      100
yaaievl.e.t.  :                      35~~~~~~ ~~ 22 70    267.5        so    15.00    760.0                    0         0      0.0
spil  .01?                                   0 0                               ~~       ~      ~    ~~~~~~~0 0  0  0  0 0
A=. me41m                  :  i.                                                                           0.0                  0         0       0.0
=Aee.aeC.   #;.in.ag      ha    :                      20.00    120.0                                 0.0:                 0         0       0.0:
*    SA-t.saI                                                     1576 2                             SO   7 .0.0
Rica  ah".*I ;Me,           :.1000  :                                      a                                                     0         0      0.0
Plain daiuca                   C.vS                 34d6      1.6 62                   1000      1.48   1480.0 :0                          0      0,0
6W.aaa  gael.a                   *                   143      1.10   345723            16ow      100   1600.0                    0         0      0.0
S'ido.a/evlca.'te  .  me                                              23~~~~~~~~~~.0    16.00    400.0 :0               0      0.0
C...t,eIa    i.e  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000.0                                                                       0         0      0.0
S.hw./fIveae  me   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00.0                                                                        0         0      00:
*    Sub-total                                                    OmI24800                                                                     0.0
Ltaa                        LOW0                  No      1.00    6000             no60      1.00   21160. 0 :0                        0      0.0
*  Av-Ipto.als                   i C. S               614      0.5     681.I2           Is164    0 50   1474.4 :0                          0       0.0
St'vatv'00                      i.e                 1240      2.50   4340.0            1210     2.20   2766 0 :0                           0      0 0
TvbeaelIe IS                                                             0.0:                              0.0:                  0        0       00.
Sub-total                                                    279112                             71074.                                   0 0
.1000  :79610                  1.2as  10971.0 :        615       1 go   5760.0                   0         0       0.0
L.i.i.                        100001                                     0 0                               00:                   0        0       0 0
:St,vctv,ae    .   a.                      6~~~~~~~~~~ 642 00  511.6 0:      6   35. 00    0230:                    0         0      0.0
IvI-tetel                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~14107.0               116020:                                    0 0
bildiaga                                3750~~~~~~~~~~ls  0 20    7500    4800      0 20    O000                 4000      0.25   1000 0
Aequ,eit,0        ha    :               151~~~~~~~28  1s   3456.0 :       200        15   500  0                   0         0       0 0
Cmwteaetiag  far eras.                                                1200 0                             764 0                   0        0       0 0
Sqb -tteu Ia                                 23              4855.0          30.0 0             764 0                   0                0 a
0 SM    Ii  eehiaaj:        .   me1   250 IA    260.0                                      1   250 00    350 0 :0                       0.00       0.0
I   50  00    250 00            0     0 00       0.0                   0     0 00       0.0
T'.vCe \e                                              0    5).00        0.0                   50so00      00'                   0     0 00       00
Fuel trucks             t.                                       0 0                                                     0     0 00       00
UtiIity 'OhiIel e           .   _                      0   IS) 00        0 0              0   120.00       00                    0     0 00       00
Ivt-t.te I                                                   10000                              2500                                     00
10M.Ce/Labo..t.,y Equip
PeC .;'e-ga9Vt.er                                       I     80.00     50 0              1    50 00      so0                    A    so000    200 0
Co.aicet.ea  equip.             a                                        0.0                              s0o0                                  450 0
Soil/.S%or testiftS wlip        svo50                                                                     so00                                  So000
lMial  fob /aag.   quap         eva                                     so0 0                              0 0                                  S00 0
of,  .i..l. *ev                                                          0 0                               00                                   500 0
5.1  .                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200 0               200 0                                 2150 0
:Teh  Aest  & T,..i.0            S..                                      0 0                                0 0                                 1521 5
Gng  A fta.weaa  \ev                                                    796 3                             764 9                                 1064 9
10a141 ma. COOte"                                               59912 2                            57526.0                                 5736 4
\0 10 vaIl  .45 f   tons trucks Sli  h  e *vrchaeed   tU  eagarate 94eset.c fuade
\b 7 valte (oam. vai fer Seth i-ir.tieft aremaned 2 v..ite fer 1vhei Me,*) will be pmrahaemd with aeeedemeetic fvpda
Cellavitd at I W .4 construction forte f.. *noh irigation Brea.
*ed 0.011 4 the %obte  ceaetrvetion go,rh   e , TV hei MmadeVarte.



- 63 -                                                            Annex 2
"tOCLISTWI                                                            CHD                                                            Table  5.1
Procurement ad Maahinery,  q.Ipa.t and  a Il
*     .          :(~         ~~~~------Procurement MeWw.ds   --------
1,...                     l.it       umenti ty     UR ; t      ICS         LIS        LCU    :Others \a        Toteal
....              ---       - -----        Price                              ---        : …- - - -     - - 
….                                              .          . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ammunt  Aount  Amount  : Amount  Amount
Material.                             .            . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(WO0O0) :('0000)    ('0000)    (Y'000)    ('0000)   :('0000)
Canet'ruction:. 
Steel                                            on        11600         1.80:  17400.0                          .17400.0
Cement                                          ton        4.4000        0.18     SW00.0                                           6600.0
Timber                                           as        36000   :    0.90    342100,0              ..34200.0
Sub-total                                                    :11111001.0        0,0:        0.0:       0.0       511100.0:
Production: 
F*rtiIlI aer                                    Wmn        44800         1.00 :44800.0 :..:44800. 0
Pesticide.                                      ton           00        20.00     I2100. 0 :                                  :    1200.0
T,. rea"Ii ngm                                 '000 00        00M        0.20 :                                      392. 0  : 89110,0
Ureadlng *tOct. 
Cattle                                        heed           s0         2.00 i           I100.0  :                                 100.0
she"p                                          no.         8780         0.890 :                                     1875.0  :     1078.0
PoultAry                                      '000         135          2,70 :                       .                36.5  :       8.8S
Robb It                                         '00          12         2. 00D                                       104.0  :      104.0
Pei ath.ylens                                   ton         660          7 50    648000  :.:64800.0
ton        8400         2.  :               164000:                              LOW148.0
Sub-totAl                                                      1102000:  1348.0:            0.0:   00.88        184718.8
Tote I                                                       106400.0 :18480.0            0.0    0118. 5      192915.5
Mahnery. nehicles and boats                                                                     
Iqdraulic bacbho. excavator                     Mo.            5       280.00      1280.0 :1250.0
Sulidozer                                       no.            I  :300.00 .::                              300.0                    300.0
Dred 0    ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~ ~ o.2                        500.00             :               1000.0 :1000.0
Mob    crone                                  I~~~n.  : 1   300.00                        :               300.0         300.0
Sub-total                                         :1250.0 :                     0.0 : 1800.0 : 300.0              268.00
Vehicles:
Trucks
6 tone                                        no.           25        60.00     2000.0 :.,                                       2000.0
p           lO~~~~10tons                                   no.            S      110.00:    580.0                                              550.0
Fuel trucbs, 5 tons                             no.            3        75.00      225.0 :.                                         225.0
Refrigerotine trvcba
S tone                                        no.            6       165.00     1410, 0             .                            1480.0
6tone                                        no.                   220.00       220.0 :220.0
ChIild trucks. 10 tone                          no.                    1.50.00     760.0 :.                                         760.0
Livestock epidemic control nehicle              no.            5        52.00             :                           260.0         260.0
Ambulanc,                          ~~~~~~~~~~                         ~~no.  6 0.00  300.0  .                           300.0
ForklIi ft.,                                    no.            2        20.00                         r:               40.0          40.0
Motor cycle/tricycle                            no.           21         6.00                              IW:          166.96.0
Sub-total                                                    .   56.0           0.0 :     168.0      300.0        602.0
Motor boots, 20 hp                              no.            7        53.00                              371.0                    371.0
Sub-total                            .                              0.0 :       0.0       371.0         0.0  :     371.0
Total                                           :6605.0                       0.0      1639.0      600.0        9244.0
Equipeont
Pumps;
Electric pumping sets (ohriop pond*)            eot           37       134.00     495880                                           495860
Digsel pumping mete firriglation)!
250Ohp                                        eot           16s       33.00      526.0                                            526.0
138 hp                                        Not  :         3  :    27-00        61.0                                             61.0
Electrictpumping eat& (irrigation)              get           32        13.00                              416.0                    416.0
Smell weae C upply pumping Noet                 eat          161         1.30                              209.3                    209.3
Tubewell pumping Not*                           set            7         7.80                               52. 8                     2.5
Sub -tote I                                                      58617.0        0.0       67`76         0.0       624468
Electrical:
Tron.miasion conductors                        ton           180         5  0726.0                                                  726 0
Oener tore                                      no.           1a        75.00      1330.0                                          1380.0
Tranoformars                                    no.           73        80.00     3630 0                                           3650 0
Sub-sattion No;itch goara                        u             0      1243.00:            .1243.0                        0.0  :    1243.0
Sub-total                                                        SO50000        0.0      1971.0         0.0       6971.0
Total I                                                       10667.0         0.0     5648.6         0.0  : 18215.6
Office end Laboratory equip.
Offic, equipment:
Micro-computers                                 no.           16        80.00                  6000                 0600.0
COPying Mehinea                                 no.            5        25 00                              125.0              :      125.0
Office/Train!ing equip. (eater con..r..)        SUm            0       300.00:300                                                   10.
Comwinicetion/monitorinig equipment                5U 00.00                                                              800 0         SW50.
Laboratory souip./inmtrua.nta: \b
Agriculture                                     GU:                     96.00 :96.0  :                                               96.0
Livestockbo                                                            170.00                                          170.0  :      170.0
Forestry                                         G:3300:                                                                33.0          WO.
Water conmer-ancy                                GU1800.00 :1800.0  :                                                              1800.0
Ksriculture                                     smu :                  390.00 ::                                      390.0         390.0
Total                                           :                 0.0 :      00.0 :     125.0 :2960.0  :        3914.0
\a: Include prudent shopping an basis of at least three bid quotetiona, and off-shelf purchase.
\b: Detailed equipment liat and emtimeoted coat. in project file.
\c: Deatiled equipment component lest and estimated coat in project file.



- 64 -                                                   Annex 2
r       .OCLIsT.WKt                                                                                                          Table  5.2
bWOIIIZ DCALML ff  OAICT
Procurement of lbchinery  Equipmen  ant md   triole
<--------Procure.nt Methods   ----------
Item                     unit    *bantity  :  Unit   :   ICS    :  LID    :  LC             :Othera, \e      Totcl 
____                      ----      --------_      Price      -__                    ---        -: ___        ----- _
:           :          :        t :   MountA  : munt         Amunt    :  Amont
:           :  (Y'000). (Y'000)  : (Y'000)    (Y'000)  : (Y'000)        ;(VOOO)
Processing equipment \c                                             :          .          .
Seed procaeei;g             met  :                            I      242 00             : .              242.0    *   0.0         242.0
Fruit proc_rinr                                 ast           4  :  406.00 :  12. 0 :               :          :   324.0  :    1420.0
Cold storaoge eqipmt:                                .
AMi mi producte                               sot          13      446.00 :  6476.6 :              ; ;           429l.0  :   $M.O
shrip                                         "A   :        4  :   6.00 :  2164.0                 :          .            :   214140
Anlml food proceing                             Betk         11      248.00 :                       :  2728.0 :                  274.0
sri   feed procomemig                           sot           8       m:l. 00 :                             .:              :    90.0
Si    tor hese equipment                        set           5      600.00       11: 00.0:         .                            200.0
atHt meet  roceeing                              et           6  : e 44.00:  2064.0                            .            : 204.0
Poultry precessing                              a            : *.00              1000 0                  3 :  .0            1 26.0*
abb  in nproesnelng                             at  :         2  :       .00 :      0.0 :    000.0       47.0:        0 .0       1070.0
Oattit hair proce"ing                           act           £        2S.10    *   0.0 :    12.           0.0        0.0  :      125.S
1014t wool pinning                              at8 3               63.00 : 1161.0             0.0      S0.0          0.0  .  169611. 0
Down proeesinga                                               1  :  1ow 200        0.0 *      0.0      106.0         0.0        10o.0 
Poultry inuoorquip.                             at                    54.20 :       0.0 :      0.0 : 216.6           64.2  :      271. 0
e"eting oysem for chicks                        act                      12S :     1000
Tota l                          :                            29163.6:   725.5    1082O.6 :  2697.4  :  43415.5
Other Machinery A Equipment
Agricultural tractors  12-75 hp                 no.          12        12.00 :           :               144.0                    144.0
Agri. mehinery attecheents:
Tri lare                                      no.           7         4.70:           :           .                       :2       .9
Plow                                         no.            3         1.0:            :           :                 5.4           5.4
Dri l l                                       no.          I          1. 70:          :                            27.2          27.2
Diec Plow                                     no.          10         0.60:           :                             6.0           6.0
Compactor                                     no.           2        2.20 :                                        144
ay sZreder                                      no.          24         0.60             :                                         14.4
Ora  cutt                                       no.:         68       0.0                                           3 81 5        31 6
Fe tili  r bhroedcster                          no.          04            0                        ; 9                8            J 86
Ontes C/o hoists                                act         468         1 00                             4660                     486 0
Boiler l                                        no.  *       4S       72.00                              240.0              *   11240.0
Total                             :            *                 0.0:        0.0    8862.0        125 .4      3 8977.4
TOTAL BASE COST                (Y'000)                          . 214985.86  20005.5 : 19298.6    12447.8  * 2SS662.2
16'000                             57934.2 .  5392.3       5200.4     3368.1  *  7162 .0
\e: Include prudent shoppino on basis of at least three bid quotatione and off-shelf purchaoe.
\b: Detailed equipment list and eetieated coets in project file.
\c: Detailed equipment coonent list and estimated cost in project file.



04DM
WCCN  ARI0ULTURAL DEV9.P.ElT P0JWT
Treining and Technical Assistance
ltem/S..bjecta                   Total    To"rl                Phasing by Year                                                       Propesed ratagt ld Ieetigne
--- --------                    _rn-      cot         --------------------------------…---------                                    _______________-____________
nnthe  (US  000)    1969        1990      1991      1992     1993
I ____ _ _                                                            ------------------ r S--mo---- --------------- 
I  D---n--S---T-r-----------------------------
1. _mt.&a   _e_   v B            __gin               .5     6s. 1      3.5         0         0        0         0           One a   of oa pSerean f o Japan.
2. Poultry  Oreeding/Ra.ine                         2.5        20        0       2.5         0        0         0           One grow of S perag_e to France.
3. Li.matock Product. Prmee.ig                      2.5       22         0       2.S         0                  0           One grop of S por.m.  to Demm_r.
4. Ojor E4uipant Sruey/A.ee_e_nt                   IS.S       96      15 6         0         0        0         0           3 group  totl n  12 permen. OCei.t;atina to be d-ter ined
5 .    1rk.t Sur,ey for Agri. Product               2.5        20        0         0       2.5        0         0           One Group of S peram. to Wa% Oe.rvAy.
6. (i arid and see.-arid area, irrigation
toniquea. (.i) eli,nied ail  _roeawe,t
and d-elopeent. (iii) interbeein- wt.,
tIrnf,. and management * ecomic
and n,ironen- l eeluetio.                           a       7TS        S         a         0        0         0           One grup of 7 peraon  to U.S.A and Vl.ies.
7  Bf.  hickn and p0ri. packing,
end r.telIing t*chnique.                        2.5        40       2.5         0         0        0         0           FMur gro"p' of S person *eah for 2 Weeks. Chien (2). bof (1) en
park (1) to Singepor*. Timi lnd, AlaIi  end M. Zoloand.
Sub-total                          34    269.1       26.5         5      2.S         0         0
11. O,eroeeo  Training
1. Scl l op *redi n/Proemai ng                       12        12        0        12         0        0         0           Dan_rk
2. Shri,p Dreodinal/Proceaeing                       24        24        0        12        12         0        0            lepen
S. Sed Processing TechnoloW                          24        24        0        12        12         0        0           Denmark.
4. Agricultural 10r1l.t Study/projction              12        12        0        12         0        0         0           W. Gar_ny
S. Li ,embock Product S.leii/nagement                12        12        0         0        12        0         0           ltngary
S  Liceatock sodorn  breedinp/rmis.n                 24       24         0        24         0        0         0           U.S.A./Donmrk
7  Shee  Ieprop aenot end Wool Grading               12        12        0         0        12        0         0           Auetralia
*  Beechlend end Tidal Flat Derelopeent              24       24         0        24         0        0         0           Netherlands
9. M S E Tchni.ue.                                   12        12        0        12         0        0         0           Paistan or Phillipine-
10  Wter Reourcee Integrated Use/Trensfer            12       12         0         0        12        0         0           U.S.A.
11  Agri. De.alopeent Proj  Study/Vnengeen          24        24         0        24        0         0         0           megico
12  Mod-rn  Ari,  Economic l.nage t Tech.            12        12        0         0        12        0         0           Canada
Subtotal                         204       204         0      132        72         0        0
-- - - -  - - -- - -  - - - - -- -  - - - - -  -_    -------------------------------------------------------------------------_ _  -___  -------------___  -_ _  -   -_    --------_-____-____--_-__ ____ _____ _-__ _____ ____-____ ____ _____ ____ _____ -_ _ _ _ _ _ _
-I,



CHn
3HenC AQlO.LT.rAtL DEVELP JTW ItJlT
Tran.ing and Tachicel Assisteanc
IUsSubjects                    Toi.tIt   rose.I             Phosing by Year                                                  Proposed  ~Non  snd lo. ;oen
ean - ---                 ---c- - --  - -----… ----- --------------
menths  (USJ OOo)    1969     I90      191       1992     1993                                                                      …
III. Local Training and Swudy Tours
1. Shrimp faio.no ;.echniue_.                   100       107     6S0       250      200       200        0          10-day dration training coure eon obrinp raising. per.:.eaI  and larvae c
for 4,000 Pend operators.
8. oasetp -dm"    _           _ _m               176     14.2       76       S0       26        25        0          10-day traini   eour  on risi-ing  sa    culeture and
proeseir no  ci oe t             es"
8.Se   Dreeding an  Quality Control               70        6       40       80        0         0        0           "-dmy ewur_  for 400 counftsaY/_ehip seed _ogpmie_'
techni ci ans and dametrate  in _and  _d1n Yow-
4. Sand Procesing                                  a      1.8        6        0        0         0        0          12-day omrse for 20 %elmnicane free ountu
eoe   companies in See  proae      t_c.Ine .
S. Liestocl. Jreding and Raiging.                730       s0      400      260       100        0        0          16-day course for  800 liv,weck raisrs in breeding and rsiming t.c"i4ms
I. Liestock PFroduct/Fed Procoeina               126       is       25       so       sO         0        0          15-day course for 26  teci.cisae f ref te vari_eus I ivetad. processing pet
7. Project Implementetion and Management         100       26      100        0        0         0        0          16-day course IFr 20 projudct euff in projet planing. finacial NW sot
6  Agricultural Fcono, ubnagea_nt                IS      6.4        a        7        0         0        0          t grouve of 6-6 perame/gre.  to stud  mnsg.at in Jiagi. Jiasngu  am"
Hsebi and other IDA-fnaned projet preas.
9. Foest/Fruit Truss Culti,ation                2000       go      400      400      400       400      400          10-day caurse for*000   seciall;d heugekeld
on date and feret trees oulttiv ati  a.
10. Fruit. Proceasing              O0                       3        0        0       iO        1S        0          10-day course for 100 techician  from the   kn fruit preueesing pleet.
11  licro-coeputer Training                       17        3       17        0        0        0         0          20-day course for S  irrigation staff in databess innagaaat.
12. Irrigation Arse 0 A II Tachniques             14      2.8       14        0        0        0         0          10-d) _ares* for 42 irriegaim. staff no irrigtion or" operation. mintn
and _nagssant. an  genmoic befits eneysis and evaluation.
13  Water Resources Use Optimization              16      2.5       15        0        0        0         0          1day course for J0 irrigation staff   optiaiag techniques for "tor re
da-olopment an u_ea including designing of softle.
14. busines Administration and Plnaeeeant         80      2.6       30        0        0        0         0          IS-day eorse for entrpriee/factery   nagar  en bueiness sdsinietrstion. a
and _rbteting techniques.
1I6 Cosnral Li.-etock S-rvices, nd Ertesio        12      8.7        6        6        0         0        0          Si. 3-dey training course  for 20 seashiciam  eachi eou_*_ fres 18
count es inolved in I i es_tsc. Ceure  to be esndustsd bj   _ ndan
Inat,tut. of Veterinary Scienc. of Uskndengl Agricultural Acadeep.
Sub-total                      46        3e4      17"      1043      790      640      400
Totl Training and Study Tours            4400    27.1  1818.6    1160D   614.6         640       400
-   .___ _______ __ --------------   ____ -----------.......... __________________ -   -_______ -----   ___ -______________________________--------_____________  -  ---  - ---------



oUa"
InC*C AItlCULTUPAL 0etE..F4dT PRJ0.T
Training said T.chs.cul A.. ste.ce
IV. Tu  aaIc   _ ictl sih<-ce                             0----       -6     00                    0---
a) Oi .r'tiona1 Rieserch
I UQptimiztion  11d I ins for Wnter                     88.7     26.9      U3.4     UA          0         0          Mo  l lins on guets  tras,fer, diversion. and mauor
t_ourCee U-G                                                                                                    re -ces development and umm in North.  bmadeeg.
2  Tretat_nt of Sdii_nta                                536      13.4    10.4       13.4     13.4         0          Study of the sediment  vee,t  is soail spt.. and
their trestesst mend inategrutbod us.
3  Irrisetio. Tectnia.u  and                           107.6        0      26.9     26.9    26.9       269           Establish 2 euperi mental statio  in projeet irrstieft
System Operation.                                                                                                 *rsea to study lrriepties techniques i   d muter reguiremaita
4. Eni ronmental Imsact Study of Ar-a,                                                                               Soi I and wintr eAeCmn#" ums.t.ria, sad fwrmetNiae in
Irrigated by Yell. Fij-                                67       20        20        9        9         9          irrimted rore  of Tub.i sad Mojim River nesinse
S. Shrimp Feud Fo3 ult                                  1        13 .4        0        0        0         0          Shimip feed f*ormistien stody mi puteguem ef fruulmti,o  riot.
S. Wintering of arodStock (Shrive)                       206      100        S0       33        0         0          Studioe as wintering of harvestd brinede *%e  fw breeiss purpose.
Sua-totenl                             4*113    173.7    128.7    118.7        49.3     36 9
b)            andtrin  ai Evsluution
1. S_uort tor Locul Evprtime                            53 7     26.9      13.4     18 4        0         0          Enbaueet of locul " AE experrte fr_m leoI ;ietiuti;e.
2. W,rkeg  and Seminsr-                                 536         0      13U4     13U      13.4      13 4          Asnual wormk.me.ismre to rmskenig  ideem  aid for twiing;s purpeu.
S. Overuese Eportime Input                                          s 4   15  48    36.4        0         0          bamegeut of foreign esuprt to review N AE e t..
4. N & E Field Actinitium                               13U5      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7          Field mumey. end cesn_. formt mad eyetem Assign
Sub-totl                                217.2     44.6      74.5     $5.9      16.1     16.2
c) Cosultant Servicso
I Local Subject Spetimli-et                             13.5      5.4      2.7       2.7      2 7         0          Lreol _bject specialits   lD oeni projt
immalemtetias uai inaegumat.
2  Detailed femeihility etudes of various
egro-prouem  no                                    108.4     51.7      51.7        0        0         0          Ar t . of 6 mn-me            ro  re ai%e m it l  mVit is
,detailed fsueibi liSp studies of liveeeepreventeing plest.
3  Esleb    v i   n t aid o.elapoint of
Livestock Technical Ser. ce Centers.                 13 3     13.3         0        0        0         0          Local coneulteste to *sis etustiee is euteblishiai  iwA develPins  liv e*t
tocknicl oavice centers. empecially an equipmant said estosion nsuede.
S.b-oOtal                               130.2      70.4     54.4      2.7       2.7        0
Total Technicul Aeoistance                       S46 7    266 7    232.6   I64.3    661          52
ToOl Treaing and Tockical Amietieaics                  1672.8
I"1
-    ---------------------------------  ------~~~, 
-- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -  - - - -- --  - - --  - - -- -- -



- 68 -                           Annex 2
Table 7
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
__. ... ....  _............. ..... ............. ...... . . . . . . . . . . . .
IDA            Disbursement                        Disbursement
Fiscal Year   Semestral  Cumulative   Cumulative    Profile /a
Semester     ----(US$ million)----        (%)      Year/Semester (%)
1989                                                  Year 1
1st             0           0                        1st
2nd             0           0           0            2nd        5.4
1990                                                  Year 2
1st          10.0        10.0                        1st        -
2nd          12.0        22.0          20            2nd       29.2
1991                                                  Year 3
1st          15.0        37.0                        1st        -
2nd          17.0        54.0           50           2nd       61.2
1992                                                  Year 4
1st          20.0        74.0                        1st        -
2nd          16.0        90.0          83            2nd       91.0
1993                                                  Year 5
1st           8.0        98.0                        1st        -
2nd           6.0       104.0          95            2nd      100.0
1994
lst           5.0       109.0         100
/a Disbursement profile for China - specific investment loans
Completion date: December 31, 1993
Closing date: December 31, 1994



- 69 -
Annex 3
Table 1
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feed Requirements and Source at Full Production
Incremental Production      Feed Equivalent      Notes        Feed available
Tonnes DM                          Tonnes DM
5,500 tons beef                123,750      Quality feed           150,700
1,600 tons mutton                36.250     Grass/Pasture         ,52,600
Sub-totals                 160,000                            503,300
Rabbits
14,304 tons meat                150,500     Quality feed            96,300
102 tons hair                10.200      Hay, coarse feed      589.500
Sub-totals                 160,700                            485,800
Moogatrics,
9,750 tons chicken (LWT)         29,250     Quaility feed          160,400
6,050 tons goose meat (LWT)    24,200       Hay, coarse feed       232,500
15,560 tons pork (LWT)           62.240
Sub-totals                 113,690                            392,900
TOTALS                     436,390  Dry matter equivalent 1.280.000
1)  Most incremental beef production originates from fattening existing
feeder steers for 90 days. Feed conversion rate beef with av. 2.2 kg
grain in the ration is estimated conservetively at 9 : 1.
2)  Feed conversion rate for sheep and breeders including supplement during
winter is conservatively estimated to 9 : 1.
3)  Feed conversion rate for rabbits including breeders is conservatively
estimated at 3.8 : 1.
4)  Feed conversion rate for chicken under intensive conditions incl.
chicken production is conservatively estimated 3 : 1.
5)  Feed conversion rate for geese under semi-intensive conditions,
including goslings, is conservatively estimated at 4 : 1.
6)  Feed conversion rate for pork under intensive conditions incl. breeding
is 4 : 1.
7)  Feed available data comes from provincial feed balance tables (3.4.4
Tuhai Report, 2.6 Yi Meng Report).
8)  Quality feed is 80% DM, grass/pasture is 40% DM.



- 70 -
Annex 3
Table 2 .1
co
-EO     AWCUTLAL  DEVUAWN    PMDJ3
Pm  Nadel - TtuiL Uiver lS4a 1,
Pr net-Mithmut Proec    Pure-VLtb.ut Ptoject                1utuge-WLth Project
Itms _r ain    Otbor   Total                           rains    Other    Total    Oroai      Othbr    Total
/2   Crese 31                     Cre                           Cras
Area (A)                       4.0       3.5      .S       *.0       3.5      9.5       4.0       3.5       9.5
Output (Xe.)               1,743.0    467.2            1n779.0    39 .0             2,440.0    530.0
Gross Value (YTu)            637.3    549.4 1,40.7    647.6    559.9  1,407.7  1,164.2    60.4  1 99.43
Cav4tal Investmnt
OperatiLn Costs
Seeds/Younm  AnLmls           43.4      20.0    71.0      42.0      23.4     64.2      37.8      21.7     59.5
Vertiliaer/Peds               65.1      53.2   138.3      63.4      53.1    136.?    124.3       49.1    193.4
Organic manure               129.2      58.6   1U7.S    12646       55.6    1S2.2    147.0       69.0    236.0
Aero-Choeical                  5.9        25    26.9       5.6      23.9     29.7       6.4      24.4      30.6
Traccor Power                 11.5       5.9    17.4      11.3       6.1     17.4      11.0       6.4     16.2
Animal Power                  25.3      14.0    39.3      24.8      14.3     39.1      26.3      14.7      41.0
Irrigation Water              30.3     13.5    43.8       29.7        14     43.7      32.9      15.7     48.6
Other Coets                    0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0                           0.0
Total Costs                  330.9    19642   527.1    324.6    190 .4    515.0    3U4.5    241.0    627.5
Net Value of Production    506.4    373.2   879.6    523 2    369.5    692.7    799.7    566.4  1,366.1
Other Income 4/                                400.0                        400.0                         400.0
Fao-ly Incmeo                                1,279.6                      1,292.7                       1,766.1
P a_Ly Labor (Manday) 5/       142         8     230       135        96       231      140       102       242
Return per Mand.y 64           3.6       4.2     3.6       3.9       3.6       3.9      5.7       5.6       5.6
-----------_-------.---_------_------------_-_----------.--------_---__------__--.-----------_--_-----_-_---_----
1/ A typical household has 9.5 ma of land  nd 4 family mem rs. (See Tables 7-9  Agricultural Component
Ln Project 71e).
2/ Coposed of 3.7 mu of wheat and 2.3 mu of maIse.
3/ Coeposed of 3.9 au of cotton, .2 mu of peanuts, .6 m  of soybean. .3 m  of vegsetbles and .3 mau of others
(mainly mIllet).
4/ Prom other sLdalLnes activitios.
S/ for faving only.
6/ To labor used In fa-ing.



- 71 -
Annex 3
Table 2 .2
Uimm   WuLTAL uvmin   ''J3C
rama N,e  - TAMo  vImzaja 1I
Pv.amg-Vt1gn Fojet                        tPjeet                                Vmtaro-UIgh pwojut
tiM                      OroISn 21  Oth., AMAMI 41  Total   Gaol.J   Other  AMimi    Totl    Sgml.  Other MIm. SI  rot"l
Cp SI 3gebesaW                        CuPe Mwbwav                           Ce. _wbmI
Ars  (1u)                      5.6       2.6      0.0       6.2       5.4    2.6       0.0       *.2       3.4    2.6       0.0      6.2
Output (Ia.)               1.274.9    401.9                       1 364.4  367.6                       1, 3".4  3$7.6
Grom Value (Yua)             59.7    344.5    271.4  1,215.6    641.7  377.4    271.4  1,290.3    641.7  377.4  3.770.0  4.769.1
CPItal laveatmont                                 0.0       0.0                        0.0       0.0                        5.0       5.0
Operatinz Costs
U     yedaYmm  Animals        39.3      28.8                 .1      39.3   23.6                64.9      39.3   25.6    345.0    429.9
fertilizeriFoods              76.4      24.2    117.2    221.0       76.4   25.9    117.2    221.5        76.4   25.9  1 9O0.0  2,004.3
organic Manurg               114.6      45.9              160.5    114.4   44.6                159.2    114.4   44.6                159.2
Are-Chemical                   5.5       4.6               10.1       3.5    4.6                10.1       5.5    4.6                10.1
Tractor poer                  10.7       3.6               14.3      10.7    3.9                14.6      10.7    3.9                14.
A MImal Power                 23.0       6.7               31.7      23.0    9.2                32.2      23.0    9.2                32.2
Irrigation Water              27.1       7.4               34.5      27.1    7.9                33.0      27.1    7.9                33.0
Other Costs                    0.0       0.0       5.5      5.5       0.0    0.0       5.5       5.3       0.0    0.0      10.0      10.0
Total Costs                  298.6    125.2    122.7    546.5    29".6  121.7    122.7    543.0    297.6  121.7  2,280.0  2,700.3
Not Value of Productlon    301.1    219.3    146.7    669.1    343.1  255.7    146.7    747.3    343.1  255.7  1,490.0  2066.3
Other gLco_m G1                                           300.0                                300.0
Flemi1  Income                                            949.1                              1,047.5                              2,048.6
PealLY Labor (Kanday)7/        132        35        60      227       121      3J       60       219       121      36     10        339
Return per Handay 2/           2.3       6.3       2.5      2.9       2.6    6.7       2.5       3.4       2.0    6.7       6.3       6.2
…__________  ___________  -________________________________________________________________________________________      -__   -_-____
1I A typical household h. 3.2 -  of  uled mid 4 fnily members. (See tables 11-12 AgrIouLtugal Compemt An Project Film).
2/ Ceo sed of 3.0 du of 'beot end 2.6 am of meLse.
31 Comoeed of .2 mu of cotton, 1.0 ma of peenat, .6 au of soybeen, .3 mu of vegetables end .3 ma of others (_mLipl  mllet).
4/ Meat rcbbLt households noroally hew. 2 females and I  ale rcabbIt. (See table 4 Llvestook Coment Ln Project Mle).
5/ With the project a housebold can raLso 10 fm_leo end 2 males of _ at rabbIts, 2 fm_les end 30 hair producers snd 600 goee
( ee tables 4, 7, 20 of LIvestock Co_oent Ln Project FLle).
6/ From other sLdeauAc actvLtIes.
7/ For farming only.



- 72 -
Annex 3
Table 3
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Conversion Factors Used
....................    ............................................................................................... ...
Standard Conversion Factor a,                                  0.67
Machinery/Equipment b/                                          1.40
Energy - Coal                                                   1.30
- Gasoline                                              0.68
- Diesel                                                0.75
- Electricity                                           1.11
Transpot - Road                                                 0.90
- Rail                                                1.50
Cement                                                          1.40
Steel                                                           1.80
Labor - Unskilled c/                                            0.65
- Skilled                                                1.15
- Management                                             1.70
- Technical                                              2.00
Other Non-Traded Goods                                          0.70
Earthworks - Mariculture                                       0.84
- Irrigation                                        0.79
structures                                                     1.02
Consumption Conversion Factor d/                               1.15
a/ SCF -(Official Exchange Rate)/(Shadow Exchange rate ) - 3.7/5.5
b/ Based on conversion factor of 1.0 for imports under ICB and 1.4 for
locally made machinery and equipment.
c/ Based on consumption conversion factor divided by 50% of market
wage (Yl.75/day).
d/ Weighted average of ratios of 1988 economic to financial prices of
wheat, corn and other grains plus beef, pork and other animal
products with the weights based on 1988 Shandong per capita consumption.
Note:  The other conversion factors are baced on estimated of border prices
and conversion factors calculated in an internal Bank Paper "Economic
Prices for Project Evaluation in China", (Revised Version) date April
16, 1988, and actual financial prices prevailing in Shandong Province.



CHINA
S8MIDOG ARCICULtURAL DZVEL0UHEMt PrOJECt
Crop Budget at Full Develipent
tYuanIha)
..- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----_-- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Unit Unit        Wheat        mlats         Cotton        peanut        Soybean   Vegetablee  Othett 21
Items                   Price Amount Value mAount Value Asount Value mount Vatue Amount Value Amount Value _mo  t Value
A. Without Project
Yield               ton          2 5           2.7            0.6          1.0          1.1          13.5           1.3
Price 11           Y/ton                 SOO          370         3.530         1t930           U20          400           332
Product Value        Y                1.250           999         2,110         3,0 U           902        5,400           432
Byproduct Value      v                   168           66           230           106           105          540            36
Total Value                           1,416   0.0  1.06I          2.356         3.254         1,007        5940            050
Inputs
Seeds               kg           160    120  50.0      o0  OS60    *5 140.0    196  70.0         64  20.0    SO0  10.0       5
Fertilizer
*                   kg    1.2   105    124  90.0    105  140.0   105  40.0         43  55.0      60  60.0     96  25.6      30
P                   kg    1.5    55      99  45.0      Sl   15.0   135  50.0       90  40.0      72  55.0     9   15.0      27
K                   kg    0.5      3       2   3.0      2    4 0      2   0.0       0   0.0       0   0.0      0   0.0       0
Organic Nanure      ton  20.0    20    400  10.0    200   15.0   300  20.0    400   6.0    160  15.0    300   2.0           40
Agro-Chemicals       V                    14           16           170            10            IS            15            6
Tractor Power                             30           27            30            20            20           20            20
AnislP ower                               70           52            70            5o            50            so           40
Irrigation                               gO            53            10            35           3I7            5            45
Subtotal                                959           619         1,030           549           504        1.145           213
Not Value                               459           447         1,320         2.405           503       4*795            255 
Labor              Nandaym       160           ISO            370         125           100           140           115
Return per Nauday                       2 9             3           3.0          19.2           5.0         34.3           2.2
S Wtth Project
Yield               ton          3.5           1 a           0.3          1.6          12.             15           2.1
Price              Y/ton                500           370         3.530          1930          620           400           332
Product Value        Y                1750         1,406         2.324          3474         1312          6000         69. 2
Byproduct Value      v                  20S            90           317           156          152           272            s0
Total Value                           1.95          1.4I 6        3,141          3630         1464          6212         747.2
Inputs
Seeds               kg           140    112    45      72      75    75   135    109    65    71    20    SOO         9    4.5
N                   kg    1.2   145    174   135    162    ISO   192    SO         *0    00 9o          100    120    35    42
P                   kg    1.6    90    102   GS    117    105   159    11    135    65    117    70    126    25            45
K                   kg    0.5      5      3      5      3       5     3     0             0
Organic lnure       ton    20    23    460    12    240        25   500    25    500    10    200    25    500        4     60
Agro-Chenicals       Y                   10            17           170            13            IS           25             S
Tractor Power                            30            30            30            2S           25            25            20
Animal Power                             71            52            70            60           00            65            40
Irrliation                              100            SO            76           40            St            7b g5                                 4 |4
Subtotal                              1,132           751         1,305         1022           053          1431         292.5                      C.
met Value w                             827           746         1,837         2600           011          4641         44.1                      a  x
Labor              Mondays       ISO           170           390         10            130           160           140
Return per  "ndap                       4.6           4.4           4.7         16.3           6.2          30.3           3.2
-- -- ---- -- --- ---- - - --- - ---- -- --- - - ----- - --- -- _--- ---- --- _- -- -- -- -- ---- --- ------ -- --- --- - --- -- -- -- - -- - ----- -- -- -- -
11 Include  cabbage  nd leafp vegetables. pe  and beams, repr-eented by beon.
21 Includs other cereals. repro-anted by millet.
3/ See table 2 Working Peer 5 to Project file.



- 74 -
Table 5
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Su ary of Household Benefits by Enterprise
..............................................................................
Enterprise Net Income
Annual Incremental  Nev        Existing 1/
Households         No. of HH    Production               Total  Incremental
…-.-..--..------.----..  ..--......------.-..--..--.......--..--------------...
Yineng Mountain                                               Yuan
-Heat Rabbit SH       25,120     14,260t-meat    1137      906         231
-Heat Rabbit HH       58,500                       178     148          29
-Rabbit Hair SH        1,000       120t -hair      724     597         127
-Rabbit Hair HH        8,000                       243     161          82
-Pig SH-Breeding         100       13,300sovs   1,615      825         790
-Pig HH-Fattening      6,400           7,780t   1,596   1,508           88
-Poultry SH            1,650  3.9 mil-broiler   9,393   6,211        3,181
-Geese Product. HH     3,000                       123        -          -
-Geese SH             19,000    1.8 mil-geese      271        -          -
Tuhai Areas
-Crops HH          1,300,000         376,400t   1,366      880         486
-Beef/Cattle SH        3,500            5320t   1,607                    -
-Sheep SH              4,600       1300t-wool    2,860   2,128         732
1590t-meat
-Poultry SH            1,550     3.8 millions    9,393   6,211       3,181
-Date HH             125,000          35,000t      683        -        484
-Tree HH               3,000     205,450 Cu m      722        -          -
Coastal Areas
-Mariculture HH        6,600    8,800t-shrimp   2,200         -
10,080-scallops
248t-abalone
22.4t sea cucumber
........-...---.------.------.----.-----------...------------. .--..-.-...
1/ About 20% of households have existing activities and would benefit from
project's improved technologies.
2/ SH-Specialized households, and HH-Ordinary households.
Note: Details analysis can be found in Working Paper No.5 for Crops and No. 4
for Livestock, in the Project File.



- 75 -
Annex 3
co=                                                  Table 6
inmtainA omAm ra
00,6mg Pt.W. Js ptsOleL h.6MMa  _  ZA su 1(0I   CmOi   tom)
,, ,.,.,,,,, .......... ,................ . .............................. .......................
WA_"  _Le          @.ao   8gbem     berI              o      Os       ON
........~~~~~ .. ......................... .. .. _ _   .. .....   .  .. . . . . ....
*Me _,60 ,,                                  I 9  I              IN    N
, ........
...........
MOULd m ftlosOlues) I$               15         G     1.565        259       229s el            139   o SS
0_M  V s"  ($)                        4          0       (60)      (25)      (25)                24        24
CWiU   @L__  ($/ilo)                 I"         GI    1.US         216       1M      1.1   *1  164        219
czVu CDI     u   (tIim) 21           736       219    S.643        7n          2    4.296        0        61o
Foul Chaegm a" DLOtarLhAtero
MOLS   31                           91       (34)    (522)       (6)       (96)     (1s9        o        96
T rep e,l,n-WM1o.aLo   4/              5        (S)       CS)       CS    ()           (46)       5          5
r  _  Le"Ie   5        (10 )       X        (10)      (16)      {1X       0l)       14        16
MLILLng Col. less s2ppat val ue                          t00
.miae Psrid  (vlts)                  616       245    5.1in        073       411    2,070 6/  70          ta2
amew  PtLee (/to&) 9/                500       370    3,530        "0      1,960    2.000       540       750
2000 Prime
world ms*kt Ptrid(8/to) 1/           194       136    2.147        281       274 61             240       295
Oem  Freight ($)                      46         0       (60)      (2.)      (25)                 34        34
CZ/fP00 QLaodae (/tem)               240       136    2.087        284       249    1.16n  7/  280         329
CIP/O  QL0aa (TIts) 21               6        503    7.722        947               4,390 1.036         1.217
Pert Charges ma DLatributers'
MargiA 31/                         lS        (70)    (720)    (110)    (106)    (199)    i1t             135
TrawportPert-bheLssaler */             5        (5)       (S)       (5)       (S)      (40)        5         s
6gau-wheles,ler 5/        (14)      (16)      (16 (     116)      (16)      (10)      16        1t
MiLI1g Cost, Less  ypprd4at Value                        100
Sammie PtLe  (Yltea)                 962       412    7.061        G16       72t   2,070 8/1,175        1.373
FLDA.nL-L PILeo  (Yltoa) */          SOO       370    3.530        620    1.930    2,000        540        750
11  WerId Book price Prejeetion. J.auaiy 190.
2/    Sheban4  rst. 0f Y7.71 - US2I.
3/  Port chargoe  of 25Y/toa. plUs 92 dL.trLbiuter'  _ elLa.
*/  400e4 on roll trwasport charcss of YO.O2Ie/alk.,  ad an avertge dLst aeo of 2)0 km.
5/   ased oa road  ranpoeret charges of YO.2/ton/a/, and an average dL4stanes  g 100 kO s.
6/  Lued on projected ptLeo of peanut oll and _ *, and assuLins that a toa   of unahukljd
p-mWti yLeld 0. 25  on of oLl and 0 45 toa of deal
7/  PrLee received by foreign Trade CorPoraeoa.
0/  Covrctd at 502 to get vaLue of fresh date.
91  Based on weLghted average el 1987 procurog_t, naegotIted* a4A *ate   prices La Sbhad4 ntor f ero. and
1"? _ a3kt prLe0 fog  "te.



-76 -                                         Annex  3
Table 7
SN    t  ACIIL7ML  DmWtAn             CSJW
lehve  Prie" for Liveateek s    Lveeteek Pvedee  (La IOU6 C_.tat  wam)
2m5      Peik    Debbit   Rabbt i     Lmb    Greay   CheLok
Net      hLa               U.l       mae:
not ra   sltatus                       X        X         X        X         X         n        X
kw. Quit Value of Zort (1906)  tl.319/t $1,672/s U1,644/t                81.849/t 62.741/t t1.S34t/
(frek/f rose)
Souis  1/                             CST      CST       CST      FTC       ITS      ETS       CS!
world Nr ket Price(S/ton) 2/
Cry/bom Qido (S/ton)                  1,833    2.01S    2.225   2S,163    2,230    4,433    1,610
CIF/POS Qiagdia  (Y/ton) 3/           6.600    7,487    6,255   97,072    *,271   16,446    5,973
Port Carges mid Distrlbutors'
Margin 4/                            (437)    (699)    (746)  (6,761)    (770)   1,305        (363)
Transport:Port-Wholesalor 5/            (46)      (64)     (64)      (44)     (64)       44      (66)
Va-rU-lhoLealjr 6/             (9)       (9)      (9)       (9)       (9)       9        (9)
Price 3m-Processiag Unit              6.066    4,711    7,410   66,236    7,426   16,004    5,333
ProcessLng Adjustnt                      50S      50S       362        OX      531       601      552
By Product Not of Processing Cost    (220)       443       576   (5,670)    (339)       (20)     777
Zconomic Prieo (Y/ton)                2,823    3,621      'M94   62,544    3,743   10,762    3,710
FinancLal Price (Y/ton)               2,500    3,000    3,400   70,000    2,600   10.000    3,600
1/ CSY a Chinese Statistical Yoarbooks rFTC  Foreign Trade CorporatLonw 8TS - eongkong Trcad Statistics.
2/ Beef, pork end rcabbit ma  pricos increse based on US beef Liport price mLimx  for lamb price
increaso based on Pow gealand  _mb price indx, for wool pricL  increase based on UK wool price Lndox.
3/ USti - Yuan3.71.
4/ Port charge of Yuan 25/ton, plus 92 dLitributor margi.
5/ stiLmted awerago dLstance between port i whoLssler of 2S0 k  (at Y.3/t/k  for met products end
Y.2/tlkm for others), adjusted by transport convergion factor of 0.9.
6/ Farm to wholesaler of 50 km (at Y.21t2/k). Adjusted by transport CF of 0.9.



- 77 -                            Annex 3
Table 8.1
CHTNA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Shrimp Foed Price
Unit Price /ton             Feed Cost/ton
Compo-           --   ----- -------------
Item                       sition  FinancialEconomic   FinancialEconomic
%       /a              Yuan
Soybean Cake                 49          600      430 b/      284      211
Fishmeal (Imported)          15        3,000    2,200 c/      450      330
Fresh Trash Fish             15          500      350 d/      105       52
Wheat Brw,&                  10          300      210 d/       30       21
Wheat Flou;-                 10          500      730 e/       50       73
Additives                   1%         4,000    2,800 d/       40       28
Subtotal                                                 959       715
Milling and Other Costs                                    141 f/      119
Feed Cost per Ton                                     1,100       834
a/ Average of prices provided by the counties.
b/ Based on relationship between financial and economic price of soybean.
c/ Based on fishmeal export price (fob Chile) of US$470 per ton.
Source: "INFOFISH Trade News", April 1, 1988.
d/ Conversion factor for non-traded goods of 0.7 applied to the finar.cial
price.
e/ Based of relationship between financial and economic price of wheat.
f/ Based on data provided by counties, and estimated financial price of
feed of Yl,100 per ton.



- 78 -                             Annex 3
Table 8.2
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shrimp - Economic Farmgate Price
.…....                                     ...                _.…...
Export Prices
-FOB Qingdao (US$/ton) a/                                              7 330
-FOB Qingdao (Yuan/ton) /b                                            27,195
Port Charges, Distributor's Margin                                       2,470
Transport: Port to Wholesaler /c                                             52
Farm to Wholesaler /d                                            13
Price ex-cold storage                                                   24,660
Processing Cost e/                                                       1,230
Processing Adjustment                                                       60
Economic Farmgate Price (Y/ton)                                         14,050
Financial Farmgate Price (Y/ton)                                        15,000
a/ Based on the following size and price assumption (frozen, headless):
Esitmated        Weighted
Size Count/lb       Price/kg    Size Distrib.      Av'g. Price
31-40          $7.60         80%                 6.08
41-50          $6.38         15%                  0.96
il-60          $5.73         5%                  0.29
$7.33/kg
Average price based on average of Spring 1987 and 1988 Guangzhou
Fair Price (fob).
b/ US$1- Y 3.71.
c/ Average distance of 200 km at refrigerated truck transport costs of Y0.3/t/km
adjusted by road transport conversion factor of 0.90.
d/ Average distance of 50 km.
e/ From table 3 Mariculture Component in the project file.



- 79 -                            Annex 3
Table 9
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agro-processig4 - Results of Financial Analysis
FRR
Tong County - Rabbit Slaughterhouse                        25 %
- Rabbit F'.r Processing                      22 %
- Foed Processing Plant                       16 %
Wudi County - Cattle Slaughter line                        17 %
Fei County - Rabbit Slaughterhouse                         18 %
- Rabbit Hair Processing                       20 %
Huimin, Shanghe, Shen, Chiping Counties
Date Processing                             13 %
Yinan County - Down Processing                             26 %
Laiwu County - Pig Slaughterhouse                          27 %
- Feed Processing Plant                      20 %
Note: Details analysis can be found in Working Paper
No. 3 in Project File.



-         t             -- -  --- -
1610 hGAtt
OD uplarn mis ~ ~        ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ Imsr idsIvnSem
ts                                    .      .      '0      mm      es        -    -                                                                                                              -        -  -    - : 
I,wtin~1.m          3.    14.0    193    3Il   .1 t 1                         -    1-         -W 1-            l      -       -"   -"         -W   -" 1-             -      W        -"2b31X
-     - -       - -- - -   -- -   -- -    --   - -- -- - -- -- - --mu ..-- -   -- -    - - -    - -e.- - -- -- -    - -- -   - - - -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- ---  - -- -- -- -
t.  twm1. ya4, I@ 
PsriclturL                   1.1   0.0    61.1       .        16 -   -1
laiprln iss  pt            1.      I2.    32.1    11.1  28.  0 .23.    1P.    3.    1.    3.   31 3.                      1.    6.    6.1 3.             31 321 3.                4.0 11.          .0 3       ms 23.
Mu. MINNwmCa
t     lvntut                1.-    1.6   24.1   12.3   91.4  319.1  28.9   39.9   343.0  33.9    ".    ".9   64.1   @3.3   64.   651.3  614.                       .1      .               .       8 "    3 -                          °
ariatiur                      -    i.i   12.0  16.          2.9    1.9   Me    1         111.9   1211.11 m.       12.9   m.9  MJI.   1m1.9  M2.   M.   m1.   811.9   m4 8                           .   M         211..  -ml.I
Srle ult      eI            -.2    42.6   -1.0    9.1        ?.  -1.   -24.   -12.    1.6   23.6    6.2   14.6   16.1   66.1    6..   92s.1   36.9    1.6   16.   813.3
mi m. .  vm,
1.0.1                    -33.6    3.6  -3.2    1.6    9.3 .2        1     63.3    ".9  39.0   3.          1.1   45.5    3. 46            16.    6.6    %A    961.0   4.  5661.9   3.3            1    3.0  1          3.
Ifflfs            -              -  .0    24.2   9.  1 n.^  100 11   71..           -    IJl.O   W-.  43.l.1 4U1    11          I. 1.1 416      ^1 4111.  1  4111.   4WOJ$.l 41I4.1   4U.1   4SI. 0 413.1   4J.I
orticuture                    -  d.1 In. I^t.2 Im.                       07 .- In. 0n. 1. 1n. n                                   1.9 lfn.f lflrn, I.t .                   11   ttnn    . . --.
lA        w     _tnw s      -7.1   -S.11      -.#     -9.1  -15.9  -174   -24.t  -12.1    5.4        ZtJJ    6.2   64.6    ?.?       Ill.    16.J    9n      111-1   "Le   1111.4   MeJ. 111.1  S3.t   11.0 I".11  111.2
fotnv OK  _fts              -1.1   -1.1   -.t    -1t    -4.t    4.1    4.1   -0.1    4.1   Q1.t    t4               11.6 
1X1t ar.11Mi.              -2.9   Y1.1   M.9   MA.    M.   111.4    35.9  S5.4   17.11  66.11  W.4   M.?   MA   111.3   MI   MS. 1                      111 .6  In.?    .1    141-    la?  1114    111  91 21   SO.
of WM. KWIn
Total                    -73.6  -211.6  -S.?    77.6   Is   1u.6   M.1    TA.   t0.                       51y.1  43.3   61.6   441.6   40.1    -49.   4I   .1  O I  *@    Jt.1  J.1   3-  BFI-41  Jn.l1
W 



- 81 -
Annex 3
Table 11. 1
con
SIW=  AECULTU3L DEYEVLoRU    FCSECT
Key Monitoring Indlcators - Tuhal Irrigatlon Componant
ZIndlators for                      1999          1990           1991          1992          1993         Total
PhyLecal Progress          Unit  Eat &I   Act   Rat    At   Rat        Act   Eat    At   Eat    Mct   Rot   Act
I. Irrigation and Drintwe:
Earthworks
-Conveyance Cenaal                000.3
-Silt R*tention Basin             000.3
-Main Canal                       OOO00
-Branch Canal                     000d3
-Drainage Channels                000d3
-On-farm Works                    000.3
-Storage Basin                    OOO3
Structures
-Flumes(ConveyancetMain Canals)    No.
-Flumes(Branch)                     No.
-Controls(Conveyance/Main canals)  No.
-Controls (Others)                  so.
-Bridges (Conveyance)               No.
-Bridges/Culverta(Nain/Branch)      No.
-Bridges/Culverts (Others)          No.
-Offtakes(MaLn/Branch)              No.
-On-farm Structures                 No.
Pumping Stations                    Vo.
Tubevella Fielded                   No.
Land Acquisition                    ha.
Buildings                            m2
O&M Machlnery Procurred
-Hydraullc Excavators               No.
-Dredgers                           no.
-Bulldozers                         No.
-Tractors                           No.
-Utility Vehicles                   No.
Area Influences;
-Improved Irrigated Area            ha.
-Expanded Irrigated Area            ha.
Annual O&M Costs
-Total                              y
-Per Hactae                        Y/hi
Total Water Charges Collected       Y
a/ To be finalized at project launch vorkshop.



- 82 -
Annex 3
Table 11.2
aiuA
RA=O=C AXCULTAL DZY1AM? P*OJ  T
Rey Monitering ladiocator - *Ariculture and Poresty Coempmt
------------------------------_------_--_----------------_--___--_-----------__--------------------------------------------
ls41eatehc fer                          lbC            1it0              1991            1992            199M             Total
P41k la  1regrega             Uthit  got a/   Act    got    MAt    let    Act    lot    *et    Ret    Act    Rlt    Act
------------------------------_--------------------------------------__------__--------------------------------------------
XI. Asriculturt and Porestry
fortillear Imported                    tone
S  d Center Upreadd                     go.
Forest Trees rXtcbliched                ha.
Date$ Intoererpp d                      ha.
Performance Indicators
Fertilizer Conseution
-Total                                 tons
-DAP                                   tons
-Total Per lctare                      t/he.
Improved S-od Produe d
-Wheat                                 tons
-Maire                                 tons
-Cotton                                tone
-Others                                tons
Seed Production Costs
-Wheat                                  Ylt
-Malse                                  Ylt
-Cotton                                 Y/t
Average Irrigated Yields
-Wheat                                 t /ha.
-Cotton                                t/ha.
-Maise                                 t/ha.
-Soybean                               t/ha.
Average Rainfed Yields
-Wheat                                 t/ha.
-Cotton                                ttha.
-maize                                 t/he.
-Soybean                               t/ha.
Intercropped Date Yields
-Small Dotes                           t/he.
-Large Date*                           t/ha.
…-------------------------------------------------------          --  ________… ____________________________________________________
a/ To be finalized at project launch workehop.



- 83 -
Annex 3
car"                                     Table  11.3
Kty Ngmkt:ewL  hIieet.ra - Livestock Compet
-.-.--.----_.----,--___,---_---_-_-_-__-__.-_----__--.-------___----..___----__--------------__-_-_-_---____-----_---_-----
ZISeaters for                       IWO            19"           199            192            199          Sltal
1hsL.L P rezsea             Mit  got Q    Let    got    Aet    Rs%    Aet    Nst    Act    got    Age    set  LAt
TekaL Asseat
Broodift Farm IatabiisheL
.show                               so.
Breedias Stok Prourred
-Cattle                             30.
-Sboep                              so.
-Chion                              so.
Credit Disbursed
-Total Amoet                         Y
-No. of Sou.sholdS                  SO..
craslsnd/lasture D*velopped         ha
Al FaciLties Ln Operation           go.
Tecbnical Centors                   so.
Yi 1ev. Ares:
breadLng Form  satblishsd           go.
-Rabbit (Couaty facm)               so.
-Rabbit (Township fam)              No.
-Rair Rabbit (County)               No.
-lair Rabbit (Township)             No.
-Pis                                No.
-Goose                              go.
-Chicken Doonstrittion Frm         Nlo.
-Iroedin  Chicken Fara              Io.
Credit Disbursod
-Total Amot 
-No of louseholds                   go.
Al FaeLlities in Operation          go.
Technical/Veterinary Centers        No.
Won Teacbnicans Trained             NO
Performnce Indicators
Breding AiaLml Sold
-Cattle                             No.
-Sheep                              No.
-Meat Rabbit                        mo.
-Rair Labbit                        NO.
-Pis                                no.
-goose                              No.
-Chicken                            No.
3o. of louseholds Suppiled
-Specialixsd Bouseholds             3o.
-Demonstration louebolds            me.
-Other Households                   go.
AX Performed                        go.
Credit Recovered
-Total Aount                         Y
-Z of mount Due                      I
*I To be finalisod at project launch workshop.



- 84 -                                                Annex 3
cuoA                                              YTable 11.4
siaM     AGULTUhL DUYVLOKT PWJ3C
S-  VAft-tn ZndiLcters - Agre-Process ns
Irnicators     .                 Ing            ito            ll              12             1"s           eTotl
unit l.t a/    ert   got    Act    get    Aet    got   Aot    Not    Act    get    Act
----------------------------------__-_----------------------__-____--__------__-----_------------------------------------
PbpeLea Pvnressa
Omits Umdev Coentructio
-Abb-toir                         be
-Cold Stores                      N.
-Tannery                          No.
-Uoel/testile Plants              No.
-Coore Down MLIl                  N..
-Fruit Procersing Pleants         mo.
Units in Operation
-Abbatoir                         N..
-Cold Stores                      NO.
-Tannery                          go.
-wool/textils Pleats              No.
-Goose Down Kill                  No.
-FeedaLlls                        No.
-Fruit ProcessLng Plants          No.
Op. ratkn  Perforao  co
Total Production                 tons
Total Salee-Doesetio             tons
-Exports             tons
Amount Ln Stock                  tons
Capacity UtlLastion               X
Sales Price -Domestic             Y/t
-1xprot              Ylt
Operating Costs
-Total                             Y
-Per UnLt Output                  Yit
Total Costs (inml Overhesd)        Y
Net Incoa"                         Y
Appropriation of Net Incomes
-Bonus/Dividend  Paid              Y
-Retained o
Total Capital 3eployed
-Equity/Accmlated Reserve          Y
-Lon-Term Debt
-Interest bearing              Y
-Non Interest Bearing          Y
Return of Capital Zaployed          I
T/ To be finalised at project lswnch workshop.



- 85-                                                                      Annex 3
Table 11.5
co=
aml f1Su.1^  Z"aees  - Ir1cult rgE Comofent
... .... ... ...... ...... .......... ............. ... .... .......... .. ..... .... .. ....... ......... ...............
Is, I~~a.em.e            .loo             1.9             106            1991            190            low8
lt% lm SI   Ast    an           A"      a"      Mt    le       Mt    Ie       A"t    tn    *t
----- -.. ... _._. . ... .......... ..... . ...... ..... ..................................
lt   il.irm.                       .
................
................
Gms%&  be_      .  et.          es
b.
s,a. &isist                      is
l... .. ..........
-no. oe  Pd      O               me.
-Subetations                      s
-ld It,                          i.
__esalL  Came
-Tees.l Cec,c                    is
54.9... Pt.1.m                   is
Sp*cildty Seatood CW..pent
-AIse                            be
-l.81lef                         be
-0"lee  '.p  .
vebleLa. pie..zud                Me.
lSet* p.'eststd                  is.
?*W.  p      widetL
-miss.s                         to"
-"Blow                          tm
-lsee Oes, .:                   to"
IbILd For flet...
-     _besue                    tile
-h181m                          tihe
-l.  CAO1e.                     til
-s.eu   cm                      the
bets Ceess t
lesiL Cee.tedLeS Usets          0l
-tb<L                    tam
SaiLs, rLt.ibeasslet            Its/
bess, le     -Pm.'             tie
Totes opvt.e-4etL.               li
....... ...___.__
1.68  se.uls Ceete                V
s_let"   c                      .1W
"Is   ses,    e                  Ti
Goldts _,   ,t
1.1.l Consoles,                 C."Is
LI _    Ysedto"
Iiw* lisere          w            /t
*es Cspett                      'ee
is ?S                           tme ,
e5.u C4 lss                            te
_WsS ._______i__       5.
Cspeelt  Islltt
… 
Cl V. e   Llaelleed   t pjeet l¢          websIep



-86 -                              Am
Table 12
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVE;OPKENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery
. ....................................................................
Total Project
At Full Development *J                                         (YOOO)
.......... ...................  
Incremental Not Income /b                                   241,620
Less Incremental:
Family Labor (Imputed Value) c/                                8,910
Management Services (Imputed Value) d/                        12,081
Return to Own Capital (Imputed) d/                            12,081
Equals:
Project Rent                                                208,548
Incremental Charges:
Water Charges e/                                              27,680
Tax f/                                                         2,700
0&M( Labor Obligation g/                                       9,720
Total Charge                                                 40,100
Rent Recovery Index h/                                         19.2%
Overall Project Life i/
, ...............
Project Rent                                                 509,020
Incr. Project Charges                                        114,873
Rent Recovery Index                                             22.6%
Project Costs j/                                               442,900
Cost Recovery Index k/                                          25.9%
a/ Year 2000 incremental income expressed in 1988 prices.
b/ Before water charges.
c/  Incremental family labor 11 md/ha (270,000 ha) at Y3/day.
d/ 5% of net incremental income.
e/ 1.73 billion cu moeter p.a at Y16/1000 cu m incremental cost.
f/ 1% of incremental crop value (Y270 million p.a)
g/ 12 md/year/ha valued at financial wage rate of Y3/md.
h/ Total charges as percentage of project rent.
i/ Expressed as present value discounted at 12% over 25 year project life.
j/ NPV of total investment and O&M costs.
k/ Project charges as percent of project costs.



-87 -
CHINA
SHANDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELWPKENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in the Proiect File
A.  General  Rorts and Refar.na Materials
A.1 The Seventh Five-Year Plan for Shv.ndong Province's
Economic and social Development.
A.2   Statistical Yearbook of China, 1987, State Statistical
Bureau, Longman Group (Far East) Ltd.
A.3 China: Shandong 1987 Statistical Communique, Dazhong
Ribao (Chinese) May 9, 1988.
A.4   Statistic for 1987, Socio-economic Development, State
Statistical Bureau, February 23, 1988.
B. ReRorts and Studies Related to the Proiect
B.1   Shandong Planning Commission, Main Report (January 1988).
B.2   Shandong Planning Commission, Feasibility Report: Tuhai
River Agriculture Component, Main Report and 12 County
Reports (January 1988).
B.3   Shandong Planning Commission, Feasibility Report: Water
Diversion from the Yellow River, Main Report and
Reports for the Five Irrigation Systems (January 1988).
B.4   Shandong Planning Commission, Feasibility Report:
Coastal Development Component, Main Report and Five
County Reports (January 1988).
B.5   Shandong Planning Commission, Feasibility Report:
Livestock Development Component, Main Report and Eight
County Reports (January 1988).
B.6   North China Plain Agricultural Study, Executive Summary
Shandong Project Management Office, June 29, 1987.
B.7   Shandong Agricultural Development Project, Project
Brief and Four Working Papers, FAO/CP, June 29, 1988.
Working Paper 1: Tuhai Irrigation Component.
Working Paper 2: Agriculture and Forestry.
Working Paper 3: Aquaculture.
Working Paper 4: Livestock.
C. Working Papers
CA1  Project Costs
C.2   Tuhai Irrigation
C. 3 Agro-processing
C.4   Livestock Models
C.5   Agriculture Models
C.6   Financial and Economic Analyses



- 88 -
CAlY 1
cmm
-~. AGIWLWAL UYOHUU WOSO
Prioect Or3a aitie
m  I                                                                            M _   wa  .  .     | t
* iiewtl*a  a"
Pr.febuee                      PrLsec. e   £ Countr aI U
ProjPct ManagfmeCt Ofe  le              A
I~~~ ~       ~~~~~ __~f I~?1~tt*
Prefeture,                                  Prov lrel *R Iural Economi c
Coulctol                                      Develop.sCp     Cutt Invest:mCnt
3oevr_wt    __ - -                                  Corporatlon_        Nel
prejeec 1prs.s.sut
I     Inuty&         --       Idsr  &   ptY1  LifSa sC A, r,   lazer
C* - ra" de Cop.reeoj"tp
PrS, bctur /       |     | Pretfeture A County  |            C
5uu 5 cl w l               Irrl pt Aon/Drinl                  q i
Project O [ffie                  Comnd H
Counity GOvevrnmet                        County l             County w.tfe.1 &.feh
Agrlcvlture      l     Forestry       pr"ein o pl_"t&z
l                l      ~~~~~~~Industry A  _    Iriuctry       wawta tcput adTA to (^sevrs
Counwty            - - - - -l      Trad  Corp.       l    Trade Corp.
Frtey r             Aquetle                 Cowny                 County
| Ourzu |- Froducts                       n          l             quotl e
s          _     O~~~~ureau             HwsoWndry             ProXctg
r                                I"~~~~~~~~~~lduetry A    __. ndKustry A
Anoll        |                            Trade Corp.          Trade Corp.
WsHb*try  11J 
l ur ou               Agriculture|
Wate           I !eniel LrsvsZU
| 5r | | ce tchntelc  m  exceefflua su"rs
ICosrvancy IJ to '1 -
I        I~~~~ "Sits in preparation a"
Bvro u           revie of pr@ojet dsip
I I~~~~ pojeez mnitoring a   vel - z&"



- 89 -
FIGURE 1
CH
SHNOGM REUTRLDEEDMN  PROJECT
Imnametaion Schedule
. .......... ............................. ...................... .......................................... ....................... ..
1988      1989      1990      1991       1992      1993
Tuhai Agriculture Develooo nt
Irrigation:
Conveyance canal improvement
Silt retention basins                   --
Main/branch canals                      --
On-farm works                           --
Rivers/Drains                           --
Pumping stations
Storage reservoir                       --
Machinery, vehicles & equip.
Training                                  .......................................
Seeds:
Fertilizer
Seed equipment
Building/store                          --
Training                                  ......
Forestry:
Date/intercropping
Forest establishment                                           ,,
Building/store
Training
Livestock:
Pasture development/improvement                                                              l
Animal breeding fr'ms                     ,,     -,-l
Agro-processing                                                                              l
Technical service centers                   .
Training8--------------------------------.--..
…-----------------------------------           ---------------------------- . .-----



- 90 -
FIGURE 1
Cont 'd
..... ................. ................................................................
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
................................. .......I........................     - ..l,. ......... ....
Co 1a Mariculture Rjvel22ment
Dike construction                  -.-      .
Shrimp ponds                       --
Canals/drains & structures
Pumping station
Shrimp hatcheries
Shellfish/sea cucumber
development
Feed mills
Cold stores
Roads                              --
Electrical power                     .
Machinery, vehicles & equip.
Technical service centers
Training
Yi Meng Livestock DeveloDment
Rabbit, pig and goose
breeding farms
Breeding stock
Feedmills                              ..................
Agro-processing
Technical service centers
Training                              .............................. ........
Institutional SuDDort
Irrigation research                                                      ,
Mariculture research
Technical assistance (local)
Shore term training                                    ,
............ .....................    ........     ....... ........................... ....... ....... ... .............. ... ......



- 91 -
?IGURE 2
t~mew wm                ms                                    "                                 I90
t~~-i   jYf,                                              . .Z llSl iiilllS * lml;Tm.mllml         lil-l-l
All IC2 Ite         except   t   CS    47.6 _          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I -
Fort. & Cement (2nd Yr.)   a             a     AdM      *
Packagt No. 2                              _      1 E _   a r       1 U  1 _  _         7U  s   I
All LCB Iteus              LCB      7.6  ACUA                    I _                             . ____
ACIUA.. . . . . . .m               ... . . . . . .
Packase No. 3                             At1I _ _.. MIN I   m_L  I I I I I
FisheaJl                LIB      5             .             5I.m . _ 
PackaRe No. 4                        a  a               - _ _ _ _
IRabbit Har        & Skin       LB    0.2_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       ~~~~~ ~~~~ACTUAl.  m u           .q i   . m    m    m  m  :     m
Procesana Mahines                                         I- 
Packsute No. 5                             APPMSt^umuuII _                         Im_        I_
I   ,  R   .           I    I    l*vSo I I I _ _ _ _ _ I  I I_ _  I_ _ _I
Microcomputers             LIS    0.2   ACtUAL                   I  _ _ _     - _  I  _ _     -          i u  
F   Package No. 6              lC      15          AIO                     131 mm.. _ _                       mm
Fertilizer & Cement             ICB   14.5   I      "     v                I I
A2n   easr)                                  ACYkUALmmu         - -            n m       m. mmm            m .
TOTAL                          75.6 |"                      mmv..   ::                    y _ o  _
X~~~~~~~~~u                                               Im.   I~    mu . Imm. i _I:
|~~~~~~ a                                       I                                      - -i - - a - - 1  -I  
ACtUAL m   m~m.m .. k         u 
|                  |       |        l*~~~~~aviao  I. I mm4 Il' Iu Im I I  I I
ACTUAL   I     mcu        m  1 1 1   LL L.
I it lAVg "S*UPAAIOf OP Wt,0CIACT,O.i At4 60 OOCWI?S                                                0|"b
? T^^lt tUCIPICAllO"S le SIC *OuSW110   CA|b             IC IoO  NYSAI CILIVINIUS A? SITS         eeII?l?IVS SICO
3 iD CtIA*AftCU1 ro 010PAYOl AleC SIC OCCUUIY             IttO1 PIhAL OSLIVENY A? SI?.         LCS-LOCAL CC0g.l?lVa
1,      z~~ 1oNI tIALUATle USOA ANo AWANO NECOWONCA?u0t.°gI TO 0°*                                      NSG-NSGO?IA?iOb
S AAAAO^0 CONtUACT
;.CpieTATI#$MYXO ROUIIIIIN






HEBEI
313                                                                                                                             p
cil
Youim
e          g
oo,l,gy.g
Q-u
ow
,g Xa,,
f                                                                                        Ol1jcp;er,g                                                                                                                                            y     49ou
gy,,a,                                                                                                                                               shria
0                                                                                                                                  .0
ng,ao
0                                                                                         -z,ai
0                  /Z1bo
We, X,a-
Chi                                                                                                                                                                          mg
!NAN
aoL
"IO
Ta,'ar                                                     Y. ua"
_0 -
H E N AN
0                                     0                                                                                                              h,
0                                                                                                                                                        Qwuhs
A
:0
0                                                                                                  X,11
L
x a-
0
0
xinz1,uangN
kian;r                                                            L,ny,'
a.3
L 'Shu
Zaozhuan
'IO                                                    0 Ca,gsho,--                                          GayulD
T                                                                      g
91
O"g,
JIANGSU
HENAN                                                                                                                                                 'k
AN    I
7c Be,gt,



ea MO".0 .0                               'f  - - ,e a  .
4sO~~~~~~~~~~~~4 -tX ,, U..n      a   fls
gm,    .   s'-:                     , -    In -  -~
, -  §na,W 4 't  -~  * ,,                                    M                                      ~  "   ~ ~ AGRICULTL
S   .   .                                                                                                                     LAYOUT OF
Proposed P-
L Moss ,os.. w'                -                    Xgan                                                                         NW Caeals
4.                                                                                                         ------ ~~~~~~TiGanXinConal and D
Pumiping Sto.
s °Gotes and Fl
& ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Silt R~fnion
lrrigM.n
.. ....... . Fully  Irrigate
Shen Xion                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Partially Itrr,
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J ,r.gduzhouang S
,  i                     8. tf                                            /    \ ,,                   ~~~~~~~~~~o6 )_n  
.,+!/A+ti/~~~~~~~~~~- .                                                                            y4     A  
Xih                                           Y Ji    AI'
L t ~~~~~~~Chochn    xmocOs .g X|S+|
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ i                                  N1
\                i               I  ~~~~/ jI ,.
W                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Goomioown
°Shelisi
L __                   ____ __                                                            7



AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCE
WUDI SHRIMP POND LAYOUT
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1|
KILOMMIUS
l       \ ~~~Pum ng Station                          Conol I
I                                    .- t  
Cwtol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                -<             _            .                 ,-  
I  a- -  ~  - ~- -I  a  - -   -         1-                    -I
-; -. -. ' ' - -- '' - -   - n. 
' #                             -!                 i                 ! - - w. - p. aw.-,~ .ets
, ~      ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ Caa .                              
MaMa  I             -:A
-    taa-                 -                           I n. -a   
6            ~~~~~~PROFILE X-X
NOVEMBER 1988



