Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2017 CHA
(Shandong Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SHANDONG PROVINCE
Dated September 14, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2017 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SHANDONG PROVINCE (the Province).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 82,500,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Province 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and "FY" 
means the fiscal year of the Province starting January 1 and ending December 31.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Province declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and rural development 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Province shall otherwise agree, the Province 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Province shall: (i) on-lend part of the proceeds of the Credit, made available to 
it, to the Corporation which will in turn on-lend to the prefectural, county and 
township enterprises, for the agro-processing and production activities under the 
Project, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; applicable interest 
rates will be no less than ABC's prevailing interest rates for similar loans for 
similar purposes; such rate to be reviewed from time to time with the Association in 
light of the cost of funds to the Corporation and its financial viability, as well as 
changes in ABC's interest rates; and (ii) pass on part of the proceeds of the Credit, 
and make or cause to be made adequate and timely budgetary provisions to the other 
entities participating in the Project, for the implementation of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Province shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
The Province shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Province of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Province shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its 
review by November 1 of each year, a detailed annual budget and work program for new 
construction, and operation and maintenance of existing facilities, for the following 
year.
Page  3
Section 2.06. In order to assist in coordinating and carrying out the Project, 
the Province shall maintain the Project Management Office with staffing, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Province shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition in respect of the
Project.
(b)
The Province shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Province shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.02. The Province shall ensure that water charges be set, adjusted and 
collected, as necessary, to cover at least the full operation and maintenance costs, 
as well as 20% of the total capital construction costs borne by the Province for the 
irrigation works under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Page  4
the Province thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the
Province of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Province:
Shandong Provincial Government
c/o Shandong Agriculture Development
Project Management Office
1, Shengfu Qianjie
Jinan, Shandong
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
0677 Jinan
39200 SITJIN CN
Shandong
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Province, 
or by the Province on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement be 
taken or executed by the Governor of the Province or such other person or persons as 
the Province shall designate in writing, and the
Province shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SHANDONG PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped under contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works for structures and building construction shall be 
awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
Earthworks for shrimp ponds, dikes, canals, drains and on-farm works shall be 
carried out by force account procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Breeding stock, tree saplings and such other specialized items to be approved by 
the Association, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,200,000 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Fishmeal, computer and rabbit pelt processing equipment may be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from all known qualified suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set froth in Sections I and II 
of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Page  6
5.
Small equipment and machines up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $800,000 
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Province in carrying out the Project, the Province shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. 
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
The Province shall ensure the Project activities shall be carried out in 
conformity with appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued by the Province 
and acceptable to the Association.
2.
The Province shall ensure that agro-processing facilities constructed under the 
Project will be operated as financial independent entities, and  managed  by competent 
staff with experience and expertise acceptable to the Association.
3.
The Province shall carry out the staff training under the Project in accordance 
with a program agreed with the Association. 
4.
The Province shall furnish to the Association semi-annually the progress reports 
within 30 days of the end of each six-month period.
5.
The Province shall by November 1 of each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Association for its review, a plan for provision of chemical fertilizer requirements 
Page  7
for the following year.
