Document of
The World Bank  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3045-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 29, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank uthorIation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980           April 1981
Currency Unit         Yemeni Dinars (YD)           YD
US$ 1                  YD 0.345               0.345
YD  1                  US$2.90                2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31                 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31              (1975)
January 1 to December 31            (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADF                             Agricultural Development Fund
BPU                 -           Beihan Project Unit
FAO                             Food and Agricultural Organization of the United
Nations
FAO/CP              -           FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
HYV                 -           High Yielding Variety
ICB                 -           International Competitive Bidding
IFAD                -           International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAAR                -           Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MRS                 -           Machinery Rental Station
NBY                 -           National Bank of Yemen
NDB                 -           National Development Bank
PDRY                -           People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PCMFV               -           Public Corporation for Marketing Fruits and
Vegetables
UNDP                -           United Nations Development Program
YAR                 -           Yemen Arab Republic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
Amount:             SDRs 6.6 million (about US$8.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA
Project
Description:        The project would increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 4,000 ha of mixed spate (flood) and well
irrigated lands in the Beihan subgovernorate by
rehabilitating the spate irrigation network and improving
the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and by
providing technical assistance, farm inputs and
agricultural equipment for Wadi Beihan and Wadi Ain. It
would establish a program of hydrometeorological
observations in Wadi Beihan for improving knowledge of its
water resources and ensuring their optimal utilization. In
addition, it would improve access between agricultural and
population centers in Wadi Beihan by constructing feeder
roads, and improve the nutrition of the local population by
increasing production of fruits, vegetables and meat.
The project would benefit directly 5,000 families. In
addition, 15,000 persons would benefit indirectly from the
project through the increased availability of foodstuffs
and easier access to markets and social and administrative
services. The principal risks of not achieving the
project's objectives are associated with an unsustainable
rate of drawdown of groundwater in the project area and
delays in realizing full production benefits. The project
has been designed to minimize these risks. Greater use of
spate water resulting from rehabilitation of spate
irrigation works would reduce groundwater demands and
increase aquifer recharge. The government would strictly
control new well development in the project area. The
project also has a strong management and technical
assistance component to ensure successful project
implementation. A well-trained team of local employees
would then take over project management on completion. The
government is conducting with the assistance of consultants
a study on its pricing, taxation and subsidy policies in
the agricultural sector under the Wadi Tuban Agricultural
Development Project (768-YDR). The implementation of the
recommendations of this study together with recent policy
changes in marketing and pricing would provide further
incentives to the farmers to adopt technological packages
to improve farm production.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated Cost:  1/                                 Local      Foreign      Total
…--- US $ Million -------
Project Management                              0.8          2.5         3.3
Agricultural Extension                           1.0         1.1         2.1
Farm Inputs-Supply and Distribution             0.2          0.8         1.0
Spate Irrigation Improvements                   0.3          1.1         1.4
Erosion Control and River Training              0.4          0.6         1.0
Wells Improvement and On-Farm Works              1.0         1.4         2.4
Equipment for Machinery Rental Station            -          0.5         0.5
Feeder Roads                                    0.4          0.7         1.1
Hydrometeorological Stations                      -          0.03        0.03
Physical Contingencies                          0.3          0.7         1.0
Price Contingencies                             1.5          2.8         4.3
Total Project Cost                  5.9        12.2         18.1
1/  Not including duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
Financing Plan:                                      Local      Foreign        Total
------- US $ Million -------
Government                                 3.9                       3.9
IDA                                                     8.0         8.0
Project Beneficiaries                      0.2                      0.2
IFAD                                       1.8          4.2         6.0
Total                              5.9         12.2         18.1
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:                    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
-=Ml---------- U        llion --------------
Annual                  0.2      1.0      2.6      2.6      1.2      0.4
Cumulative              0.2      1.2      3.8      6.4      7.6     8.0
Estimated Completion Date:    December 31, 1986
Rate of Return:                  About 24 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 3352-YDR of April 24, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 6.6 million (about $8 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help
finance a Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project. The Government has
successfully concluded negotiations with the International Fund for Agricul-
tural Development (IFAD) for a loan of $6 million equivalent under joint and
parallel financing arrangements to help finance the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission to review the second Five-Year Plan 2/ visited
PDRY in March-April 1979 and its report entitled "People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen: Special Economic Report--The Second Five-Year Plan (1979-83)"
(2683-YDR) dated January 25, 1980, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 6, 1980. An updating economic mission is now in PDRY. Its
preliminary findings will be incorporated into the President's Report for the
Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, scheduled for Board
consideration in June, 1981. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.        Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a socialist
society. The principal objectives of the Government have been: (a) to
satisfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods,
shelter, employment, health care and other social services; (b) to develop the
production capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries,
industry, construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure
sectors, i.e., transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to raise education
standards, emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase
exports of domestic products.
4.        In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on a
strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which brought
the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
1/   Part I and Annex I of this report are identical to those in the
President's Report for the proposed Third Highways Project, which is to
be considered by the Executive Directors on the same date as the proposed
project.
2/   This plan has recently been revised (see paras. 6 and 7).



public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian
retorm laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and production cooperatives--were created to
facilitate the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques.
Fishing and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two
of the remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British
Petroleum) and an international communications facility (Cable and
Wireless)--were transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
5.       Private enterprises have been allowed to exist mainly in trade,
manufacturing and construction. But the private sector was given a
subsidiary role and private enterpreneurs are expected to follow the lead of
the public sector. Cooperation between public and private enterprises is
encouraged in some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of
Joint ventures are now active. Foreign private investors have been
encouraged to participate in oil exploration.
6.       Increasingly comprehensive economic and social planning is being
used as the principal tool to implement PDRY's development objectives. In
1971 the Government launched its first development program, covering the
three-year period 1971/72-1973/74. The program focussed largely on a number
of public sector projects which were to be carried out with the help of
foreign capital and technical assistance. It was followed by a more
detailed Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978), which in addition to the investment
program, introduced specific targets for the major economic and social
sectors. Work on the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) originally envisaged to
cover the 1979-83 period had started in early 1979. However following a
recommendation by the Council on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries
to synchronize their five-year economic plans, the SFYP will now cover the
1981-85 period with 1979 and 1980 serving as transitional years. The
revised sFYP is expected to be approved very shortly. It consists of a
macro-economic framework, sector analyses and investment objectives. In
addition to infrastructure and productive sectors the Plan covers such areas
as foreign and domestic trade, manpower development, social sectors, and
production planning. While still relying on technical assistance from
foreign experts, the Government has substantially strengthened its own
planning capability. Plan preparation and execution has thus become
increasingly the responsibility of Yemeni staff in the Ministry of Planning,
in technical ministries, and in public enterprises and cooperatives.
7.       The latest available draft of the revised second Five-Year Plan
which is to be finalized shortly shows that the Government continues to
pursue the overall development objectives outlined in paragraph 3 above. It
proposes a total investment of $1,475 million (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85
of which 39 percent is allocated for infrastructure (including electric
power), 19 percent for agriculture and fishing, 11 percent for industry
including oil and mineral exploration, 4 percent for education, 17 percent
tor housing, and 10 percent for other services. The Plan assumes that about
$1,050 million (71 percent) will be financed through foreign capital, and
the remaining $425 million from domestic resources. The Plan calls for an
overall growth target of 10 percent per annum with sectoral growth targets
of 14 percent for industry, 9 percent each for agriculture and fisheries,
and 11 percent for transport and communications.



- 3 -
8.       In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
insutficient technical and managerial skills, low levels of productivity,
and worsening labor shortages in the construction sector. A harsh climate
severely limits the area available for cultivation, although substantial
increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher yields,
and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The narrow
domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for industrial
development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged topography
which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation resulting in
increased domestic transport cost.
9.       Lack of adequately trained manpower is another major constraint.
The Government has tried to fill the gap with bilateral and multilateral
technical assistance, including UNDP which maintains a large program in
PDRY. In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large
education and training program was launched and in recent years has become
increasingly technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher
education abroad and the establishment of technical training institutions in
PDRY, the country is now generating a growing flow of technically trained
people who could gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower.
10.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors, including
the construction sector, is one of the principal problems faced by the
Government. The reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems, weak management, shortage of trained manpower, lack of
spare parts, and inadequate maintenance. The revised Plan recognizes these
constraints and gives priority to measures aimed at increasing
productivity. In this context, the Government has recently been engaged in
the review of the structure of domestic prices aiming at selective price
increases as incentives for agriculture producers and fishermen. Following
this, farm gate prices of some agricultural products were raised by up to 50
percent in June 1979 and again in 1980 by a similar anount on a wider range
of products; and producer and consumer prices for fish were increased in
beptember 1979, and the consumer prices again in March 1980. These
increases in prices for produce marketed through state channels have been
accompanied by measures to permit farmers and fishermen, both as individuals
and in cooperatives, to sell a portion of their output on the free market
at prices substantially above state procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $4 million in 1970 to $173 million in 1978. The allocation
of investment funds appears to have been well chosen: half of all public
sector investments during the first Five-Year Plan (1974/75-78) went to the
commodity producing sectors with agriculture and fishing receiving 35
percent, and industry and mineral exploration 15 percent. A large share (32
percent) was invested in infrastructure (including electric power) while the
remaining 18 percent was spent for education and other social services. The
sharp increase in public investment was accompanied by a major expansion of
current government spending on education, health and other public services.



- 4 -
12.      High levels of investment and other public spending have
accelerated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices grew at an
annual average rate of about 7 percent during 1973-78, compared with only 2
percent per annum during 1970-73. The major growth sectors were fishing,
industry, construction, trade, transport and government services.
Agricultural output increased only slowly, reflecting the productivity
problems mentioned above. More recently industrial production has picked up
mainly as a result of increased oil refining. GNP rose at a faster rate
than GDP (12 percent per annum during 1973-78) due to a rapid increase in
workers' remittances.
13.      Substantial progress has been made in achieving a balanced income
distribution, and in the development of social services. State ownership of
production facilities and egalitarian wage/salary structures have reduced
income differentials in the growing public sector. Supplies of basic
foodstuffs and other essential consumer goods are readily available to the
urban population. School enrollment has risen sharply, and health services
have been significantly improved. However, large differences still persist
in the standard of living between urban and rural areas. Rural incomes are
estimated to be only about one-third of average urban incomes, although in
some regions rural incomes are supplemented by remittances from family
members working abroad. The basic reasons for rural poverty appear to be
low productivity of the agricultural and fisheries sectors and possibly
adverse terms of trade between these sectors and the rest of the economy.
Solutions to the problem can therefore only be found in tackling these basic
issues.
14.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending for development
(para. 11), the Government had to make a major effort in mobilizing
financial resources. With a low per capita income, there were severe
limitations on raising domestic resources. The principal instrument used in
mobilizing domestic funds was taxation and until recently containment of
Government employee salaries. However, these were increased in September
1979. New taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. As a
result, total government receipts rose from a level of 12 percent of GNP in
1969/70 to 21 percent in 1978. Government revenue continued to increase in
1979, especially self-financing by public enterprises from their retained
profits which increased from $4.9 million in 1978 to $12.5 million in 1979,
and again in 1980.
15.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries, and
more recently by Arab nations. In addition, PDRY received support from
regional and international organizations, including IDA and the IMF. The
exact amount of all foreign resources put at the disposal of the country is
not known since some of the commodity aid has not been recorded either in
the budget or in the balance of payments. But, on the basis of identifiable
aid, it is estimated that aggregate disbursements including transfers rose
from an average level of some $8 million per annum during 1969/70-1971/72 to
about $131 million in 1978.



- 5 -
16.      The rapid expansion of the public sector, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. The
value of imports has more than quadrupled since the beginning of the decade,
trom an average of $89 million per annum during 1970/71 to an estimated $387
million in 1978, with further increases in 1979 and 1980. Besides the
devaluation of the US dollar, this mainly reflects price increases for
foodstuffs and petroleum products and the growing capital goods imports
necessitated by the country's ambitious development program. The growth in
import value has placed a heavy burden on PDRY's foreign exchange budget,
all the more so as the country exports relatively little and thus benefits
only marginally from price rises in the world markets.
17.      Indigenous exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover
only a minor share of the import bill. In 1978, they were estimated to be
about $18 million or some 5 percent of commodity imports. Much more
important than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are
dominated by worker's remittances. The latter rose rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $56 million in 1975 to an estimated $320 million
in 1979, and to still higher levels in 1980. This has been due to rising
wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to some additional emigration, and
to new incentives which liberalized "own exchange" imports, allowed the
construction of private dwellings, and offered higher interest rates to
non-resident bank depositors.
Foreign Aid and External Debt
18.      Fast growing exchange earnings and increasing disbursements from
foreign aid (para. 15) have enabled PDRY in recent years to cover its import
requirements and to strengthen its foreign reserves. The latter rose from
$55 million at end 1975 to $212 million at end 1979, equivalent to almost
half of the imports of that year.
19.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end
1979 amounted to $915 million, of which $372 million was disbursed.
Bilateral sources accounted for $665 million or 73 percent of total
commitments with the USSR providing the bulk ($369 million), followed by
China ($142 million), other Eastern European countries ($104 million), Arab
countries ($48 million) and by Denmark ($2 million). Multilateral aid
amounted to $250 million including $175 million from Arab Funds, and $63
million from IDA. The average terms of all loans are highly concessionary
giving a grant element of about 58 percent. In addition, PDRY has received
about $180 million (until the end of 1979) in grant assistance, mostly from
Arab countries.
20.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt has resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1979 were $5
million or 1.4 percent of total exchange earnings from exports of goods and
services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt service



obligations are projected to increase steadily in future years, which will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, in view of
the above and the limited resources of the country, the Bank's assistance to
PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same reason, local cost
financing by IDA is justified.
21.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of all
the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds. In
response, some of the foreign banks wbich were nationalized froze
substantial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately
after the promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British
firm of accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the
nationalized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was
submitted to the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached
soon after with three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were
finalized with three additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in
late 1977, early 1978, and in 1979 and with a development finance company in
mid-1978. Contacts with other former owners have been maintained with a
view to reaching mutually acceptable settlements. Dialogue with debtors
has, however, been very slow since they have only recently responded to the
Government's efforts to settle claims. The Government professes its desire
to reach a mutually satisfactory solution with all claimant companies, and
has expressed its willingness to consider such settlement outside the terms
of the 1969 Nationalization Law.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
key fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition new sectors being examined are industry
and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to
be an integral feature of IDA projects of PDRY.
23.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member
of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about
two years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to
PDRY for this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed
again in 1978. To date, IDA has had 15 operations in PDRY, for a total
commitment of $84.2 million. Of this total, $20.3 million has assisted the
1/ Part II is substantially the same as in the President's Report for the
Third Highways Project, which is to be considered by the Executive
Directors on the same date as the proposed project.



transport sector, $27.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $14.0
million the power and energy sector, $9.4 million the education sector, and
$13.2 million the water supply sub-sector. Project implementation in PDRY is
characterized by delays and in some cases cost overruns. Common causes of
delay have included the time required to arrange the required cofinancing,
difticulties in recruiting and retaining foreign advisors and in attracting
toreign contractors, inexperience in project mobilization, and in recent years
shortages of both skilled and unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost
all cases being properly implemented even if delayed, and the difficulties
faced are mitigated to a considerable degree by the generally positive
attitude of the officials responsible for project implementation. Lessons
learned from experience in earlier projects are being taken into account in
our follow-up projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits
as ot March 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  A
Thira Highways project and a water supply project for the town of Al Mukalla
will be presented to the Executive Directors in FY81. A second power project
is under preparation, as is a third fisheries project, a third education
project and a follow-up agricultural project in Wadi Hadramawt. Project
possibilities in health, industry and a second petroleum exploration project
are also under consideration. As in the recent past, the costs of future
projects are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA can
provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other
development agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From
FY71 to the present, IDA has been successful in securing through its projects
about $78 million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $0.7 million,
Kuwait Fund $15.3 million, Arab Fund $34.2 million, Islamic Development Bank
$5.5 million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16 million, OPEC Fund $3 million, and EEC $3
million), thus helping to increase the inflow of development aid to the
country.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND PROJECT AREA
General
25.      From independence in 1967 to the present, agriculture in PDRY has
been largely for subsistence, with a modest marketable surplus in some crops
sufficient only to supply part of the needs of nearby villages and towns.
PDRY is heavily dependent on imported foodstuffs. It is estimated that up to
1975, the agricultural sector, including fisheries, contributed only about 20
percent of GDP, 87 percent of exports, and employed about 50 percent of the
economically active population. In 1979, the most recent year for which full
information is available, the sector contributed 14 percent of GDP, 92 percent
ot exports and about 50 percent of total employment. About 65 percent of the
PDRY population of 1.9 million live in rural areas.
26.      PDRY's generally mountainous and desert topography, its arid climate
with high temperatures and little precipitation, and the absence of perennial
water streams limit agricultural production to some 12 scattered wadis



- 8 -
comprising the total arable area of about 110,000 ha or about 0.3 percent of
the country's land surface. Of these 60,000 ha are under spate (flood)
irrigation and about 16,000 ha are under well irrigation. The area actually
irrigated by spate shows high seasonal variation due to the uncertain rainfall
and limited control of spate waters and is generally about 40 percent of the
total available area. In 1979 only 40,000 ha, of which 15,000 ha were double
cropped, were cultivated. Forty-eight percent of the cropped area was in
grains, 18 percent in fodder crops, 18 percent in fruit and vegetables, and 8
percent in sesame.
27.      The performance of agriculture has been disappointing, partly because
the Government has held down the controlled producer and consumer prices of
most major commodities. Partly as a result of this, and as a result of rising
wages and levels of remittances, food imports including UN commodity
assistance, have increased steadily and in 1979 reached an estimated $126
million. A particular disappointment has been the declining trend of
production of wheat, sesame, livestock and vegetable oils, where increased
domestic output could partially substitute for imports. With alternative
sources of income farmers have had little incentive to cultivate certain crops
sold at low controlled government prices; vegetable and cotton production
declined dramatically while production of forage crops, whose price is
uncontrolled increased commensurately.
28.      Beginning in 1972, the Government has followed an active policy of
establishing state farms and cooperatives. Between 1975 and 1979, the
contribution of state farms and cooperatives to total agricultural production
increased from 10 to 20 percent and from 35 to 45 percent respectively. The
Government also controls producer and consumer prices of major agricultural
commodities, transport costs, and margins permitted on processing, storage and
handling.
29.      The Government is well aware of the relatively low efficiency of
agricultural production and the inadequate distribution and marketing system
tor both inputs and commodities. Storage and transport infrastructure are
deticient and severely hamper the distribution of fertilizers, plant
protection chemicals and seeds, as well as the marketing of agricultural
products. In aadition, the public agencies responsible for machinery
services, extension, credit, transport and distribution, and for input and
product price setting have neither reliable data required for planning, nor
the administrative capacity and technical skills necessary to set and help
achieve production and income targets for the sector. These factors, combined
with labor scarcity in rural areas because of emigration, have resulted in a
high cost food production and distribution system.
30.      The Government is now taking a variety of steps to improve
agricultural production and to provide better services to the sector. In
recent years, the Government has raised purchase prices on most crops, and
permitted farmers and fishermen to sell a portion of their output on the free
market. It is also examining policies and programs covering research,



extension, marketing and credit. Efforts are being made to extend the scope
of agricultural research at El Kod Agricultural Research Center, the only
agricultural research institute in the country, to establish a more effective
link between research and farmers and to expand the coverage of the extension
service in phase with IDA assisted agricultural projects. The Government is
also trying to streamline the credit mechanism for agriculture with the
closing down of the Agricultural Development Fund (ADF) in 1980, which
provided interest free loans, and the establishment of the new National
Development Bank (NDB) in 1981 which would ultimately take over credit
operations in the agricultural sector from the National Bank of Yemen (NBY).
The Government under the proposed project is for the first time making credit
available to individual farmers (see para. 57). IDA is assisting the
Government on various issues concerning agriculture, and in particular the
prices, taxation and subsidies issue through the study being carried out for
the Government by consultants under the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development
Project (768-YDR) (see para. 58).
Prospects for Growth
31.      The becond Five Year Plan, 1981-85, established a growth target of 9
percent a year for agriculture. The principal objective for agriculture is to
establish self-sufficiency in vegetable production and to meet about 70
percent of domestic food grain consumption. Under the Plan, YD62 million
($180 million) or 12 percent of total public investment is allocated to the
agricultural sector, with 70 percent for 17 irrigation projects to improve
9,600 ha of spate-irrigated and 6,200 ha of well-irrigated lands, 9 percent
for Machinery Rental Stations (MRS), 9 percent for state farms, 10 percent for
veterinary services, and the balance for two marketing projects. These are
ambitious objectives and implementation plans which imply overcoming the
difticult institutional and other constraints that have hindered the
performance of the agricultural sector in the past. As noted above some
progress has been made, but continued efforts will be required particularly in
the face of the growing manpower shortage.
Project Area - Wadi Beihan
32.      The project area is located 560 kms. northeast of Aden in the
north-western part of the Shabwah Governorate, where PDRY borders the Yemen
Arab Republic (YAR) and Saudi Arabia. It covers the subgovernorate of Beihan,
which includes three districts; Beihan, Nuqub and Ain with a total population
of 44,000. The area with 15 percent of the well irrigated land in PDRY
constitutes a sizeable proportion of the agricultural base. However, its
physical remoteness and communication difficulties have delayed development
efforts as Government has concentrated on more accessible areas first. The



- 10 -
area, characterized by an arid climate with low rainfall in two distinct flood
seasons and permeable non-saline soils, is linked to the rest of the country
by a 230 km non-engineered track which joins the main Aden-Mukalla paved road
along the coast at Naqabah, 330 km east of Aden. The proposed IDA credit for
a Third Highways project will help finance the construction of a two lane
paved road on 92 kms of the existing track from Naqabah to Nisab.
33.      The project area of about 21,000 ha is divided between two principal
wadis: the Wadi Beihan with an area of about 17,000 ha and the Wadi Ain with
an area of about 4,000 ha. In Wadi Beihan about 7,000 ha are classified as
suitable for irrigation and the balance as unsuitable. At present 2,300 ha
are equipped with well irrigation and 600 ha are cultivated annually under
spate irrigation, but the suitable soils exceed the water resources available
for irrigation. In Wadi Ain about 1,200 ha are cultivated annually under
combined well and spate irrigation and 400 ha under spate irrigation alone.
Water Resources
34.      The Wadi Beihan, its tributaries Wadis Nahr and Khirr, and Wadi Ain
are the main sources of surface and groundwater in the project area. Most
floods in these wadis are the result of rainfall in the plateau area of the
Yemen Arab Republic. The spate water has very low salinity and high silt
content, and in consequence is very suitable for irrigation. Aquifers exist
under the project area and are recharged by percolation from spate waters and
to a lesser extent by direct rainfall in the wadis.
35.      The introduction of mechanically-pumped wells 15 years ago has made
the extraction of groundwater much easier. There are now about 870 wells in
the project area. At the same time the area under the traditional spate
irrigation system has declined. This is because its maintenance is labor
intensive in an area where there are now labor shortages, and also because of
the uncertainties regarding rainfall and the performance of diversion dikes
during spates. This shift has had two effects which give cause for concern.
The first is that pumping of the aquifer, at a rate beyond its recharge
capacity, has resulted in a considerable drop in the water table in some
places, particularly those at the lower end of the Wadi Beihan. Water
availability has thus become a major constraint to agricultural development.
The second effect is that crop yields are declining in line with soil
fertility because of reduced delivery of silt to the fields which were
formerly spate irrigated. Water resources need to be conserved by controlling
drilling of new wells, by increasing the use of spate irrigation to reduce
groundwater withdrawals in the pump irrigated area and by increasing aquifer
recharge. Measures to assist this process are included in the proposed
project.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
36.      The most distinctive feature of agriculture in the project area is
the number of individual farmers, who appear to bring a special dynamism to
agriculture in Wadi Beihan. The large individual farming sector appears
responsive to price incentives. In addition, local flexibility under which
small groups of farmers are permitted to own pumps and agricultural machinery



- 11 -
and to sell a portion of their crop on the free market stimulates
agriculture.l/ There are about 3,300 individual farmers in the project
area, compared to less than 900 members of the four cooperatives and about 100
persons employed by the two state farms. Individual private farmers irrigate
about 2,700 ha mostly by well irrigation. Surveys undertaken during
preparation of the proposed project indicate that most farms are 1-1.5 ha,
with a very few as large as 3-4 ha. Family labor is used for farm operations,
with casual labor occasionally used for land preparation and harvesting.
Individual farmers pay a government tax of 10 percent equivalent on the gross
value of production on grains and oil seeds. They also pay a 10 percent sales
tax on other production if it is marketed through state channels. They are
also free to produce whatever crops they wish.
37.      There are two state farms which are located in Wadi Beihan.  They
have a total area of 630 ha and employ about 55 permanent and 45-65 temporary
workers. There are three cooperatives in Wadi Beihan and one in Wadi Ain,
farming a total area of 1,300 ha and with a total membership of about 825
persons. The cooperatives are broken down into small production units of 3-10
families who collectively own and operate a well. The cooperatives are
responsible for the implementation of the Plan cropping pattern and provide
services to their members covering maintenance of pumping equipment, collec-
tion, storage and distribution of inputs, marketing of surplus output, and
arranging for equipment from the local Machinery Rental Station (MRS).
Members pay a 10 percent service fee on the gross value of cereal and vege-
table production to the cooperative, a government tax of 10 percent equivalent
on the gross value of production on grains and oil seeds, and a 10 percent
sales tax on other production if it is marketed through state channels.
Local Institutions and Infrastructure
38.      The local offices of central government ministries are responsible to
the subgovernor (Mamur) of Beihan subgovernorate. The local offices are
thinly staffed. The agriculture department (the local branch of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform) has two employees, whose activities are
necessarily restricted to plan implementation, the collection of agricultural
statistics, and the processing of farmer's applications for procuring
equipment. The other government agencies represented locally are; the Public
Corporation for Marketing Fruits and Vegetables (PCMFV), which has a
collecting unit to market and transport to Aden the onions and potatoes, which
are usually the only crops surplus to local requirements; the Consumer's
Cooperative which is responsible for the distribution of imported foodscuffs;
the Machinery Rental Station (MRS) which is responsible for providing
machinery for land preparation and cultivation; and the National Bank of Yemen
(NBY) which provides commercial banking services and credit to institutions,
although not yet to individual private farmers. The Department of Irrigation
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) also has a section
in Beihan responsible for maintenance of the irrigation network. It is not
efficient and will be merged with the Beihan Project Unit (BPU) under the
proposed project.
1/ The Government recently extended this policy nationwide.



- 12 -
39.      A 22 kin rough hilly track links Wadi Beihan with Wadi Ain, and there
are a few feeder tracks in Wadi Beihan which are in very poor condition. The
town of Beihan is the only location with an electric distribution network, and
an elementary water supply. The project area has a regional hospital in
Beihan and seven community health units, 16 primary schools with an enrollment
of 3,000, and one secondary school in Beihan. There is no industry apart from
a few small repair shops and flour and sesame mills.
IDA Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
40.      To date IDA has financed four projects in the agricultural sector,
two for fisheries and two for development of irrigated agriculture in Wadis
Hadramawt and Tuban. Under the First Fisheries Project (370-YDR) in 1973, a
$3.5 million IDA credit has helped finance the construction of a fish cold
store and the building of 100 fishing vessels of traditional design. The
project is very close to completion. The building of the fishing vessels is
drawing to a successful conclusion, but the fish processing/storage plant,
although physically complete, is operating sporadically and at low capacity
for a number of reasons including improper installation of a submersible pump,
inadequate training of local plant maintenance personnel, and weak manage-
ment. IDA is working with Government to remedy these defects. Under the
becond Fisheries Project (932-YDR) in 1979, a $10 million IDA credit is
assisting in the construction of a fishing port and related facilities at
Nishtun, 1,500 kms to the west of Aden. The project was severely delayed
first by the search for cofinanciers to fill a financing gap caused by the
withdrawal from the project of the Libyan government, and then by difficulties
in recruiting a Project Manager to work in what is a very remote area indeed.
Implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily. Progress on both the Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (615-YDR) of 1976 (IDA Credit of $7
million) and on the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (768-YDR) of
1978 (IDA Credit of $5.2 million) has been generally satisfactory, after
initial delays in both projects resulting from difficulties in staff
recruitment in the case of the Wadi Hadramawt project and cofinancing
arrangements in the case of the Wadi Tuban project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
41.      The Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen requested
IDA assistance in 1978 to finance agricultural improvements in the Beihan sub-
governorate of the Shabwah Governorate. A general plan of agriculture
development in Wadi Beihan was prepared by consultants for the Government in
December 1978 with bilateral assistance from the Government of Libya. An
additional report on spate irrigation improvements was submitted by the con-
sultants in July 1980. FAO/CP and IDA missions visited the project area in
October 1979 and March 1980 to determine the scope of the project which was



- 1, -
ultimately prepared by FAO/CP in September 1980. The project was appraised in
October/November 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in April
1981. The Yemeni delegation was led by Mr. Al-Attas, Minister of
Construction, and included a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform. A staff appraisal report entitled "Wadi Beihan Agricultural
Development Project" (No. 3352-YDR of April 24, 1981) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions in the Credit
Agreement are summarized in Annex III. Maps of the project area are attached.
Project Objectives
42.      The project aims to: (i) increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 4,000 ha by rehabilitating the spate irrigation network and
improving the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and by providing
technical assistance, farm inputs and agricultural machinery to both Wadis
Belban and Ain; (ii) assess the surface and groundwater potential and confirm
the technical feasibility of attaining a stable groundwater level under the
existing groundwater usage pattern in Wadi Beihan by setting up a program of
hydrological observations; (iii) improve communications by constructing feeder
roads in Wadi Beihan and providing maintenance equipment; (iv) improve nutri-
tion of the rural population by producing a wider range and larger quantities
of crops and fruit for local consumption. The reason that the project has
more limited objectives in Wadi Ain than in Wadi Beihan is because of the
riparian issues involved, the resolution of which would require extended
negotiations between the governments of PDRY and Yemen Arab Republic (YAR),
and which would therefore delay a full package of improvements in the Wadi Ain
ror a long time. Consequently, the project was designed with this constraint
in mind.
Project Description
43.      The project would consist of:  (i) the establishment of a project
implementation unit, with management, engineering and agricultural extension
services; (ii) rehabilitating the spate irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and
controlling its bank erosion at vulnerable points; (iii) carrying out a wells
improvement program and on-farm works in Wadi Beiban; (iv) providing farm
inputs and equipment for the Machinery Rental Station and orchard
establishment in Wadi Beihan and Wadi Ain; (v) constructing feeder roads in
Wadi Beihan; and (vi) conducting hydrometeorological studies in Wadi Beihan.
44.      Project Management and Technical Assistance.  There is no government
organization capable of handling the Project implementation in Beihan at
present. Therefore a project implementation unit, the Beihan Project Unit
(BPU) assisted by five internationally recruited technical experts, would be
established to implement the project, and subsequently become the technical
and administrative arm of the agriculture department. The establishment of
the BPU under terms of reference and with an organization acceptable to IDA
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development
Credit Agreement,Section 7.01(a)). The technical experts would consist of a
technical coordinator, as senior adviser to the Yemeni project manager (54
manmonths), an irrigation engineer (42 manmonths), an extension specialist



- 14 -
(46 manmonths), a hydrogeologist (48 manmonths), and a credit specialist (18
manmonths), who in addition to implementing the project, would train their
counterparts to competently handle the project operations after their
departure. The project would also provide for overseas practical training
(200 manmonths) to the local technical staff in their job-related
disciplines. The Government has agreed that the BPU would prepare a detailed
training program satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1983, and would then carry it
out (Development Credit Agreement, SEction 4.08).
45.      Extension bervices.  Further dissemination work to improve farmers'
knowledge on crop husbandry and on the productive effects of agricultural
inputs at the field level is required in order to help develop agriculture in
the project area. To carry this out, an effective extension service would be
set up in the area, and the project would provide for construction of 15
extension centers and 3 stores, purchasing demonstration equipment and
materials and establisbing a pilot farm and a nursery.
46.      Spate Irrigation and Erosion Control.  Improved maintenance and
repair of the existing irrigation network (including the diversion dikes), and
using modern equipment to reduce the labor intensity of the work,is preferable
to constructing more permanent structures which have not yet been found
economically viable based on current limited knowledge of the Wadi Beihan's
hydrology. The objective of this component is to keep operational, at a
minimum expenditure, an irrigation technique which has the triple advantage of
providing additional irrigation water for crops, recharging the aquifer and
carrying beneficial silt to the fields. The project would provide equipment
and materials for implementing the spate irrigation improvement and erosion
control works in Wadi Beihan. The Government has agreed to finance
replacement equipment for spate irrigation works for that provided under the
project at intervals not exceeding six years starting from the date of initial
procurement of the equipment, in order to ensure continued maintenance of the
spate irrigation works (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.04).
47.      Wells Improvement and On-Farm Works.  With the current rate of
exploitation of the aquifer, the water surface level in the Nuqub Plain (where
extraction is maximum) is dropping and may recede by about 2.5 meters by the
year 1985, requiring deepening of about 88 dug wells by about 4 m each. The
project would provide credit to farmers in Wadi Beihan for deepening these
wells and purchasing 30 replacement pumping sets and pipes and pump shafts
required for well improvement. Land improvement works in Wadi Beihan
comprising 950 ha of land levelling and lining of water courses would also be
carried out to increase irrigation efficiency.
48.      Inputs Supply and Distribution.  Use of fertilizer, plant protection
chemicals and better seeds would be essential to improve productivity in the
project area. The project would supply the full requirement of fertilizer and
plant protection chemicals for the first year's use and incremental
requirements for the years two through five of the project. The Government
has agreed that following project implementation, it would ensure annual
procurement and distribution of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals in



- 15 -
an amount equivalent to at least those levels at which such inputs were
applied in the last year of project implementation (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.03).
49.      Orchard Establishment.  There is an acute shortage of and strong
demand for fruit in PDRY, and the climate in the project area is suitable for
growing citrus. The project would provide for cultivation of about 130 ha of
citrus to increase availability of fruit.
50.      Equipment for Machinery Rental Station (MRS).  In order to improve
the machinery services in the project area, 15 tractors with implements and
spare parts and a mobile workshop would be provided to the Machinery Rental
btation under the project.
51.      Feeder Roads.  About 16 km of gravel feeder roads would be
constructed in Wadi Beihan to connect important centers of population and
agriculture and to facilitate transport of inputs and agricultural produce
within the project area. In addition, road maintenance equipment would be
provided to the BPU to maintain the existing road between Nuqub and Beihan and
the gravel roads constructed under the project. The Government has agreed to
maintain the project roads (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.04).
52.      Hydrometeorological Stations.  One weather, four rainfall-recording,
and three river gauge recording stations would be established in Wadi Beihan
tor compiling hydrometeorological data. In addition, surface and groundwater
monitoring staff would be provided to observe the wadi's flow data, monitor
groundwater utilization and behaviour and compile data required to determine
the technical feasibility of stabilizing the groundwater level within
acceptable limits of aquifer drawdown.
Project Implementation
53.      Under an arrangement similar to that adopted for the Wadi Hadramawt
Project (Credit 615-YDR), the project would be implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform through the BPU whose management would include
internationally-recruited specialist staff (para. 44) and counterpart national
technical and administrative staff. Any technical posts of the BPU which, due
to shortage of trained personnel in PDRY could not be filled by Yemeni
personnel, would be filled by internationally recruited staff with adequate
qualifications. The Government has agreed to appoint the project manager, the
technical coordinator, the extension expert, the irrigation expert, the
hydrogeologist and their counterparts not later than March 31, 1982. The
qualifications, experience and terms of reference of all these persons would
be satisfactory to IDA. It would also fill intermediate level technical posts
with staff whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA not
later than September 30, 1982 (Development Credit Agreement, Sections 4.02(c)
and 4.03). The project would be implemented over five years. Project
implementation would commence in early 1982, and all civil works except for
rehabilitation of spate irrigation work and improvement of on-farm work, would
be completed by June 30, 1985. Rehabilitation of spate irrigation works and
improvement of on-farm works would continue until project completion which is
estimated to be December 31, 1986.



- i o -
54.      Regular monitoring of the aquifer and control of its further
exploitation to guard against its irreversible depletion would be an important
aspect of the project's implementation. Since government controls all well
drilling in PDRY through import licensing of pump sets and through prohibition
of drilling by any private party, the following procedures would be followed
to monitor and control exploitation of the aquifer. BPU, through its
hydrogeologist, would maintain a continuous record of the groundwater levels
and report their behavior to the Government and IDA through quarterly and
annual progress reports. The Government has agreed that the project
hydrogeologist would examine each proposal to install a new irrigation well in
Wadi Beihan and advise the Government on its likely effects on the aquifer.
Each proposal together with the hydrogeologist's report would then be sent by
the Government to IDA for its review and comments (Development Credit
Agreement, bection 4.09).
Project Costs and Financing
55.      The total project cost, exclusive of duties and taxes which are not
applicable to development projects in PDRY but including contingencies, is
estimated at $18.1 million, with a foreign exchange cost of $12.2 million or
67 percent of total project cost. It is based on December 1980 prices.
Physical contingencies of 10 percent on equipment and all civil works are
considered adequate due to the simple nature of the civil works involved.
Price contingencies on foreign and local costs are compounded annually at a
rate of 9.0 percent (1981), 8.5 percent (1982), 7.5 percent for 1983 through
1985, and 6 percent for 1986. Costs of all imported equipment and items
reflect current international market prices, while costs of locally
constructed buildings and feeder roads are estimated from costs of similar
items being constructed under ongoing IDA-financed projects. Works on
irrigation rehabilitation and erosion control have been costed as force
account works. The experts to be hired by the Government have been costed at
$6,600 per manmonth, including their travel and residential facilities costs.
This is an appropriate cost for individual experts in PDRY.
56.      The proposed IDA credit of $8.0 million would finance 44 percent of
the total cost. The Government would finance $3.9 million equivalent or 22
percent of the total cost, and project beneficiaries would contribute $0.2
million equivalent or 1 percent of the total cost. The outstanding balance of
$6.0 million or 33 percent of the total cost would be provided by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), with which the
Government has successfully concluded negotiations for a loan of $6 million
equivalent. The effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement and the appointment
by IFAD of IDA as Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD loan would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 7.01(c)). The project financing plan was discussed and
agreed at negotiations.



- 1 7 
On-Lending and Agricultural Credit
57.      The state farms, cooperatives, and individual farmers of the project
area would require short-term loans to finance farm inputs and medium-term
loans to finance well improvement, on-farm works and orchard plantations. The
Machinery Rental Stations (MRS) would require medium-term loans for purchasing
farm equipment. The National Bank of Yemen (NBY) which, until the new
National Development Bank (NDB) is fully operational, is the sole source of
institutional credit in PDRY, would be responsible for handling credit
operations under the project. It would be assisted by the credit specialist
in the BPU financed under the IDA credit. For this purpose, the Government
would on-lend $1.0 million equivalent of the proceeds of the proposed credit
and $2.5 million equivalent of the proceeds of the proposed IFAD loan to NBY
at an interest rate of 3 percent for a term of 12 years, including a two-year
grace period for relending to the beneficiaries (Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 4). Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and NBY, or its successor as the case may be, which is satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Development
Credit Agreement Section 7.01(b). The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government. NBY is successfully handling credit operations for the two
previous IDA financed agricultural development projects where the loans are
given to the state farms, the cooperatives and the MRS at interest rates of 6
percent for short-term credit and 5.5 percent for medium-term. The Government
has agreed: (i) that NBY, when relending, would charge the same interest
rates to these institutions in this project; (ii) that NBY would make credit
available to individual farmers at interest rates not exceeding 2 percent
above the rates charged to state farms, cooperatives and the MRS; and (iii)
that any general increase in NBY's interest rates would apply to all
subsequent project subloans (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4). The
difference between the terms of subloans and NBY's loan from the Government
would cover its administrative expenses.
58.      These interest rates described above are low relative to inflation in
PDRY which increased from 5 percent in 1979 to 12.5 percent (estimated) in
1980 and is projected at 8 to 9 percent for the next three years. But they
are considered acceptable for the following reasons. Interest rates in PDRY
are playing a small but increasing role in resource allocation within the
economy, and this project would increase the geographic spread of the interest
rate structure agreed on for the first IDA assisted agricultural project, the
Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (615-YDR), and also applied to
the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (768-YDR). The project would
also widen the range of institutions which finance their operations with
interest bearing funds by changing the financing mechanism for the Machinery
Rental Stations (MRS) and state farms in the project area. To date their
operations have been mostly subsidized by the Government through budget
allocations or interest free loans from the now defunct Agricultural
Development Fund (ADF). Under the project they would be required to operate
using interest bearing loans from NBY or its successor except for a 50 percent
subsidy to state farms for land levelling and on-farm irrigation improvement
works. Further opportunity to adjust the structure and level of interest



- 18 -
rates in PDRY would be available once the ongoing prices, taxation and
subsidies study financed by IDA under Credit 768-YDR is completed towards the
end of 1981. The Government has agreed that the recommendations of this study
would be reviewed by the Government and IDA within six months of its
completion, and that implementation of the agreed recommendations would begin
within one year of the completion of the review (Development Credit Agreement,
bection 4.10). The higher interest rate to be charged to individual farmers
is considered acceptable as individual farms in the project area are small and
numerous, the unit costs for processing loans to these clients would be higher
than to the cooperatives, and NBY needs a reserve against default since in
these cases there is no government guarantee of NBY, as there is in the case
of NBY loans to state farms, the MRS and cooperatives. In addition,
individual farmers do not pay cooperative service fees and are not obliged to
tollow Plan cropping patterns.
Recovery of Costs
59.      The existing direct taxation system on individual farmers and
cooperatives has been described in paras. 36 and 37.   There is a 10 percent
sales tax on all products sold through state channels. No tax is levied on
state farms. There is also a special sales tax on qat (a leaf narcotic), and
registration fees for tractors and trucks. There is no charge on land or on
net income and no charge for maintenance of the spate irrigation system by the
Department of Irrigation. The service fee paid by cooperative members is not
a tax nor is it a part of cost recovery.
60.      At full development, it is anticipated that about 80 percent of a
considerably larger volume of production that is subject to sales tax would be
marketed through state channels. In the case of alfalfa, the tax would also
be reflected through livestock sales. On the basis of these assumptions and
application of current taxation procedures, taxes would reach about $1 million
equivalent annually at full production.
61.      Twenty-three percent of total project costs, for technical assistance
and investment for erosion control, the hydrometeorological station and feeder
roads tor which no benefits have been quantified, are not considered eligible
for cost recovery. Of the remaining capital investment made in the first five
years, 23 percent would be recovered from beneficiaries as credit repayments
and through their direct contribution towards the project cost. Under the
prevailing tax system, the remaining 54 percent together with the full
operation and maintenance costs of the project would be recovered through
taxes over a 20-year period without interest.
Marketing and Prices
62.      Agricultural products produced in Wadi Beihan and Wadi Ain are either
consumed on-farm or sold through village markets for local consumption. At
full development the project area is expected to become self-sufficient in
wheat, sesame, vegetables and meat, and to have surpluses of approximately
1,500 tons of onions and garlic, 3000 tons of potatoes, and 2,000 tons of



- 19 -
citrus. These items would be marketed without difficulty since in 1979/80
PDRY imported 6,000 tons of onions, 6,000 tons of potatoes and 4,000 tons of
citrus. Moreover, domestic demand is projected to grow 3-5 percent annually.
The major constraint on marketing over the next ten years will continue to be
transport. Until good highway access to the principal markets on the coast is
completed (92 km of the Nisab-Naqabab Road is being paved under the proposed
Third Highways Project), the region will be at a disadvantage relative to
other areas.
63.      Prices are fixed for grains, fruit and vegetables, oils, oil seed and
all imported basic commodities such as rice, sugar, tea and coffee, and are
regulated for major imports such as fertilizer, seeds and petroleum products.
Farmgate prices for products and input prices are uniform throughout the
country, regardless of transport and distribution costs. A relatively high
proportion of output from the project area produced by individual farmers and
alfalta in particular, is not subject to government price controls.
Procurement
64.      Of the $3 million civil works included in the IDA-financed components
of the Project, the office buildings and staff houses at Beihan ($1 million),
which would be precast or prefabricated, would be suitable for procurement
through quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in Bank member
countries and Switzerland. The extension centers, stores and feeder roads
($1.8 million) would be minor works at scattered locations and constructed at
titfferent times and would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding. These works would be carried out under local negotiated contracts,
because civil works contractors in PDRY for this type of construction are few
and small. spate irrigation and erosion control works ($2.7 million) would
essentially be of a maintenance nature and would be executed over the entire
project period and are suitable only for implementation as force account
works. The project organization assisted by the experts would have the
competence to handle their proper execution. Equipment ($3.0 million) would
be procured through quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in Bank
member countries and switzerland, since the amount of equipment is small and
it is desirable that it be compatible with equipment already in operation in
the country, because spare parts and service facilities are very limited in
PDRY. Procurement of farm inputs ($1.0 million) would be done by the
Government when making its annual bulk purchases of such items using its own
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Tender documents and
awards would be reviewed by IDA to ensure that they conform to these
procedures and are satisfactory to IDA.
Disbursement
65.      Disbursements under the IDA credit would be made on the basis of 45
percent of expenditure for office and staff housing, extension centers, stores
and feeder roads; 35 percent of expenditures on all other civil works; 80
percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment; 45 percent of
local expenditures for imported equipment procured locally; 80 percent of
local expenditures for the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment;



- 20 -
100 percent of foreign expenditures for farm inputs; and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for experts, consultants and overseas training.
Economic Benefit and Rate of Return
66.      The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at 24
percent. However, this does not include the benefits from the feeder roads,
erosion control and river training, animal health and hydrometeorological
components which amount to 17 percent of the total project costs and for which
no benefits have been attributed. The main quantified benefit is the
incremental agricultural production estimated at $6.5 million equivalent,
which would result from the proposed project.
Beneficiaries
67.      The project would improve the incomes of about 820 cooperative
members and 3,300 individual farmers from $900 equivalent to $2,000 equivalent
per year per family on the average. The approximately 100 permanent and
temporary workers on the two state farms would benefit from the more than
doubling of net income of the state farms. Several hundreds of these farmers
who are dependent on spate irrigation and livestock production would benefit
from the improved spate maintenance and animal health services. In summary, a
total of about 5,000 families would benefit directly from the project. In
addition, 15,000 persons would benefit indirectly from the project through the
increased availability of vegetables, fruit and meat as well as through better
access to markets and social and administrative services once the feeder roads
are completed.
Risks
68.      The principal risks of not achieving the expected project objectives
are associated with potential drop of groundwater levels and delays in
implementing on-farm development related to price incentives and possible
shortfalls in the extension and credit programs.
69.      The risks associated with potential drawdown of the aquifer which
would result in higher cost of water and eventually in progressive reduction
in area irrigated, are minimized by the initially conservative approach to any
new well development in the project area (para. 54). Further, it is
anticipated that more efficient use of spate water on a larger area of both
spate and well irrigated lands would reduce pumping and increase aquifer
recharge. Should the hydrogeological studies conclude that pumping cannot be
sustained at current levels, steps would be taken to adjust areas and/or
cropping intensity to adjust to the lowered water supply. In either case,
none of the investment made under the project would be wasted though the
project benefits would be reduced. The sensitivity analysis indicates that
gross output could be reduced 25 percent before the economic rate of return
would drop below 12 percent. The probability of such a drastic reduction in
area is small. There is a probability that project implementation may be
slower than projected, but as long as the delays in the benefit stream are not
disproportionately larger there should be no significant effect on the
economic return. More serious would be an expenditure pattern as projected
without the expected on-farm production response. In order to deal with



- 21 -
unforeseen events of this nature, a strong management component has been built
into the project over its first five years. At the end of that time, the MAAR
would have a well trained team servicing the project area. The prices,
taxation and subsidies studies (para. 58) would assist the Government in
adopting realistic pricing policies in the agriculture sector which would
provide incentives to farmers to adopt technology packages proposed by
extension services.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
ot the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include the establishment
of the Beihan Project Unit (BPU) by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to
IDA, the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and NBY
which is satisfactory to IDA, and the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement
and the appointment by IFAD of IDA as Cooperating Institution to administer
the IFAD Loan (Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(a), (b) and (c)).
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 29, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Paae  1  cf  5
YE H PO- SOCIAL tIDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEK4 PDR                           REtEECE oaouIS (WEIGITED AVAES
LAND ARtA (THOUSAND so.                                                                    T C.)  - '975? .ECEWr ESTIIATE) -
IOTAT.           333.0                                                     IDDLE lCOK
AGRICULTURAL      93.3                               4SOT RECIERT          DIRTH AFRICA 6         XIDDU  NCOME
1960  'b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST      LArIN AMERICA 6 CARIBSEAS
CNP PER  APITA (USs                    ..          ..    500.0                 818.5                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAKS OF COAL EIVAUNT)    299.0          463.0      523.0               55.0                    055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. NP-yA  (NfLLIONS)        1.3         1.5       1.8
URBAN POPULATION (PEClEYr OF TOTAL) 28.0        32.1      34.3                45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJCTIOIO
POPUtATION If n.AR 2000 (?ILLIOUS)                      3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (NILLIONU)                        6.0
YEARS STATONARY POPUILATlOf .s ReACD                  2125
POPULATION D0NS1trx
PER SQ. KM.                       4.0         4.5        5.4                40.7                    28.
PER SQ. kX. ACRICLLTURAL LAS      14.0        16.0      19.0               398.6                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRIUCTUU (PEIRCZNT)
0-14 nIS.                        45.3        4A.1      46.7                 44.0                    41.4
13-64 US.                         52.0        53.2      50.7                 52.5                    56.7
65 YnS. 2AND ABOVE                  2.7         .7       2.6                  3.5                     3.9
POPULATION GROCS0  RATE (PERCEfr)
TOTAL                              1.9         1.9/c     1.9/c                2.6                    2.7
URBAN                              6.0         3.2       3.4                 4.5                     4.1
CRUDE BURT! !AT. (PER THUSAND)      54.0        54.0      48.0                 41.6                   34.8
CRWuE DEATH BATE (PR TBOUSAMD)      30.0        26.0      21.0                 13.7                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          3.5       3.5                  2.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLASN7NC
ACCEPOIS, AmUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
usERs (PERCENIT o0 KARRIED wol)    ..           .         .                  16.2
FOOD AND NURITION
1340( 0? 7030 PRtODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-LOO)        LOQ.0         92.0    103.0                 93.3                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENr OF
REQUIRENTS)                    84.0        91.0       91.0               103.6                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PEN DAY)          51.0        53.0     53.0                 69.8                    65.6
OF WHICH AMITRL AND P0ULZ       18.0        16.0      16.0                 17.5                   33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) .MOTALITY NATE     54.0        38.0      31.0                 17.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EECTAINcY AT SIRTH (TEAS)    36.0          40.0      44.0                54.4                    63.1
INYANIr ITALITT ATE (Pr  HOUSAD)   .              ..        .                   ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PENCtNT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..       24.0                62.5                    65.9
URBAN                               ..         ..       30.0                82.9                    80.4
RURAL                               ..         ..        3.0                45.1                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCEETA DISPOSAL (PIRCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       ..                   ..                    62.3
UBA                                ..          ..        ..                   ..                    79.4
RUAL                                ..         ..        ..                   ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIA              ..    32380.0   7411.0                 4688.7                  1849.2
POPULATION PER  URSING PERSON         ..         ..   1565.0                1751.5                  1227.3
POPULATION PR  ODSnTAL B3D
TOTAL                           1154.0       978.0    660.0                635.5                   480.3
URBAN                               ..         ..
RUAL                               ..          ..         .
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL ORD          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGt SIZE Of HOUSEBLO)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URJAN                               ..         ..         ...
AURAL                               ..         ..
AVEIAG? YD(3tl OF PERONS PEI ROOM
SOTAL                               ..         ..        .....
URBAY                               *. -                  *-.
MRUAL                               ..         ..
ACC2SS TO ELECTtICITY (PERCENT
Or DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      22.0/4
JUAN                                      ..        ..
AURAL                               ..         ..        1.6/d



- 23 -
ANNEX I
-ABLZ 3A                                                  Page  2  of  5
lMEN FPR - SOCIAl. mDICATOS DATA SUET
YEUI  FM                            RtEPEWCE GROUPS (WEIRTED AVERAIS
- 4ST RECENT !STI.7&  ) -
laDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          :DRTH AERICA S          M4DDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ZSTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA S CAISSNEA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTZD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PImARt:    IOTAL                  13.0        61.0      '7.0                  76.4                     99 7
MALE                 20.0        %.0        99.0                 92.2                   i01.0
IALE                  5.0       2Z.0        54.0                 59.9                    99*4
SECONDAY:  tOTAL                   5.0        10.0       26.0                 33.3                    3S.4
MALE                  8.0        15.0       39.0                 41.9                    33.5
FEMALE                2.0         4.0      13.0                  24.2                    36.7
VDCATIOBAL ENROL. (: 0? SECONDARY)   5.0          3.0       2.0                  9.8                    33.2
PUPIL-TEACHIl RATIO
PRDHARY                           29.0        31.0       30.0                 39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                         21.0        20.0       23.0                 25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITtRACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..         ..       27.1/.               39.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSEN ER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         9.0         7.0       7.1                  15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        54.0        54.0       59.0                139.6                   245.3
TV RECEIVES PER rIO4SAND
POPULATION                         2.5        15.0       19.0                 29.0                    84.2
N:ESPAPEK (-DAILY GNRAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PE
,UOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          1.0       ..                  22.2                    63.3
CLIA AMNUAL ATTEMNDAti  PU CAPITA   ..            2.4        ..                  2.C
LAsOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOL FORCE (TBOUSAND)       342.2       395.1      433.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   4.2         4.8        5.0                  9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTUR  (PERCNT)              70.0        64.7       60.0                 47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PECENrT)                14.6        17.6      21.0                  23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEN)
-OTAL                               28.2         27.4      26.6                 26.1                     31.5
KALL                                53.6         51.3      49.8                 47.4                     48.9
PENALE                               2.3          2.7       2.7                  4.7                     14.0
ECONOMIC XEPlNtDNCT RATIO              1.7          1.8       2.0                  1.9                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTtON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECZIVED ST
HIGHEST 5 PUECENT Ol NOUSRDLDS      ..          ..
NIGUEST 20 PERCENT OF 80US .OLDS    ..           ..
WONUT 20 P15RCENT Of EOUSEDOLOS     ..          ..
OWEST 40 PERCENT 01 NOUSENOLDS      ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTf INCOtE
LEVEL (US$ PE CAPITA)
NSJAN                               ..          ..        ..                 262.5
RURL                                ..          ..      140.0                140.4                   190.&
ESTIMATED RELATtVE POVETY INCOM
LzvEIL (M59 PU CAPTA)
URBAN                                .           ..      90.0                202.1                   474.0
RURAL                                .                    7.0                122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPUATION SEWW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PCENT)
UN                                         .                                  22.1
RURAL                                      .             20.0                 33.1
Hot available
Sot applicable.
/   The group averages for *ech Indicateor us population-vel8bted arithmstic means.  Coverage ot co.trtie
mong tbe indicators depends ou availability of data and is mot oifor-.
Ib   Unless othervia noted. data for 1960 refer to any year betwe  1959 ed 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for  osct Rscent etdactt. between 1974 ad 1978.
/c   Birth and death rates are crude eatimates.  TMe natural rate of 1nteaa  does not agree with obesrved
population growth rate*  /d percent of population; I* age 10 years   d rver.
bet recent eatimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all ocher data are as of Aprtil. 1960.
October, 1980



U,',
cs-I
0
i-I
(n
a                                                     'aaa'act.   sasa             ac'aaa    a-a             -.      -sa'   sa-5        at
L7C
ac-a  a.--'   a aa   a              a  c.a   a    a
aQ    5-4a5                             I                                                                                                            'a       .-a
hi                             I                                 -                                            
J                              .aaaaaca.aaa-naca   a a a.a
aaa.aaa..-acs   a-aaacaa,ta2                              saa
aaaaasa             a'.    a I
__                                                        2aacaa *'aaa                                      a '2
aaa.-g;c            a  a                                                    A aaaa           ao 1  22
>.saz,!.sa                  aaa                        a.-           a)j:?2$t:  ;':a, cs
aala'a'a                 I                 -,,aaas   ac-a-
.a           .acaaaaa-,aAa,-a,aaaAaa  a                                    tee a -    'a
aaas              ca.         a4:-,acc,.  a    a               'aac.,a
IU;tji                              -                                               4<W25g 
a 3       aaga                                                                                                                  a)
caaa,1aaa                a      aaa  ccc,                          caaaca    aaa   aaca                  A
-222 iI;iU:      -      a                               'a           aia                  2:    -,aa  aa-                             -'
a!"         a                                                                                                             aaaa   a-'
'a -a a   As Ac-at.a.-.5                          aaaacla                      aa[aa                   a a aaasaaaa
a a.aa-aaaa 'aaaaaa           eta                    -      ,a                                                      a         -
a 0-aac   aasaaa   aca                             a a a a a   -a                                     a A' a a        a a a
'a Vt   'ac.-a  aaasA     aasa'                            2cca                                                               -a
2                                                        a-,.a   caa ,a  a, -
-a  <a  "a                                          .-aac.-ac   2aaaa-a-aaa                          ca-,asc    a
a             as-ac. -"a                a caaacaaa                  a.-a a    caEac.-.ea   a
a!.   esec 'a.a -aa.a.c       'a -aaaa   aa            ac.aaa  aa      ,.   1                             aa a .-a-a-,.aa -'a a   a
Isa                     -aaaaa   aaa.saa        c  ,   ac a a:a'a'aaa               I                                                a
an a..      aaa.a.aaaa   a  -aaaa   a             so  a'aaa.a,a'a       as                                      a
a.-saac   asa  sac  a'a              .-,,aaa  sa'aa                sal-a                   a-a   cad
aaaaa   al                aca  -a  "a  aca'.,   a            t',saa  a                                          a-   aa  Cs
aaa..aa                 aaaaia2'a 'aa- a a a      'a-a a a  -,aa                   -a        [             as.    ;a-a;a.j
aa'aa.c'aa,,'aataae,aa.'a'a                       a,aa-.caa                aa                            c,cal
a-aa-a       C   a' a aaa-,aa   a.aa a -aa'aa'ac-a   a                                               aa.ccaa!-i
a     -a. caaaac              'a a a-.. a-aaa            aaaaa.  aa                                         a           '       I
la,ac                                       K
'aaaaaa.aaa,aaaa  A    asa   ajaa   cc a                              a               I                    I
aaaacaca  anaaa    a2..Icaac                     .2   'at.' a a          I                                 caaaaaa       4
a 'a a.    a   a  a a  'a  a-aaa    . -a a a      a    a a   a .a    a   r                            a  -.'      'a a   a    'a a
aaaa.a'a'a.  a             aaa,.aa-a,a          ,          I                           ..aaaal           a           1'
a,caaa.aaa  a aaaaa',ataacaa..              a  aa aa,aaa-a,aa                                           [                 'a
aaaaa- cc-a             aaaaaajsaa                      a1a
aaa.--a,aa-aaacA      acaaaaaa            a a a aaaa-a-'.a ,        4                               2             a aaaaa
a:c                               aaat  aaactc              a -aa,aaaa                                  a a a a a a a a a a'- Iaaa  -a--s a-as  ,  aa'c51
a             a.a a sat aaa            aca a-a a "--a      a                 ccc'"'-              [I
-cc a-aast acaaaaa aa e-aaaa a aaaaa aa'aa
0'          aaat;;2 saa5                                                                              1
a a a a a                     I'a'a
a  a. a                                                                                                                     a           a  a  a
a-a   -                  -a-se   aa              a         a
a   a   a a             'a aaa.  c-a                     a 'a
a  a  a 'a  a  a  a       a. a  a  a  a ',          a     -'  0
a   a a'  a a,'a  a.      a a icc    a a             a   a   -- a-                                  aa    a   a  aaaa-
a.-.-'   aa    a' a       a aaaas-                                                                 a ..'  -aaa  a, aa.ac              2
a-  .-, aa   aaac.aaaaaa a ca-a  a ta  a a a a aaa-acaa                 aaa  ''a  aa-.,.-a  caas a a--a-         a a    ca--a-a,-    as'.
cc..  ae,ac      5                         a a    a aaaaa  cc                   5 a a a a                aaaacaaa a ac  aaca  sa    aa-    5    'aaaa.a  5a
a          I               a--aaa a-a  aa-aa.a aa  a          .. A    a- a             a'aa-a a c.- ,.ac  a-caaa-a  -a-a-a a    ,asaa   at,  a
a              aa.aa a-a aa- cc.-,                 a a a a                  -a - ca  a a a a - aaaaaaaaat             a  a. a - a ca   a a a
a -- a a a a. a - a a a - a a               a 'a              a 'a a a a a a 'a a a a a a a aaacaca  a a a a a a a
- -aac  caa.a a a a                 a - a               -a---a-a-5,c -aaaa-acaa   a cc-
-               asaaca a   aaaa-  a                 aaaa                      aaca-aa,a  2      a-aa-a--aaaaaaa        -'"a-a--ca
A a a a a                             saaaca...aaa  a-,                    a a a aa a               a -a 'a - a  aaa-a,acaaaa      . a a    a a   a
a                           -aa 'aaaa   a  a.a  '5              - a a a a                  aaa-aa.-aaaa -a caa-ac, aa              a a-at aacaaa   - a
I                    aaa  a--a  aca0a,a-c                 ccaca                     aaaa   aaaat-a  c  aca  "c-a.-   aasAac a-,a<    a-a
aa -a .c a a-ac,                 .a a a a                  -accaaa  a aaca   caa.aaaaaa  a-a   a    cat  aaa2a   
.caa-aaa..a'.a'aa,a           .aaaa                    a a-eaaaa -a-a aa..aa'aaa  aa-.a.a   a-,
acaaa-a'a aaaa..aaa            a a a-                   -,aaaa-a-caa,ac-,  cae'a  a,  cc-a      a     aaa  a-
ac-a-ca                               z;tg!-22.                                                                                    -'as
a a a                aaaaca ,taa-a -'aaac-a       'a!a       a,caa    a    aaa
a,, a a a                             aaa  'ac a--c  aaa -- a              ,,a'a c 'at.             cc. '-a--a-, aesas  a acaca a a cc   aa  c.c a 'a-a--a-ca-
'a a aaa-a'a a as., 'a a   a        'a.-a -a    a             eaa,a'.-,.. aa-,aaa,c  as.-. as-a  a,-   a ac-sea--''  aaa a a.. acaa',  aa'a    - a  p  acaa.a  -aa aaa-.a  a-  a 'a'a   a-  A
a a. a,.,ica  a          a5  a a a                             a a -a a  a a A -a a 'a   a -a    a aa 'as'-   a a a
aa                 a 'a'a a a              a a a a a a.a'a a-a a a aa- a-ca- a-a a'   ca'aaac a taa  "aa a
a               aa                       -acc      -a'a            aaa-a
aaaca-aaa-a  ccc taa            a,a-., -a a             a ac-'aa  aac,c!a- ---2 a-' a'ac ass a-acaaaaacca           as
a-a- ,aca-ta                 ,       aaaa-a,a    a-ca  aaacssaaac                         as   a'"      a a-ac
aaaaac a a- a a                                            a-a aaal ,s   a a   aa..ta                            a-
a A a a   a -a           'a -a a- a a a -. a a ace,  a -a a                              aa-,.ac'a.aa  a a '-a a a a a sea-ac-cc  c    acaa-.,-a-aaa a
a- aaaaaaaaaaaa  a a a                                  a    -. aa a ca-a-ca a a a a a a a          a -  a
a a  as a a a a a                                      'a -a-a aaaaa  asca- sa-   aO,-aa,a  a    a-a asa-acaca..  a
aa-a-,a   a                                                                                     .-aaaa-caa.               lA;:2             a a a a-. a c-a aaai___
-a a 'a a a a a a    -                                'a.- aaa'a-aaa-aa.aaaa
Ataaaaca-aaaac                                      I-csa caca    t-,,a-aaa  a a ,'aa a a                       a- a.
aaaca'a2 a- as   a            a]                    a)      aaaaaaaa-aaa,aaca  aa-a  a a a   a..   a    at.a-'aca--a a--a  a a a a a a  -a--a c a a a a -c - -a a a
'a                              2                                  cJ
aa                       Ic-a-as  a--,acaa  a            I                  ,           aaa-a  a a a -aata  .aa a, a-as        a
:a12j-uaccaa
aa,a                                                                         a a - a -a a a a         a saacc-acscaaa  a a 'a a
a aaca'aca-,a   H             --     a as a a a.-,..  a-  a'aaa   aaaasscaaa a  a a
2    cI               -a  tea-                                  J                              a   a2casaa..laa  a    '''   a a-a at'a'a-aaa  aaac
a              2    -      ca22-22t               'a                                                               aaacflaaa
a5a5,Saaaa.acia    a                       a 'a a             -a-,   taaaaa.a-aa  'a                   I
a.a            ta:a<'a                            - a, 'a cc              "a-a-ca--- aca.ca,a'a  ca-ac aa..  aa   asaac-a.-t
2                                                                                ac-a               a a' 'a - a a a a a a a a a
I                             t  -  -aaa'aa,caca,a-,a   aa  aaaaaa a-aaa -a  ca-a-a  a-a   a-aaaaccaca"2!
-a                     J                                                                                a a a a 'a a -. a  _     a c--aa a a a
A                                               I         2!Za---'          p                 aaa-    a-a caca  244.'   aaa  aa-a  ac   asasa.a
a a 'a aa-c a              c'aaaaacaa a a a.a              a]                            aaaaaa-aa   t5'a   aaaaa'a-aa   'a,acA  a a a saacaa a 'a a
I                  caa.,aaa,a   sees-                                              a acaaaaaaaaca.aa'ac  a-aa a aa   cacaeaca a aaa a   a,
I          a   a  aaea'aa'ac  2                  S   a- ta'ac,aca a,
'acaa aaaaaa  aacaaa-a  acjafl    a aaaaaaaa a-a"c a -,acaa-a aaa - 'a -   aa-aaca aaaa   a   a aaa  a.aa ca-a Saa a
'a           2                a- a a- a            a aca  ea.aaaa  aaa,aaac a a   a        at.- 'a-    ca..a
g2.,22a::a22.  asia-as            ggg.-e..a                     'aaaa,-,.  aa-aaaaa                  a- aa22czta  -afl
-ac-c    aat,a,,aau-a.a   icaaas                                            aaa'aa'aaaa             a-a-ace                      aI                    aaaaaas
cc. a.aaa'ac a acacc-aaa'aaac          '1     a -c'aa'aac              aaaaacaa'a 5a,-a aaa..-.-aaaaec- sss  sa  - aaaaa'aac,.'a c-a
i!      ca             -.-aa-, at,-... act-ca a              'a 'aaaaaaaaa-a.ca-a
J       as a                             aacaaaaaaaaa :Aaaa2aadfla  aacaataaaa                ii  -    :'cacaa..aeaaaa,.aa..aa<cc
aaa  taac a              *",a,a   a]                            aa'a a a a as          2saaaaclaa-aa'                  aaaaa'aa                    -a



ANNEX I
-25  -Page 4 of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1978 V
USS mln        %
GNP at market prices                       792         100
Gross Domestic Investment                  240          30
Gross National Savings                     171          22
Exports of goods & NFS                      93          12  Annual Rate of Growth (V)
Imports of goods & NFS                    427           54       (constant prices)
1973-78           1978
GDP at factor cost                        497          100        7              14
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries               78          16        3              -1
Industry 2/                           62          12       10               27
Infrastructure 3/                    126          25       16               12
Trade, Real Estate, Finance          124          25        7                3
Other Services                       107          22        4               14
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)               1974/75 -   1975 4/  1976   1977    1978
Total receipts  /                         23.1       17.0       32.1   43.4    56.0
Current expenditures                      27.6        25.6     39.2   47.4    61.4
Current deficit                           -4.5       -8.6      -7.1   -4.0    -5.4
Development expenditures                  20.7       19.1       39.2   56.9    59.9
Overall deficit                          -25.2      -27.7    -46.3  -60.9   -65.3
Borrowing from Banking System             11.4        10.1     15.6   18.5    17.4
Other Assets and AccountsY6              -15.0        12.5     -2.0   -1.4    -6.7
External Financing                        28.8         5.1      32.7   43.8    54.6
MONEY AND CREDIT                             1974       1975      1976   1977    1978    1979
(million Y.D., Outstanding, end Period)
Money and quasi-money                       55         67        98     140      168      217
Bank credit to Government                   24         37        62      72       87      110
Bank credit to non-Gov't. Sector -          19         24        31      49       59       61
1/ Provisional.
2/ Includes petroleum refining and mining.
3/ Includes electricity and water, construction, transport and communications.
4/ The fiscal year was April 1-March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became April 1-
December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
5/ Includes current & development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
6/  Incltides the change in the Balance of the Development Fund (- = increase).
7/ Includes public sector agencies.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)        1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Exports /1                                   8       8     26      25      18
Imports /1                               -190   -179   -268   -364   -387
Trade Deficit                            -182   -171   -242   -339   -369
Non-factor Services, net                    22      17     24      18      17
Factor Services, net                        48     59    122    187    265
Workers' Remittances                    (41)   (56)  (115)  (180)  (258)
Investment Income                       (7)    (3)    (7)    (7)    (7)
Current Account Deficit                  -112    -95    -96   -134    -87
Official Transfers                           1      10     46      55      36
Official M & LT Capital, net                60     47      72      70      94
Cross Disbursements                     (60)   (48)   (74)   (71)   (95)
Repayments                               (-)   (-1)   (-2)   (-1)   (-1)
Miscellaneous Capital (incl. errors
& omissions)                            43      25       5      28     43
Change in Official Reserves
(- n increase)                           8      13    -27    -19    -86
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)          68     55      82    101    187
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                Average 1977-78
USS Million Percent
Fish & Fish Pr-ducts                             12          60
Agricultural                                      5           25
Industrial                                        1           5
Other                                             2          10
20         100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1979)                US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                   915
Of which:  Disbursed                             372
Debt Service Payments in 1979                         5
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods   2/
and Services, Including Remittances) -           1.4 Percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971              As of December 1971          From February, 1973 todate
US$ 1.00 - YD 0.42                  US$ 1.00 - YD 0.38            US$ 1.00 = 0.34
YD 1.00 - USS 2.40                  YD 1.00 - US$ 2.61            YD 1.00 - US$ 2.90
/1   Net of re-exports.
/2   Based on preliminary estimates of exports of goods and services.
April 19, 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX II!
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1981)
-   Million ----
Amount
Credit                                                              (less cancellations)
No.          Year    Borrower        Purpose                      IDA       Undisbursed
Two credits fully disbursed                                        5.1
370-1 YDR       1973      PDRY       Fisheries                     1.6              .03
494-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Education I                   5.4            0.8
560-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Highways II                  15.5            1.4
584-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Aden Port Rehabilitation    3.2              0.9
615-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0              1.3
768-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj        5.2            3.9
829-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Power                         5.0            3.5
865-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Education II                  4.0            4.0
932-  YDR       1979      PDRY       Fisheries II                 10.0           10.0
1038- YDR       1980      PDRY       Aden Water Supply            13.2           12.4
1050- YDR       1980      PDRY       Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0              8.9
Total                                  84.2           47.13
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                  84.2
Total undisbursed                                     47.13
NOTE: Exchange adjustment not included.
1/    This Annex II is identical to those in the President's Reports
for the proposed Third Highways and Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation
Projects.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
CR. No. 370-YDR       Fisheries Project:  $3.5 million Credit of April 12,
1973; Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6
million Supplementary Credit of February 6, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is now nearing completion. The major component, the fish
cold store and freezing facility at Mukalla became operational, after a
two-year delay, in June 1978. The delay was primarily due to the difficulties
encountered in finding a suitable project manager and cost overruns requiring
supplemental financing, which was approved by the Association in January
1975. The smaller receiving station at Shihr is now fully operational, and
the 100 fishing vessels financed under the credit have all been delivered.
CR. No. 494-YDR       Education I Project:  $5.4 million Credit Approved July
12, 1974; Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit is assisting the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and in meeting priority manpower
needs. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but is about two years
behind appraisal estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit
effective and in the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant
architects; (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting
design completion; and (iii) shortages of labor and materials which have
delayed construction. Five of the ten institutions, including two previously
completed extensions, were ready for the 1980-81 academic year. The remaining
institutions are expected to be completed by mid 1981. About 95 percent of
the equipment has been received, and together with furniture, is being
delivered and installed in project institutions as they are completed. To
permit final disbursements for construction and to allow the technical
assistance program to operate using credit funds, the Closing Date has been
extended to December 31, 1981.
CR. No. 560-YDR       Second Highway Project:  $15.5 million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Econo-
Development. Since international competitive bidding for the construction
element of the project produced no responsible bids, arrangements were made
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which is
assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the project
area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of domestic
skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction
equipment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about three years behind appraisal estimates. However,
considering these difficulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 60 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 25
percent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of
rock that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works
needed because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction
equipment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have
been procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic
studies and the final engineering of the Naqabab-Beihan roads. Consultants
(Sotechni-Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the
overseas training program has been completed with six Yemeni engineers having
completed 9-12 months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany).
The project is expected to be completed by December 1982.
CR. No. 584-YDR        Aden Port Rehabilitation Project:  $3.2 million Credit of
September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development is assisting the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-
handling, workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b) rehabili-
tation of the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c) technical
assistance. All equipment except some navigational items have been received
and most are already in use, although there has been a substantial delay in
the rehabilitation of the slipway. A cost accountant and a marine engineer
have been appointed. There was a savings of $850,000 in the purchase of
floating craft and IDA has agreed that this can be used to purchase containers
handling equipment required for the port.
CR. No. 615-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8,100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, cons-
truction of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision
for a date packing plant and a rural water supply component, and funds for a
hydrogeological survey and feasibility study for increased groundwater use.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
The date packing plant has been completed, the rural road component is
progressing satisfactorily, but the pace of village water supply works has
been slow. The hydrogeological survey and feasibility study have since been
completed and form the basis for a second phase project aiming at intensi-
fication of irrigation on about 3,700 ha.
Initial problems, with staff recruitment and retention, delayed
execution of the project by about two years. High cost of labor, inefficient
tractor services, marketing restrictions, and pricing policy of the agricul-
tural produce have been impediments to increased production. Government has
recently taken steps to improve its agricultural pricing and subsidy policy,
and has also contracted a consultant's study (financed under Credit No. 768-
YDR/Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project) on agricultural prices, taxation and
subsidy with a view to improving these policies. The increased availability
of the agricultural machinery purchased under the project and improvement in
pricing and marketing policy of the agricultural produce would assist in
achieving the project's objectives.
CR. No. 768-YDR       Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:    $5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project seeks to improve agricultural production on cooperatives
and state farms through an increased use of inputs, improved practices and the
construction of an improved groundwater irrigation network. Inputs and farm
machinery are to be provided through credit. An expatriate project manager is
under recruitment but all other technical assistance staff is now on post. A
water management study is nearing completion and an agricultural prices,
taxation and subsidy policy study is underway. Construction of a village
water supply scheme is well advanced and survey work for feeder roads was
started. The Arab Fund, which cofinances this project, approved its loan of
$6.1 million in February 1980. With a total area of 7,000 ha, the project has
36,000 principal beneficiaries, while the water supply scheme would benefit
about 6,000 persons.
CR. No. 829-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Power Project:  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date; September 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks.
Institution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants'
services for a tariff study, and a power development study. Soil testing of
the project site has been completed, the contract for equipment and materials
has been awarded and erection of the plant, although one year behind schedule
because of skilled manpower shortages, is underway. The tariff study is
completed and discussions with Government on implementation of its
recommendations as well as on the power company's manpower development program
are at an advanced stage.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
CR. No. 865-YDR       Education II Project:  $4.0 million Credit Approved
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in establishing tbree
vocational training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently needed skilled and
semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an industrial,
an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Arrangements for fellowships to be financed from
bilateral funds have been completed. Construction of the commercial VTC in
Mukalla started in June 1980, about 11 months behind the appraisal estimate
due to delays in designs and tender, and is now expected to be completed in
summer 1982. With IDA's approval, two existing schools are being converted
into agricultural and industrial VTCs in lieu of constructing two new VTCs.
These conversions should be completed by mid-1982. Furniture and equipment
are under acquisition. Satisfactory curricula have been developed.
CR. No. 932-YDR       Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: April 3, 1981; Closing Date; June
30, 1987
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist the Ministry of Fish Wealth in fleet
management, cold store operations and export marketing; and a national study
to assess nutritional deficiencies for a possible future IDA-financed
project. Bids were invited for the construction of the port and related shore
facilities, were opened on April 7 and are now being evaluated. Construction
is expected to get underway within the next 6 months.   The Government has
appointed the project manager, who is a well qualified individual.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
CR. No. 1038-YDR      Aden Water Supply Project;  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: Marcb 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Initial implementation proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1050-YDR      Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November
19, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning of
the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration
Department's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and
(b) technical assistance to PED for project management services, data
evaluation to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training
of PED's staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently
attractive to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. Initial
implementation proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX III
(Page 1 of 2 pages)
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by country to
prepare project:                           3 years 6 months (May 1977 to
November 1980)
(b)   Agency responsible for
preparation:                               FAO/CP
(c)   First Bank mission to consider
project:                                   October 1979
(d)   Appraisal mission :                        October/November 1980
(e)   Negotiations completed:                    April 1981
(f)   Credit effectiveness:                      By December, 1981
section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions in the Credit Agreement
1.    Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)   establishment of the Beihan Project Unit (BPU) by the Government
under terms of reference and with an organization acceptable to
IDA (para. 44);
(ii)  execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and National Bank of Yemen (NBY) which is satisfactory to IDA
(para. 57); and
(iii) effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement and the appointment by
IFAD of IDA as Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD
Loan (para. 56).
2.    The Borrower has agreed that:
(i)   the project manager, the technical coordinator, the extension
expert, the irrigation expert, the hydrogeologist and their
counterparts would be appointed by March 31, 1982, and the
intermediate level technical posts in the Beiban Project Unit
(BPU) would be filled with staff whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to IDA by September 30, 1982 (para.
53);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
(Page 2 of 2 pages)
(ii) NBY would charge cooperatives, state farms and the Machinery
Rental Station (MRS) interest rates of not less than 6 percent
for short-term loans, and 5.5 percent for medium-term loans;and
would make credit available to individual farmers at interest
rates not more than 2 percent above the rates charged to
cooperatives, state farms and the MRS; and that any general
increase in NBY's interest rates would apply to all subsequent
project subloans to cooperatives, state farms, the MRS, and
individual farmers (para. 57);
(iii) it would review with IDA the recommendations of the study on
agricultural prices, taxation and subsidy policy within six
months of its completion and commence the implementation of the
agreed recommendations within one year of the completion of the
review (para. 58);
(iv)  it would finance replacement equipment for maintaining spate
irrigation works at intervals not exceeding 6 years (para. 46);
(v)   following project implementation it would ensure annual
procurement and distribution of fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals in an amount equivalent to at least those levels at
which such inputs were applied in the last year of project
implementation (para. 48);
(vi)  the project hydrogeologist would examine each proposal to
install a new irrigation well in the project area and advise the
Government on its likely effects on the aquifer. Each proposal,
together with the hydrogeologist's report, would then be sent by
the Government to IDA for its review and comments (para. 54), and
(vii) the Beihan Project Unit (BPU) would prepare a detailed training
program satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1983, and would then
carry it out (para. 44).



IBRD 15505
/,                          y46'00'        FEBRUARY 1981
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT  7  ,  
PROJECT                                          , -
_111l         CULTIVATED  (IRRIGATED) AREAS                     /ye
. _    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DIRT ROADS, TRACKS
0      TOWNS AND VILLAGES
=           WADIS
0  2   4  6   B  10 K,lomete,s
/*eb           Sar,                     $      A     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Mukanah
g   =  ?     \                           A4f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~saylan
15'000                                                                                                                                                                 15 00
gFShaq,r                                                      Al HO
!   Suh;            /                          ArRuk~k bah 4                                                              f |
I
|       <     A~~~~~Hasim BediAlM                              a/
|   X  w  t  }elhan al (la~~~~~~~~~~~t   sab
;Hadajah
Al Akhf /
\)      tev        g          5? ~~~~~~~~~Salahah
(                                                 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h, snap h- a - srsosp,,p-oby ssn
.  /Worlda nk sff e-c1ivsly fos
/  he convennce of the readers of
\ J   LakhfO   /h. //.a t. thdreg                                                               wh,ch it eolsahed
Y E M E N  ) \@ ,7i,t, X (oO/Badi / \, rorar¢rnynemem~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as ses,os oran ndoreren
A   R   A   B            /           1        I-I,sh al Ghurabah  .'         /_______________________________ d_-
¢   jX   </oNat         ,                                  |'t    j    ~~~~~~           SAUCDI ARABIA    .
REPUBLIC                   |            ("                                                                                                          1 /   /  " /
IB /    /'-  - l   if -@
Y E M  E/N                                                                                                            y   t-y   y  YEME  / -AEPiE
/                                          ARAB                         OEM~~~~~~~~~SAD   AREPBIA
YEE                j YEOPENS
--DMRPO
//~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA  RPBl-,;,.    EE
/  /  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
45~~~~~~~~~~~~~3~~~~~~~/ ~ ~






400
-o -,                BA4RAI
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                            '§                             TAR
SAUDIARARI    LA.
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area  of Project Works                                                                          200      !V                       J
SUTN/  X         ' OFb. 1As MSN
0     1      2      3      4      5                                           5.1\                                               ArfAh1,
r    MEN        CH, YE   E
?                                                                                   JD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' BOUTI
Kilometers                                                                                ETHIOPIA
A, R.kb,,h       e i r                   _ >              gTlmnahbtatz                                                  FER
0                                                                                 MT    bt t-A M okoah';K
/~~~~~~~~~~~                                               I'                                  WELL TO BE IMR/E
^ ~~~~~Haquinah   e9ssS7marn
rz |t Al mA **Uthayme,,,   t0                                                           INLETSa
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 -                                                                    --\\WDI
FFEDER ROAD\.O Q
t =  Muqls   11/od/                >                                       *        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE FARMS                          Al Mukanah'
----          Al M-                                                                WELLS TO BE IMPROVED
Al"..r    _  INLETS
& h.n -. at-c                                                                  WEIR
=/ / g' f -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WADIS
0 _  t                                          IRRIGATED AREAS
0 o                                                                            0        TOWNS AND VILLAGES                               1000100,00/lfo,OOdClO of
0    .       0dh                                                                                     AIRFIELD                                         To d0l,O SrS6  hed      m l
*1 Rawdah  0  g  2  3  4  5  @TRACK                                                                                 Woo eIk Old               m C
1O.f     /                                  K,1001ef01                                             -    -        INTFRNATIONALBOUJNDARIES                             00100090/0/01NA LR IE_
y                                                                                                                                                  zo° (JI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1000OOO1000010- 7
Salahah                                                                                                                                                                          _ 0
SoIoooh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o






IBRD  15175
TURKEY                         U    RDEMOCRATICREPUBLICOFYEMNU S S                                                                                   50R                                                                       AUGUST 1980
SY NI AN''T                                                 PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LIA  REP       i
AQ\  IRAN   2 20' I DA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY SECTOR
NEOtR2>',5  '                                                          PROJECTS
\0             OuT     RAIN? '-                                -i~     Agriculture
ARE         SAUDI        E                                          4'   Fisheries
-   ARABIA           -                  O                            Petroleum  Exploration  Assistunce
SUDAN                                                                A       Educanion                                                                                          ,s,       
(      ETH  \9:'I    AU! IV                                     -     Highways                                                                       Jr5          .-r-_                     5
JEtHioiu   '                                                           Power Stations                                                         --u-I
Tronsmissnon  Lines
U  Water Supply
4      Port Deuelopment                               /                   -                       -'
s>)  /\\"\°; D   ;\0';5hjrn              ---I R,rn u 
| =   1    0 ;t PROJECT:                 YEAR APPROVEYO                                 /                                   -'a
HIGHWAYS 1                     1971                       i                                                                                                                      GHAYHAH
FISHERIES 1                     19731                                                                                                                                        *ta
16'                     EDUCATION 1                     1975 
HIGHWAYS 0                      1975                          /                                                                                                             Nishtu.
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION       1976                                           H=
WADI HAGRAMOUT AGRICULTURE    1976
1>1          ~~~~WAGII TUBAN AGRICULTURE      1979                                                       4or
WGHADRAMOUTOTWER             1979
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING &      1978
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          -E79                                                            -     i       i                  :                    -5i -
MiU,C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -EITING FIEATURES~
PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT  19BO    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~iT                                                Goveneorate Capials5
| i ~~~~~~~ASSISTANCE                       ]S0Beb__ =,hr .  d
AOEN WATER SUPPLY  1980                                                                                                           No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii trltinal copitol
- 05    Rivers and Wadis
;& ; Aa Y  F M  E IN >i .A  R jz   j = { ; ;:                                                                                                                                        :' t :: i;0 -Z A    10ao P, E  t  ;  :  Primary Roads
QU   --                      Secondary Roads
Gover~nonate Boundaries
Irsterrational Boundaries
t / Ke                                                                                                                                                          K3r LQMETERs a ,, :, >0g,, :: X: : 0 ; V : : 0 1 210
trStyetear  ;  -  Q;            f L'0 :DX : X \ o 7; -g==    =   Wn =--IOM              =R
50-~~~~~~~~~urnr't',pTiiap55,''y'si'5~5'Ti~WIOik505



