Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    FILE  COPY
Report No. 3352-YDR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 24, 1981
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Dinar (YD)
YD 1 = US$2.90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                       British/US System
1 millimeter (mm)                                      0.0394 inch
1 meter (m)                                            3.2808 foot
1 kilometer (km)                                       0.6214 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)              =                0.3861 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                                         2.4711 acre
1 cubic meter (m3)                                    35.3147 cubic foot
1 million cubic meter (Mm3)           =              810.7000 acre foot
1 kilogram (kg)                                        2.2046 pound
1 metric ton (mt)                                  2,204.6000 pound
I liter per second (1/sec)            =                0.0353 cubic foot per second
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF            =        Agricultural Development Fund
BPU            =        Beihan Project Unit
CIF            =        Cost, insurance, freight
FAO           =         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nation's
FAO/CP         =        FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
GDP            =        Gross Domestic Product
GNP            =        Gross National Product
HYV            =        High Yielding Variety
ICB           =         International Competitive Bidding
IDA           =         International Development Association
IFAD          =         International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAAR           -        Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MRS            =        Machinery Renting Station
NBY            =        National Bank of Yemen
NCFT           =        National Company for Foreign Trade
NCHT           =        National Company for Home Trade
PCLT           =        Public Corporation for Land Transport
PCMFV          =        Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruit and Vegetables
PDRY           =        People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PWD            =        Public Works Department
SOE            =        Statement of Expenditure
SOGREAH       =         SOGREAH Consulting Engineers, France
UNDP           =        United Nations Development Program
YAPR                    Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF PDRY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKG]ROUND ..........................................                          1
A.    Project Origin  ..................................                        1
B.   'Country Background  ..............................                        1
C.    The Agricultural  Sector  .........................                       2
D.    Government Policy and IDA Lending  .... ...  ......                       4
II.    THE PROJECT AREA  ....................................                          5
A. Location.                                                                   5
B.    Resources  .......................................                        6
C.    Farm Size and Land Tenure  .......................                        8
D.    Infrastructure  ..................................                        8
E.    Project Approach  ................................                      10
III.    THE FPROJECT ..........................................                        11
A.   Design Features  ..................................                      11
B.    Costs and Financing Arrangements  ....                 .............    16
C.    Procurement and Disbursement  .....................                     19
D.    Accounting  .......................................                     20
E.    Environmental Impact  .............................                     21
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ................................                       21
A.    Organization and Management  ......................                     21
B.    Project Implementation  ...........................                     23
C.    Operation and Maintenance  ........................                     26
D.    Monitoring and Evaluation  ........................                     27
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING  ....                  .............     28
A.    Present Land Use and Crop Distribution  ....                .......     28
B.    Development Constraints and Remedies  ....                .........     28
C.    Crop Production  ..................................                     29
D.    Marketing and Prices  .............................                     31
E.    Taxes and Cost Recovery  ..........................                     34
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Mian (Engineer), J. van der Veen
(Agriculturist:) and M. Nelson (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tabie of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
VI.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND PROJECT RISKS   .....    35
A.   Beneficiaries and Financial Benefits ....     ..........   35
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....................     ....................    37
ANNEXES:
1.   Description of Project Works
2.   Cost Estimate Details
3.   Supporting Tables and Charts
4.   Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
LIbT OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT:
3.1  Project Costs
3.2  Financing Plan
5.1  Present and Projected Crop Area, Yields and Production
5.2  Farmgate Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
LIbT OF SUPPOKTING TABLES AND CHARTS (Annex No. 3)
Table No.
1. Distribution or Farms, Farm Families and Wells per Category
2. Farm and Family Income from Crops - Present and Future Situation at
Full Development
3. Economic Kate of Return
CHART NO.
1.  Project Organization
2. Implementation Schedule
3. Crop Calendar, Main Crops
YMAPb
IBRD Number 15505, IBRD Number 15506



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
1.01     The Government of the People's Democratic of Yemen (PDRY) has
requested assistance from IDA to help finance an agricultural project in
Wadi Beihan and Wadi Ain which comprise the Beihan Sub-Governorate of the
Shabwa Governorate. A consulting firm was retained in 1977 by the Govern-
ment to evalual:e the potential for agricultural development in Wadi
Beihan. They submitted the General Plan of Agricultural Development in
Wadi Beihan in December 1979 and further studies to improve its spate
irrigation in July 1980.  On the basis of these studies and the information
collected by th-ie FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program's (FAO/CP) mission which was
sent to the area in March 1980, FAO/CP prepared a report dated September
26, 1980.  Thi; formed the basis for appraisal of the Project by the Bank
mission which visited PDRY in October/November 1980.
1.02     The proposed Project aims at increasing agricultural production
and farm incomes in the Project area by providing technical services, farm
inputs and agricultural equipment, and checking deterioration of existing
irrigated agriculture in Wadi Beihan by rehabilitating its spate irrigation
works and improving its groundwater irrigation system. It is the intent of
the Government to use the Project as a vehicle for establishing a struc-
tured on-going program of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(MAAR) in the Beihan Sub-Governorate.
B. Country Background
1.03     PDRY has an area of 334,000 km2 and a population of 1.9 million
(1980 estimate) growing at a rate of 2-3% annually. Population density
averages 5 persons per km2, but in terms of arable land the figure is
1,600/km2. Per capita GNP in 1978 was estimated at US$420 and growth in
GDP over the period 1973/79 was 6-8% per year in real terms. In recent
years, a major factor affecting incomes, availability of labor and asso-
ciated wage rates has been emigration to other Middle East and East African
countries. Between 1973 and 1979, remittances grew from YD 11 million in
1973 to YD 1083 million in 1979 (current YD) and were reported at YD 120
million in the first half of 1980, which represents an annual rate of YD
125 per capita (US$360).  A substantial amount of the remittance money has
gone into private housing which, taken with a growing demand for labor in
development projects, has created an acute shortage of all kinds of skilled
and unskilled labor. This shortage has been exacerbated by the phased
introduction between 1977 and 1980 of two additional years into the unity
(primary) school system which has effectively reduced the number of



- 2 -
entrants into the labor market over this period. As a result, an unskilled
laborer in the private construction sector can earn YD 4-6 (US$12-17) a
day. This has made it difficult for Government development projects to
recruit labor at the much lower Government wage rates of YD 2.5 (USW8) a
day.
1.04     The country has very limited proven natural resources.  Much of
the country is mountainous and the climate is arid and characterized by
high temperatures. Rainfall is infrequent and restricted to higher alti-
tudes. There are no perennial streams, thus, except for sparse seasonal
grazing lands, agricultural development must depend on exploitation of
groundwater and seasonally occuring flash floods (spates). While explora-
tion for oil and other minerals has been pursued for a number of years,
mainly along the northern border, no commercial discoveries have been
made. Government development policy for the past four years has emphasized
the agricultural, fishery and manufacturing sectors and provision of infra-
structure to integrate production areas with consumption centers. The
public investment budget allocated to productive sectors in the 1979-83
five-year plan 1/ is 26% to industry, 22% to agriculture and 7% to
fisheries.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.05     About 65% of the population in PDRY live in rural areas and in
spite of the accelerated emigration from these areas to cities and other
countries, the absolute number dependent directly or indirectly on agricul-
ture continues to increase. In 1977, the agricultural sector (including
fisheries) accounted for approximately 20% of the GDP and 15% of total
exports. The country is heavily dependent on imported foodstuffs, a number
of which may be at least partially substituted by domestic production,
notably wheat, sesame, animal and vegetable oils for which the import bill
has ranged between US$15 million and US$27 million annually over the past
five years.
1.06     Total cultivated area in 1979 was estimated at 40,000 ha of which
15,000 ha were double-cropped. Of the 55,000 ha cropped, 30% was in
sorghum and millet, 18% in fodder crops (primarily alfalfa and sorghum),
11% in fruit and vegetables, 10% in wheat, 8% in sesame, 8% in maize and 7%
in vegetables.  Total arable area is placed at about 110,000 ha; 16,000 ha
are under well irrigation and 60,000 ha are irrigable by spate water. The
area actually irrigated by spate shows high seasonal variability but is
generally only about 40% of that available due to shortage and limited
control of spate water.
1/ This plan has been revised and incorporated in the second five-year
plan for the years 1981-85 with 1979 and 1980 becoming transitional
years. The revision was done to conform with the recommendations of
the Council of Arab Economic Unity.



- 3 -
1.07     Since 1972, the Government has followed a policy of organizing
agriculture along cooperative and state farm lines. Between 1975 and 1979,
the contributior. of state farms and cooperatives to total agricultural out-
put increased from 10% to 20% and 35% to 45%, respectively. In addition,
the Government retained control over producer and consumer prices of most
major commodities, and transport charges and markups for processing, stor-
age and handling. Prices were frequently standard throughout the country
and were paid regardless of quality. As a result of somewhat disappointing
performance in agriculture since 1975 and increasing flow of remittances
and high wages which have become prevalent in many sectors, the Government
has modified its policy towards prices and the role of individual farmers.
With alternative sources of income, farmers had little incentive to culti-
vate certain crops as long as they were sold at controlled Government
prices which provided low return on the farm family's labor. Thus, many
types of vegetables virtually disappeared from the market. Farmers put as
much of their land as possible under forage crops (alfalfa, sorghum, etc.)
which could be sold on the free market, while some oi the cotton which
farm.ers on cooperatives were forced to plant, went unharveted. The Govern-
ment responded in 1980 by both raising the Government controlled purchase
prices of most crops and also by permitting cooperative farmers to sell 40%
of their output on the free market. Further, the Government is now
actively examining ways of providing better service to individual farmers,
particularly in the areas of credit and marketing. In addition, regula-
tions have been eased to permit those returning to the country to import
agricu:Ltural tractors and farm implements free of import duty.
Major Issues and Constraints
1.08     The principal area of concern to the Government is the relatively
low efficiency of agricultural production and the interrelated questions of
inadequate distribution and marketing of both inputs and commodities. This
is of particular concern because of growing dependence on food imports
where the country faces wide fluctuations in seasonal production due, in
part, to year to year variations in area and yields from spate irrigation,
and, where inadequate price incentives have resulted in shortfalls on pro-
duction targets.
1.09     The combination of inefficiency in production and marketing and
labor scarcity in many rural areas due to emigration have resulted in high
production and distribution costs. Storage and transport infrastructure
are inadequate, and public institutions responsible for machinery services,
extension, credit, transport and distributing inputs and products, and
fixing product: and input prices suffer from a shortage of reliable data for
planning and lack the technical and administrative capacity to manage the
complex set of analyses, services and regulations needed to establish and
achieve production and income targets for the sector.
1.10     The Government is fully aware of these constraints and is taking
steps to provide improved services in such areas as credit, extension,
research and marketing and to provide for a more flexible pricing system.



- 4 -
In 1980, the Government raised purchase prices of most crops for the first
time since 1977 and permitted farmers and fishermen to sell 40% of their
output in the free market. The El Kod Agricultural Research Center is
being developed as a National Agricultural Research and Extension Service.
The Government is also trying to streamline the credit mechanism in the
agricultural sector. The Agricultural Development Fund (ADF), which
provided interest-free loans, has been closed down and a National Develop-
ment Bank (NDB), which will ultimately take over credit operations, is
being established. The Government would for the first time provide credit
to the individual farmers under the proposed Project. A recently initiated
study of subsidies, prices and taxes under IDA Credit 768-YDR would further
help the Government in reviewing its agricultural policies related to agri-
cultural prices, taxation and subsidies.
D. Government Policy and IDA Lending
Government Plans and Policies
1.11     The second Five-Year Plan 1979-83 established annual targets of
overall GNP growth of 11% and agricultural growth of 12%. This plan has
now been revised and incorporated in the 1981-85 Plan. The new annual
targets for GNP growth and agriculture are 12% and 14%. The principal
objective for agriculture was self-sufficiency in vegetable production and
to meet about 70% of domestic food grain consumption. The 1981-85 Five-
Year Plan calls for a 40% increase in wheat output, 80% in other grains,
190% in fodder crops and 8% to 10% in the inventory of cattle, sheep and
goats. The total agricultural production goal for 1985 is 100% above 1980
levels with a projected 85% increase in fertilizer use. Under the 1981-85
Plan, 17% of public investment or YD 70 million (US$200 million) is allo-
cated to the agricultural sector as follows; YD 50.0 million (US$145 mil-
lion) for 17 projects in irrigation to improve 9,600 ha of spate-irrigated
and 6,200 ha of well-irrigated lands; YD 6.1 million (US$17 million) for
expansion of Machinery Rental Stations (MRS); YD 6.2 (US$17 million) for
development of five state farms; YD 6.7 million (US$18 million) for devel-
opment of veterinary services; and YD 1.0 million (US$3 million) for two
marketing projects. These are ambitious targets and will be hard to attain
unless difficult institutional and other constraints that have hindered the
performance of the agricultural sector in the past are overcome.
IDA Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
1.12     IDA has financed four projects in the agricultural sector:  two
for fisheries development, and two for development of irrigated agriculture
in Wadis Hadramawt and Tuban.  Under the First Fisheries Project (Credit
370-YDR) IDA provided US$3.5 million in 1973 to cover 100% of the foreign
expenditure and a supplementary financing of US$1.6 million in 1975 to meet
the cost overrun of the Project. The Project's major components comprising
fish cold store and freezing facility became operational after a two-year



- 5 -
delay in June 1978. This Project has now been practically completed. The
Fisheries II Project (Credit 932-YDR) approved in August 1979, involves a
$10 million IDA credit and $3 million EEC Special Action Credit. Satis-
factory progress is being made on procurement for the construction of the
port and related shore facilities. The Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project
(Credit 615-YDR) involves an IDA credit of US$7.0 million and was approved
in April 1976. After an initial slow start resulting from difficulties in
recruiting Project experts, the Project is now proceeding satisfactorily
and will be completed by June 1982. To eliminate future delays in recruit-
ing Project experts, the Government is trying to streamline procedures with
FAO for providing such experts.  It is also trying to provide to the
Project experts proper housing facilities, lack of which had previously
dissuaded some from joining the Project or continuing to work for it. The
Wadi Tuban Project involves an IDA credit of US$5.2 million approved in May
1978. Initial implementation of this Project was delayed about a year due
to delay in arranging cofinancing by the Government. However, the project
has since picked up momentum and will be completed in June 1983.
1.13     IDA's general lending strategy for PDRY aims at strengthening the
productive sectors, including agriculture and fisheries, with provision for
technical assistance as an integral part of each Project to develop human
resources and institutions. Of high importance among IDA's development
objectives for PDRY is the promotion of import-substitution and export-
oriented projects to increase the country's foreign exchange reserves. The
Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project will help substantially in
import substitution (para. 5.08). Besides, it will be the first IDA Proj-
ect to assist individual farmers with credit and farm input supplies along
with state farms and cooperatives. To date, no completion reports have
been prepared for PDRY.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
General
2.01     The Project area is located in the north western part of the
Shabwa Governorate of the PDRY where it borders with the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) and Saudi Arabia. It covers the subgovernorate (mudriat) of
Beihan which comprises three districts (marakaz): Beihan, Nuqub and Ain
with a total population of 44,000. Wadi Beihan and its tributaries Nahr
and Khirr traverse the Beihan and Nuqub districts and Wadi Ain passes
through the Ain district (Map IBRD 15505). The total Project area is
estimated as 21,000 hectares, of which about 3,500 ha is equipped with well
irrigation of which 2,300 ha is located within the Wadi Beihan's command



-6-
and 1,200 ha within the Wadi Ain's command. The area is linked to Aden by
a 230 km non-engineered track which joins Aden-Mukallah asphalt road at
Naqabah (330 km from Aden). 92 km of high priority sections of this track
will be improved under the Third Highway Project (FY81).
Climate
2.02     The climate of the project area is sub-tropical, arid with an
estimated average annual rainfall of 120 mm. Maximum daily temperatures
range between 320C to 380C from March to October, and between 250C to
29°C from November to February. From the two-year record of relative
humidity measurement at Beihan, the average relative humidity over the year
has been calculated as 36.9% with the minimum value of 25% in June and the
maximum value of 45% during December and January. The potential evapo-
transpiration calculated using the Penman method averages 5.98 mm/day. The
winter temperatures are very suitable for growing wheat, barley, and pota-
toes among other irrigated crops.
B. Resources
Water Resources
2.03     The Wadi Beihan with its tributaries Nahr and Khirr and Wadi Ain
are the main source of surface and ground water in the Project area.
Except for the studies made by the SOGREAH Consultants in 1978 for agricul-
tural development of the Wadi Beihan, very little information is available
about the hydrology of these wadis. SOGREAH have estimated an average
annual inflow of 38 Mm3 at the head of the Wadi Beihan system, mostly
originating from the plateaus at elevations ranging between 1,800 and 2,000
m, located in the YAR in the catchment areas of Wadi Nahr and Wadi Khirr.
Average annual outflow of the flood water at the downstream end of the
system has been estimated at 6 Mm3. No hydrological studies were con-
ducted for Wadi Ain as it would require an international agreement between
YAR and PDRY to study and develop its water resources. Consequently, no
works for developing spate and groundwater use in Wadi Ain would be in-
cluded in the Project. A short flood season occurs between March and May
and contributes about 28% of the wadis annual flows. The main flood season
occurs between July and September and contributes about 57% of the annual
flows. The spate water has very low salinity concentration and carries a
considerable amount of silt and is therefore very suitbale for irrigation.
2.04     Unconfined aquifers exist under the Project area with water table
varying from 10 m in the upper parts of the wadis to about 50 m towards
their lower ends. The main known source of the aquifer recharge is
percolation from the wadis and spate irrigated fields, followed by direct
recharge by rainfall. The quality of ground water is generally good; salt
content does not exceed 1.5 g/l. Locally towards the edges of the culti-
vated areas, where recharge is low, salinity goes up to 2.5 g/l. The



-7 -
present water baLance of the Wadi Beihan ground water system indicates an
annual storage loss of 6 Mm3 and escape of about 13 Mm3 of water into
the desert downstream of the Wadi Beihan system of which about 6 Mm3
escapes as surface flow, and about 7 Mm3 as flow from the aquifer. Over
the past 15 years, the introduction of diesel motors has rendered the
extraction of ground water much easier while the maintenance of the tradi-
tional spate irrigation system has become less attractive due to: (a)
shortage and higher costs of labor caused by work opportunities in the oil
rich neighboring states; and (b) random nature of floods and uncertainty of
performance of diversion dikes during spates. The traditional maintenance
and use of the spate irrigation is therefore on the decline, whereas
extraction of groundwater is increasing. In some regions, especially below
Nuqub (Map IBRD 15506), the development of pumping has resulted in a drop
of about 10 m in the level of the water table. The future policy of water
resources use must therefore ensure that: (i) the pumping of aquifer is
regulated to attain groundwater stabilization within reasonable limit of
aquifer, drawdow,m and; (ii) spate irrigation is improved by keeping the
spate irrigation structures in good state of repair and by developing sound
designs for the diversion dikes to minimize risk of their failure.
Land Resources
2.05     The total area of Wadi Beihan is about 16,700 ha, of which about
4,800 ha are classified as fully suitable for irrigation, about 2,300 ha as
moderately suitable and the remaining 9,600 ha as unsuitable. The fully
suitable soils alone exceed the water resources available for irrigation.
About 2,300 ha are equipped with 530 wells. About 600 ha are on the aver-
age cultivated annually on pure spate irrigation. No detailed mapping has
been done for the Wadi Ain. Its total area is estimated as 3,500 ha of
which about 1,200 ha are cultivated annually under combined well and spate
irrigation and about 400 ha under pure spate irrigation.
Soils
2.06     Valley soils were formed through aeolian, alluvial and colluvial
deposits. In the lower areas, loess-like soils with a uniform texture
(very fine sand to coarse silt) and high permeability predominate. The
middle and upper parts of the valleys include terraces of fine silt loam,
believed to have been formed largely through regulated flooding before and
during the Qatabanian era, and more recent colluvial, alluvial and aeolian
deposits of varying texture. As a result of high soil permeability and
periodic leaching through flooding, no salinity accumulation occurs on well
irrigated land, where soil E.C. shows values below 0.75 mmhos/cm. Nitrogen
and organic matter contents are low ( 0.5% and   1% respectively, in the
surface horizon), potassium and phosphorus contents are medium to high.
Soil pH is high (between 7.5 and 9.1) and calcium carbonate content medium
high (average 5-10%). Readily available moisture of the medium textured
soils is high (about 430 mm).



- 8 -
C. Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.07     Since the agrarian reform's law of 1970, two state farms and three
cooperatives have been established in Wadi Beihan and one cooperative in
Wadi Ain. However, to a much greater extent than in other agricultural
areas in the country, individual farmers remain an important group partici-
pating in agriculture.  About 70% of the well irrigated area is cultivated
by individual farmers.
2.08     The two state farms, Timna and Usaylan, have a total area of 630
ha, are equipped with 20 wells and boreholes which irrigate about 150 ha
annually. Fifty-five permanent and from 45 to 65 temporary workers are
employed by these state farms. The three cooperative farms in Wadi Beihan
(Usaylan, Al-Alia and Nuqub) have a combined membership of 580 and cover a
cultivable area of 1,100 ha of which about 600 ha are irrigated by 130
wells. The one cooperative farm in Wadi Ain has a membership of 244, is
equipped with 62 wells which irrigate about 200 ha. The cooperatives com-
prise small production units of three to ten families each who collectively
own and operate a well. The cooperatives provide services to their members
for maintaining pumping equipment; storing and distributing farm inputs,
arranging equipment from the MRS for land cultivation, and arranging
marketing of the surplus farm produce.  They also assist in implementing
Government-approved cropping plans. Cooperative members pay 10% on the
gross value of their cereal and vegetable production to the cooperatives as
service fee and 10% of their gross produce, excepting forage, as Government
tax.
2.09     There are about 2,300 individual farmers in Wadi Beihan who irri-
gate about 1,600 ha from 400 wells and about 1,000 individual farmers in
Wadi Ain who irrigate about 1,000 ha from 260 wells. Land of private
farmers includes some spate irrigated areas, which vary seasonally. No
data on farm size distribution is available but random surveys suggest that
most irrigated farms are between 1.0 and 1.5 ha with a few between 3.0 and
4.0 ha. The individual farmers pay 10% equivalent of their gross produce
excepting forage as Government tax. The holdings being small, the family
labor can generally manage the farming operations. Nonfamily labor is only
occasionally hired for preparing irrigation basins and harvesting.
D. Infrastructure
Roads
2.10     The town of Beihan is located at a distance of 560 km from Aden.
From Aden to Naqabah, 330 km are asphalted and the remaining 230 km are
non-engineered track. Paving of 92 km of this track from Naqabah to Nisab
is proposed to be completed by mid 1984 under a proposed IDA Credit. The
Government proposes to take up the improvement of the remaining sections of



- 9 -
the track in later phases. Wadi Ain is linked to Wadi Beihan by a 22 km
rough hilly track through a pass at an elevation of 1,600 m. Four-wheel
drive vehicles are used for transport over this road. A longer but
comparatively flatter track, skirting the desert, is used by heavier trucks
for transporting bulk items like fuel. In the Nuqub Plain, extremely poor
feeder tracks provide access to both sides of the Wadi. Road transport in
and outside of the Project area is costly. Freight rate charged by the
Public Corporation for Land Transport between Aden and Beihan is YD 27
(US$78) per ton.
Health and Education
2.11     Beihan has a regional hospital with seven dispensaries in the
Project area. There are 16 primary schools where about 3,000 children are
taught. Secondary education exists only in the towm of Beihan.
Electricity and Water Supply
2.12     The town of Beihan is the only urban area equipped with an elec-
tric distribution network. Power is delivered by a diesel generator from
18.00 to 23.00 hrs each day. The water supply in Beihan is provided
through community taps in the main street.
Industry
2.13     There is no real industry in the Project area.  Only a few small
plants for processing food stuffs either for milling cereals or triturating
sesame exist.
Local Institutions
2.14     The subgovernor (Mamur) of Beihan is the head of civil services of
the subgovernorate of Beihan which include the departments of municipali-
ties, education, health, treasury, police, justice and agriculture. The
department of agriculture has only one agriculturist and one statistician
working in it. Their activities are restricted to implementation of the
Government policies in respect of cropping patterns and processing farmers'
applications f-or purchase of agricultural equipment and pumping machinery,
and collecting agricultural statistics. Other institutions working in the
district include the Public Corporation for Marketing Fruit and Vegetables
(PCMFV), Consumers' Cooperative, MRS and the National Bank of Yemen (NBY).
The PCMFV has a collecting unit for collecting fruit and vegetables mostly
onions and potatoes which are surplus to local requirements, and for trans-
porting them to Aden. The Consumers' Cooperative distributes the imported
food stuff like wheat, rice, sugar and vegetables and tea through several
outlets in the main villages. The MRS provides machinery services for land
preparation and cultivation and has a well equipped central workshop at
Beihan for maintenance and repair of equipment. It has been in service in
Beihan since 1972. The MRS services are generally insufficient to meet the
areals requirements due to scarcity of tractors, shortage of spare parts,



- 10 -
inadequate salaries of the drivers and the insufficient rentals which they
have been collecting in the past (recently, the Government has raised the
rentals of the machinery to recover their full maintenance and operation
costs). The NBY has a local branch in Beihan which, apart from its normal
commercial banking, provides institutional credit to MRS, state farms and
cooperatives for the purchase of machinery. Such loans are guaranteed by
the Ministry of Finance. The Bank's charter authorizes it to provide
credit to the private sector but so far individual farmers have been denied
credit as a state policy. The Department of Irrigation of MAAR (head-
quarters Aden) has a section in Beihan responsible for irrigation network
maintenance but remote control and shortage of equipment and staff has
seriously limited its efficiency.  This section will be merged with the
Wadi Beihan Project Unit (BPU) when established.
E. Project Approach
2.15     Development of Wadi Beihan is of major concern to the Government
as this area, located in a border zone, faces serious problems of isola-
tion, depletion of the resource base, neglected maintenance of the produc-
tive infrastructure, low agricultural productivity and exodus of the labor
force to neighboring oil producing countries. The area is particularly
important to the Government as its offers the only significant potential
for development in this part of the country. With 15% of the country's
total well irrigated land, it constitutes a sizeable proportion of the
agricultural resource base, and could thus contribute substantially to the
Second Five Year Plan's national goals (para. 1.11).
2.16     While most of the agricultural zones of the country, in particular
Wadi Abyan, Wadi Hadramawt and Wadi Tuban, have benefitted from specific
agricultural development projects, the remoteness of Wadi Beihan and com-
munication difficulties have delayed development activities and Government
services to farmers in this area. However, the area presents good poten-
tial for increasing agricultural productivity through: (i) timely provi-
sion of appropriate quantities of farm inputs including a broader avail-
ability of credit; (ii) the provision of technical assistance, extension
and farm mechanization services; and (iii) better water management and
improved irrigation efficiency. Adding to the potential is the dynamism of
the farming population which is probably due to a particular feature of
Beihan, where the large individual farming sector appears responsive to
price incentives offered by the free market and to greater flexibility in
the organization of cooperatives, allowing small groups of individual
farmers to own pumps and agricultural machinery and to have access to
limited free marketing. Farmers' positive attitude regarding agricultural
development is further reflected by their willingness to invest in pump-
sets, tractors, irrigation infrastructure and equipment. For the above
reasons the choice of Wadi Beihan as a location for an agricultural devel-
opment project is undoubtedly justified.



- 11 -
2.17     Under Beihan's prevailing climate, agriculture is essentially
dependent on irrigation from groundwater and spate resources but water
availability has become the major constraint to development. The pro-
gressive over-exploitation of groundwater resources and the increasing
neglect of spate irrigation infrastructure, reflected by the shrinking area
benefitting from it, has produced two effects giving reason for concern.
The first is that pumping in the aquifer at a rate beyond its present
recharge capacity has caused the water level in the wells to drop. The
second is that crop yields are decreasing as a result of soil fertility
depletion in the absence of silt deposits on fields which are no longer
spate irrigated. It is therefore essential that the project be designed to
rectify this situation or, at least, to prevent further deterioration.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Design Features
Objectives
3.01     Project objectives are to:  (i) increase agricultural production
and farm income in the Project area by; (a) rehabilitating the spate
irrigation network and improving the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi
Beihan, and (b) providing technical assistance, farm inputs and agricul-
tural machinery for both Wadi Beihan and Wadi Ain; (ii) assess the surface
and groundwater potential of the area and confirm the technical feasibility
of attaining a stable groundwater level within reasonable limits of aquifer
draw-down under existing groundwater usage in Wadi Beihan by setting up a
program of hydrometeorological observations; (iii) provide access to impor-
tant centers of population and agriculture in the area to facilitate move-
ment of agricultural inputs and produce by constructing feeder roads and
providing maintenance equipment; and (iv) improve nutrition of the rural
poor by growing a wider range of crops and fruits for local consumption.
Description
3.02     The Project activities would include:
(i)  establishing Project management, engineering, and agricultural
extension services;
(ii) providing farm inputs and facilitating their distribution in both
Wadis Beihan and Ain;
(iii) rehabilitating spate irrigation of Wadi Beihan and controlling its
bank erosion at vulnerable points;
(iv) implenmenting well improvement and on-farm works in Wadi Beihan;



- 12 -
(v) providing equipment for the MRS for Wadis Beihan and Ain;
(vi)  constructing feeder roads in Wadi Beihan; and
(vii)  conducting hydrometeorological studies in Wadi Beihan.
Detailed Features
3.03     Project Management and Technical Assistance.  In Beihan, there are
neither central nor provincial services capable of handling Project imple-
mentation. A Project Implementation Unit (BPU) (Annex 3, Chart WB 22507)
assisted by technical experts will, therefore, be set up to implement the
Project and subsequently, to be integrated into the provincial department
of agriculture. The technical experts, hired under the Project, would
include a Technical Coordinator (Senior Advisor to the local Project
Manager) 54 man-months, an irrigation engineer 42 man-months, an extension
specialist 46 man-months, a hydrogeologist 48 man-months, and a credit
specialist 18 man-months. In addition, short-term consultancy services
will be procured for firming up, with the help of data collected by the
Project's hydrogeologist, the estimates of surface and groundwater poten-
tial of the Project area and confirming the technical feasibility of
attaining equilibrium within reasonable limits of the aquifer drawdown
under prevailing water usage conditions in the Project area. Overseas
practical training 200 man-months will be provided to the local technical
staff and extension agents in their job-related disciplines. A detailed
list of the Project staff is in Annex 2, Table 3. In addition to the
staff, the Project would provide for the construction of a Project office,
12 residential houses for technical experts, and management, engineering
and administrative staff (Annex 1); and transport, other housing and office
equipment for these services (Annex 2, Table 4).
Extension Services
3.04     Although a suitable extension commencement package exists to
enable the start-up of extension service in the area, additional work on
crop husbandry and knowledge of the productive effects of agricultural
inputs at the field level are required to the development of agriculture in
the Project area. To improve the farmers knowledge, an effective agricul-
tural extension service will be set up in the Project area. Apart from the
extension specialist (para 3.03) this service will employ sufficient exten-
sion staff (Annex 2, Table 3 and para 4.07) to adequately demonstrate to
the farmers the benefits of improved techniques in agricultural opera-
tions. The Project will also provide for establishing a pilot farm,
purchasing equipment and expendable materials for demonstration purposes
(Annex 2, Table 4), constructing 15 extension centers to provide office and
housing accommodation for the agricultural and veterinary staff, three
stores for agricultural inputs, and for executing the nursery and experi-
mental farm works.



- 13 -
Spate Irrigation and Erosion Control
3.05     Increasing neglect of spate irrigation infrastructure (para 2.04)
is of great concern to the Government because it is resulting firstly in
over-exploitation of the groundwater resources and secondly in reduced crop
yields due to decreasing soil fertility of the fields which are no longer
spate irrigated. Alternatives were studied by SOGREAH to improve the
existing system of spate irrigation and it was concluded that improved
maintenance and repair of the existing irrigation network would be prefer-
able than constructing more permanent structures which were not found
economically viable based on current limited knowledge of Wadi Beihan's
hydrology. The aim is to keep operational, at a minimum expenditure, an
irrigation techniique which has the triple advantage of providing additional
irrigation water for crops, recharging the aquifer and the distribution of
beneficial silt on the fields. The Project would provide equipment and
materials (Annex 2, Table 4) and finance staff for implementing the spate
irrigation improvement and erosion control works in Wadi Beihan. Erosion
control works are required to protect a number of important villages and
other structures which are located on the banks of wadi Beihan and are in
immediate danger of destruction from the Wadi floods (Annex 1).
Well Improvement and On-Farm Works
3.06     With the current rate of the aquifer's exploitation, the water
surface level in the Nuqub Plain (where extraction is maximum) is dropping
and may recede by about 2.5 meters by the year 1985, requiring improvement
of certain wells. Out of the 180 shallow wells in the Nuqub Plain, pumping
a total annual volume of about 18 Mm3, 88 wells which together produce
13 Mm3 have been identified for improvement. The improvement would
include deepening each well by about 4 m, 2.5 m to compensate for the
expected water table drop during the Project plus 1.5 m to compensate for
possible layers of poor permeability. A masonry lining 25 cm thick and 2 m
high will extend the existing lining at the bottom. Similar deepening is
traditionally clone by the local labor in Wadi Beihan and they have acquired
proficiency in this type of work. Thirty replacement pumping sets and
additional elements of pipes and pump shafts would also be provided for
well improvement. Land improvement works comprising 950 ha of land
levelling (150 ha in the state farms and 800 ha on other lands) and water
course lining (Annex 1) will also be executed under the project to increase
irrigation efficiency.
Input Supply and Distribution
3.07     Use of fertilizer, plant protection chemicals and better seeds
would be essential to improve productivity in the Project area. The Proj-
ect would supply the full requirement of fertilizer and plant protection
chemicals for the first year's use and incremental requirements for the
years two through five of the Project. In addition, the Project would
provide the staff, equipment and other costs required for the distribution
of farm inputs.



- 14 -
Orchard Establishment
3.08     There is an acute shortage of fruit in PDRY.  The climate in the
Wadi Beihan area is suitable for growing citrus. The Project would provide
for cultivation of about 130 ha of citrus in the Project area to increase
availability of fruit for which there is a keen demand in and outside of
the Project area. The investment costs included in the Project (Annex 2,
Table 2) comprise all costs associated with the procurement, transportation
and cultivation of the plants. Citrus plants will be obtained from exist-
ing nurseries elsewhere in the country until such time as the nursery, to
be developed under the Project, comes into production.
Equipment for Machinery Rental Station
3.09     In order to improve the machinery services in the Project area,
15 tractors including implements and spare parts (Annex 2, Table 4) and a
mobile workshop will be provided to MRS under the Project.
Feeder Roads
3.10     About 16 km of gravel roads specifications of which are in
Annex 1, will be constructed in the Nuqub Plain to connect Nuqub with the
important centers of population and agriculture in the area and to facil-
itate transport of inputs and produce into and out of the area. In addi-
tion, road maintenance equipment (Annex 2, Table 4) will be provided to the
BPU for maintenance of the existing road between Nuqub and Beihan as well
as the gravel roads constructed under the Project.
Hydrometeorological Stations
3.11     One weather, four rainfall-recording, and three river gauge
recording stations will be established in the Project area for compiling
hydrometeorological data. In addition, surface and groundwater monitoring
staff (Annex 2, Table 3) will be provided to observe the wadi's flow data,
monitor the groundwater utilization and behaviour and compile data required
to determine the technical feasibility of stabilizing the groundwater level
under prevailing water use conditions within acceptable limits of aquifer
drawdown.
Engineering Status
3.12     The civil engineering works provided under the Project are very
minor. Their engineering requirements involve design of the office and
other residential buildings required for the staff at Beihan and the
village extension centers; alignment and design of the feeder roads; survey
plans for land levelling, and plans for erosion control works. The build-
ings at Beihan will be precast or prefabricated structures not susceptible
to damage from weather or termites having floor areas of about 200 m2 for
the office and about 100 m2 each for three bedroom houses and about
80 m2 each for two bedroom houses. They will be procured under Inter-



- 15 -
national Comparative Shopping and their designs will be supplied by the
manufacturers. Type designs of the extension centers of about 80 m2
floor area each will be prepared during the first year of the Project's
implementation by the Ministry of Construction. Feeder roads will follow
the alignment of existing tracks and will be constructed by the Ministry of
Construction on the basis of its standard designs of embankments and
culverts required for such roads. The plans for erosion control works and
the survey plans for land levelling will be prepared by the BPU during
Project implementation. Sufficient engineering staff has been provided
under the Project for this purpose.
Water Demand and Supply
3.13     During an average year about 3,500 ha of crops are grown in the
well-irrigated areas of Wadi Beihan which also receive occasional flood
waters. Total quantity of groundwater pumped for these crops was estimated
by SOGREAH as 50 Mm3. Total demand at pump head of the crops presently
grown in the Wadi Beihan has been calculated as 49.3 Mm3. With the Proj-
ect, total water demand of the crops grown in the well-irrigated area of
Wadi Beihan would be 48.7 Mm3. These calculations assume no contribution
from spate irrigation. In fact, with improvement of spate irrigation, the
demand on groundwater will reduce, resulting in further savings which
cannot be quantified at this stage. SOGREAH investigations have shown that
the water level in the Nuqub Plain (where extraction is maximum) is pro-
gressively falling and if pumping at current rate continues, the aquifer
level in this area will drop further; but the rate of depletion will
decrease due to reduction of outflow of the groundwater from the Project
area. The aquifer level in the Nuqub Plain may possibly recede by about
2.5 meters by the year 1985 and 12 meters by the year 2000. At this stage
of aquifer knowledge, it is difficult to predict the depth at which aquifer
will ultimately stabilize. Under the circumstances, it is necessary that.
(i) the behavio:)r of the aquifer should be observed and further data col-
lected to feed into the mathematical model prepared by SOGREAH for predict-
ing its future behavior; (ii) greater use should be made of the spate water
for irrigation and aquifer recharge; and (iii) exploitation of the aquifer
beyond the present uses should be controlled. The Project design caters to
these needs for Wadi Beihan. For Wadi Ain, neither will any change be
proposed in the existing water usage nor will any investments be made for
further developments of its surface and groundwater resources (para 3.14).
Riparian Issues
3.14     Wadi Beihan, where the traditional flood irrigation system is
proposed to be rehabilitated, exits into the uninhabitable desert of Ramlat
Sabatayn where no cultivation is practiced. Thus, there is no potential
for downstreanm conflicts over its water use. Besides, the tributaries of
Wadi Beihan in its upper catchment area located in YAR have narrow beds,
steep slopes and only small irrigable areas. There is, therefore, no like-
lihood of any significant additional diversion of spate waters beyond
traditional usage in the catchment area located in YAR. Wadi Ain in parts



- 16 -
runs at or close to the border between Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and PDRY
and its surface and groundwater resources are utilized by the riparians of
both countries. However since the Project does not provide for any works
for the spate or groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Ain, there are no
international riparian issues involved at this stage. Any future move to
intensify water use in Wadi Ain should be based on an international agree-
ment.
Implementation Schedule
3.15     The Project would be implemented in five years in accordance with
the Schedule in Chart No. WB 22509 (Annex 3). Project implementation will
commence between January and June 1982 and procurement of all equipment and
civil works, except for rehabilitation of spate irrigation works and
improvement of on-farm works, will be completed before June 1985. Rehab-
ilitation of the spate irrigation works and improvement of on-farm works
along with agricultural extension will continue till Project completion,
which is estimated to be December 31, 1986.
B. Costs and Financing Arrangements
3.16     The estimated cost of the Project including contingencies based on
1980 prices is YD 6.2 million (US$18.1 million) equivalent. Its foreign
exchange component is estimated to be YD 4.2 million (US$12.2 million)
equivalent to 67% of Project costs. The costs of imported equipment, pre-
cast or prefabricated buildings and materials reflect current international
market prices. The costs of buildings to be locally constructed and of
feeder roads are estimated from the prevailing costs, in December 1980, of
similar construction in the country. Irrigation rehabilitation and erosion
control works have been costed as force account works. The Project organi-
zation, assisted by the expatriate experts, will have sufficient competence
to handle these works. Experts to be hired directly by the Government have
been costed at about US$64,000 per man-year. This includes their external
travel but excludes their local transportation and residential facilities
costs equivalent to about US$15,000 per man-year, which are covered by the
Project's operational and buildings costs. Physical contingencies have
been taken as 10% on equipment and all civil works. This allowance is
considered adequate due to the simple nature of the civil works involved.
Price contingencies, on local and foreign costs, allow for annual increases
of 9.0% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983 through 1985, and 6% for
1986. Total contingencies, physical and price, are about 41% of the base
cost. Import duties, taxes, and other levies are not included in the
Project costs as they are not charged on equipment and goods imported for
public projects. Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1, while detailed
costs are given in Annex 2.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
YD Million------  -----US$ Million-----               ($)
Project Management               0.30    0.85    1.15   0.86    2.47         3.34      74
Agricultural Extension           0.33    0.38    0.71   0.96    1.09         2.05      53
Farm Inputs - Supply
and Distribution                0.07    0.27    0.34   0.20    0.78         0.98      80
Spate Irrigation
Improvements                    0.12    0.38    0.50   0.35    1.10         1.45      76
Erosion Control
and River Training              0.14    0.22    0.36   0.40    0.64         1.04      62
Well Improvement
and On-Farm Works               0.33    0.48    0.81   0.96    1.39         2.35      59
Equipment for MRS                -        0.16    0.16   -         0.46      0.46    100
Feeder Roads and Hydro-
meteorological Studies          0.14    0.25    0.39   0.41    0.73         1.14      64
Hydrometeorological
Stations                         -      0.01    0.01       -      0.03      0.03    100
Base Cost                        1.43    3.00    4.43   4.15    8.69    12.84
Contingencies: - Physical        0.10    0.24    0.34   0.29    0.70         0.99
- Price         0.51    0.97    1.48   1.48    2.81         4.29
TOTAL COST                       2.04    4.21    6.25   5.92   12.20    18.12          67
3.17     An IDA Credit of US$8.0 million equivalent, on standard terms,
would finance 66% of the Project's foreign costs or about 44% of total
cost.  The Government of PDRY would finance US$3.9 million equivalent of
the local costs which represent 22% of the total cost. Project bene-
ficiaries will finance $0.2 million equivalent of the local cost which is
1% of the total costs.  The remaining local cost of US$1.8 million equiva-
lent which is 10% of the total cost together with foreign exchange cost of
US$4.2 million equivalent which is 34% of the project's foreign costs or
23% of the Project's total cost, would be provided by other cofinan-
cier(s). The Government has approached the International Fund for Agricul-
tural Development (IFAD) for cofinancing this project (Table 3.2) and
negotiations for a $6 million loan have been successfully completed. Sign-
ing by the Government of the cofinancing agreement will be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA Credit.



- 18 -
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
Government &
Beneficiaries  IDA          IFAD
(Local)     (FE)  (Local (Foreign)
-------------US$ million-------------
Project Management and Engineering
(Including Technical Assistance,
Local Staff, Office and Staff
Housing, Transportation, Office
Equipment)                                      1.17       2.86    -         0.46
Agricultural Extension
(Including Extension Staff, Equipment
and Expendable Materials, Pilot Farm,
Extension Centers, Stores, Nursery)            0.64        1.07   0.70       0.41
Input Supplies and Distribution                0.27        1.12    -          -
Spate Irrigation                                -          1.12   0.48       0.46
Hydromet Stations                              0.01        0.03    -         0.01
Erosion Control and River Training               -         0.63   0.62       0.29
Wells Improvement                              0.11          -      -        0.53
Land Improvement
(Including Land Levelling and Water
Course Lining)                                 0.97         -       -        1.45
Orchard Establishment                          0.35         -       -        0.09
M.R.S. Equipment                                 -         0.50    -         0.16
Feeder Roads                                   0.60        0.67              0.34
Total                                      4.12        8.00   1.80      4.20
/1 Wells improvement and orchard establishment will include beneficiaries'
contribution of 20% and 40%, respectively, in local costs.



- 19 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
3.18     The civil works included in the IDA-financed components of the
Project would comprise: (a) buildings for office and staff houses at
Beihan costing about US$1.0 million; (b) extension centers, stores, and
feeder roads costing about US$1.8 million equivalent; and (c) spate irriga-
tion and erosion control works costing about US$2.7 million equivalent.
The buildings for office and staff houses at Beihan will be of precast or
prefabricated st:ructure and would be suitable for international comparative
shopping (quota:ions from at least three qualified suppliers).  The exten-
sion centers, stores and feeder roads will be minor works scattered over
time and space and would not be suitable for International Competive Bid-
ding (ICB).  Since construction contractors in PDRY are few in number and
small in organization, these works will be carried out under local
negotiated contracts.  Spate irrigation and erosion control works will
essentially be of a maintenance nature spread over the entire project
period and would only be suitable for implementation as force account
works. The Project's accounting system in PDRY is adequate and the Project
organization assisted by the experts would have the competence to handle
proper execution of force account works. The number of equipment units to
be purchased for the Project (Annex 2, Table 4) being small and avail-
ability of spare parts and repair services in PDRY restricted, it would be
advisable to purchase equipment of the same makes under the Project as is
alread^7 available in the country. Accordingly, procurement of equipment
(US$3.0 million equivalent) under international comparative shopping
(quotations from at least three qualified firms) would be justified.
"Qualified firnis" for this purpose would mean the agents or manufacturers
whose equipment is previously operating in PDRY. For farm inputs like
fertilizer and plant protection chemicals, the Government is making annual
bulk purchases using its own procurement procedures (international shop-
ping) which are competitive and satisfactory to IDA. The purchase of
fertilizer for the Project (US$1.0 million equivalent) would be made
through the same channel provided the purchase is made from Bank member
countries, and Switzerland. The tender documents and the award would be
reviewed by IDA to insure their conformity with IDA rules.
IDA DisbursemerLts
3.19     The proposed IDA credit would disburse against IDA-financed
components of the Project as follows:
Civil Works
(a) Office, Staff Houses, Extension
Centers, Stores, Nursery and
Pilot Farm Works, Feeder Roads    -  45% of expenditure
SDRs 1.10 million
(US$1.33 million equivalent)
(b) Spate Irri,gation and Erosion
Control                             -  35% of expenditure
SDRs 0.87 million
(US$1.06 million equivalent)



- 20 -
Equipment and Goods                     -  80% of foreign expenditure of
SDRs 1.92 million (Ub$2.32 million          directly imported items
equivalent)                             -  80% of local expenditure (ex-
factory) of locally manufactured
items
- 45% of local expenditure for
imported items procured locally
Farm Inputs (Fertilizers,
Chemicals and Seeds)                    -  100% of foreign expenditure of
SDRs 0.84 million (US$1.02                  aggregate amount expended during
million equivalent                          the first year and incremental
amounts expended in subsequent
years
Experts, Consultants, Overseas
Training                                -  100% of foreign expenditure
SDRs 1.87 million (Ub$2.2 million
equivalent)
Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation, except for
spate irrigation improvement and erosion control works in which case a
Statement of Expenditure (6OE), signed by the Project Manager, certifying
that the expenditure claimed was actually incurred for the performance of
the spate irrigation improvement and erosion control works of Wadi Beihan
Agricultural Development Project and that the vouchers and other documents
pertaining to the said expenditure have been separately filed in the office
record and would be available for review of IDA's supervision missions and
for audit at the annual audit of the Project's accounts (para 3.20), would
suffice. Estimated schedule of disbursements is in Annex 2, Table 8.
D. Accounting
Accounts and Audit
3.20     The Project Management will maintain separate accounts of the
project which would be subject to regular internal audits, and also annual
audits carried out by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) separate accounts would
be maintained by the executing agencies which would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) a copy of such audit reports
would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year;
and (c) such audit reports would expressly include a statement certifying:
"we have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the Statements of Expenditure (SOE) submitted by the BPU to IDA for reim-
bursement from the Credit and in our opinion, the bOE submitted and the
supporting schedules and information submitted with them together with the
internal controls and procedures involved in their preparation, can be
fairly relied on to support the applications for reimbursement".



- 21 -
E. Environmental Impact
3.21     The Project will not have any adverse effects on the physical
environment; increased crop, fruits and livestock production would help
improve the nutrition and health of the population. Erosion control works
will protect villages from the onslaught of high floods. No adverse
effects are expected from the plant protection chemicals. Their use will
be based on the applied research recommendations and extension demonstra-
tion trials. The extension agents would be trained in the safe handling
and use of plant protection chemicals.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01     The Project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) through the (BPU) headed by a Project Manager
and a Technical Coordinator (senior advisor to the Project Manager). The
Project Manager would be directly responsible to the Deputy Minister of
Agriculture who may wish to delegate responsibility for operational matters
in the Ministry to the head of the Planning Department in view of the
multi-disciplinary nature of the project. Its proposed organizational
framework is presented in Chart WB 22507 (Annex 3). At ministerial level
periodic consultations would take place with all departments of the
Ministry, and with other Ministries and organizations, including NBY,
PCMFV, and the Ministry of Construction to ensure adequate support to the
project from the various ministries and agencies. The BPU would also work
in close coordination with the Provincial Director of Agriculture in Shabwa
Province and at the Sub-governorate level with the Sub-Governor (as repre-
sentative of the Governor), the secretary of the party, the district agri-
cultural commissioner, NBY, MRS, the four cooperatives, two state farms and
PCMFV.
4.02     The BPU would comprise six units--irrigation and hydrogeology,
extension and plant protection, animal production and health, monitoring
and evaluation, administration and accounts, and input procurement and dis-
tribution. Its extension section would rely on the Department of Extension
and Research of the MAAR for technical backstopping of the extension ser-
vice and on E.l-Kod research staff for applied research work at the pilot
farm and technical guidance for nursery development and management. Upon
completion of the project, the BPU would become the technical and admin-
istrative arm of the Provincial Service of Agriculture.



- 22 -
4.03     The BPU's management would include specialist staff comprising a
Technical Coordinator (senior adviser to the Project Manager), an Irriga-
tion Engineer, an Extension Specialist, a Credit Specialist and a Hydro-
geologist, all with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Government and IDA, and counterpart national
technical and administrative staff. In addition to the specialists' posts,
such technical posts which could not initially be filled by national staff
of adequate experience will be filled by expatriate staff. The specialists
and the other expatriate staff hired for the project, in addition to imple-
menting the project, would train their counterparts. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the experience and terms and conditions
of employment of the experts and other expatriate staff would be acceptable
to the Government and IDA and that the Government would appoint the Tech-
nical Coordinator, the Extension Expert, the Irrigation Expert and the
Hydrogeologist along with their counterparts by March 31, 1982 and fill
such intermediate level technical posts which could not be filled with
national staff of adequate experience, with expatriate staff by
September 30, 1982.
4.04     The functions of the BPU would consist of;  (a) procurement and
construction supervision of all civil works included in the project; (b)
implementation of irrigation improvement and land levelling, nursery expan-
sion and pilot farm works; (c) demonstrations of improved cultural prac-
tices including improved irrigation methods, farm mechanization, use of
fertilizer, improved crop varieties and plant protection; (d) procurement
and distribution of farm inputs; (e) assisting NBY with credit disburse-
ments; (f) compiling hydrometeorological and hydrogeological data to con-
firm the surface and groundwater potential of the project area and to
update the Simulation Model Study with the help of SOGREAH Consultants to
establish water management policy; and (g) preparation of annual work
programs and budgets; progress monitoring and reporting; and in-service
training of staff.
4.05     The Minister of Agriculture would make the necessary administra-
tive arrangements to provide the BPU with the necessary authority for
accomplishing these tasks. These arrangements would include the acquisi-
tion of land for works such as offices, houses and feeder roads, a formal
agreement with the Timna state Farm to set aside about 8 ha for pilot farm
establishment and nursery expansion, authority to operate the nursery and
pilot farm, to enter into contractual agreements with firms or local
entities for the execution of works and the procurement of goods, and to
contract experts, consultants and other staff required for the project.
The Ministry would obtain formal agreement from the Ministry of Labor to
allow the BPU to pay special hardship allowances to national staff serving
in the project. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the
Government will establish BPU at Beihan, under the MAAR, with organization
and terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Establishment of BPU will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 23 -
B. Project Implementation
Engineering Services
4.06     The engineering staff of the project would be headed by the irri-
gation engineer, hired as a specialist, who will be a university graduate
in civil engineering with a minimum of 12 years experience in engineering
projects including construction designs and management. He will be
assisted by a civil engineer with a minimum of 8 years experience which
should preferably include experience in land levelling and irrigation
works. The engineering services will prepare specifications of work and
equipment, organize procurement, prepare detailed designs, check layouts,
supervise construction, verify work performed and certify payments due for
works included in the project.
Agricultural Extension and Veterinary Services
4.07     The extension unit would initially be managed by an expatriate
specialist and rnational counterpart, with three extension officers, ten
extension agents, a veterinary officer and a veterinary assistant. Each
extension officer would work with three to four extension agents, who would
be stationed in the main villages. The officers would be agricultural
college graduates. If they are not locally available, graduates with
adequate experience in agricultural extension would be recruited from
abroad. The extension agents will be trained secondary agricultural school
graduates. A research officer assisted by an agricultural assistance will
operate the pilot farm.
Extension Centers and Facilities
4.08     Fifteen extension centers, three for extension officers and ten
for extension agents and two for veterinary and pilot farm staff, will be
established in the project area to assure adequate coverage of extension
activities in spate and well-irrigated areas. The centers would be located
at Al Hadga, Al Alia and Shamla in Al Alia Merkez; at Nuqub, Usaylan and
Zubayban in Usaylan Merkez, and at Al Hagb, Darb Al-Fellaheen and Darb
Al-Ummal in Al Ain Merkez. One extension agent will be assigned to each
center which will include a fertilizer and pesticide store, office, and
living quarters for the extension agent responsible for the center. These
*          centers would provide focal points for disseminating extension activities.
Each center would serve about 400 farmers at full development. The
extension staff would train farmers in field preparation, water applica-
tion, orchard establishment, fertilizer, herbicide and pesticide use and
disseminate results obtained in research trials through meetings, field
days, demonstration trials and other extension means. They would also
assist farmers in preparation of farm plans enabling them to apply for
credit from NB'Y. A pilot farm, to be established on about 8 ha of
irrigated land belonging to the Timna State Farm, would serve to carry out
applied research on fertilizers, varieties and cultural practices, thereby



- 24 -
providing essential technical back-stopping for the extension service. In
the third year of the project, different irrigation systems (California
pipes, sprinkler and drip) would be installed to study their comparative
benefits with respect to crop production, labor and water economy.
Veterinary Services
4.09     The main objectives of introducing veterinary services in the
project are: (a) to diagnose the incidence of parasites and infectious
diseases which are prevalent in the area; (b) organize vaccination
campaigns for livestock, train extension agents in helping farmers control
disease and parasites; and (c) advise farmers on the importance and methods
of improved animal nutrition. Funds have been included in the project for
a mobile veterinary unit, field equipment and expendable supplies required
for the operation of the service. Veterinary programs and activities would
be coordinated with other related Government projects and technically
directed by the Veterinary and Animal Production Department.
Training and Fellowships
4.10     For on-the-job training, available local facilities in Giar and
Lahaj would be utilized to the maximum to develop a qualified cadre of
agricultural extension workers in the project. Funds have also been pro-
vided for 200 man-months of training of extension agents, counterparts and
the other local project staff in project related discipline. Specific
training requirements will be identifie. after recruitment of BPU staff.
The choice of training programs and selection of candidates and the timing
of training would be made in a manner satisfactory to IDA. The BPU would
present to IDA a detailed training program including qualifications of
candidates by June 30, 1983. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
Agricultural Credit
4.11     The state farms, cooperatives, and individual farmers of the
Project area would require short-term loans to finance farm inputs and
medium-term loans to finance well improvement and on-farm works. MRS would
require medium-term loans for purchase of farm equipment. Traditionally,
institutional credit has been available only to cooperatives, state farms
and other public institutions and was provided by NBY and the Agricultural
Development Fund(ADF). Operations of ADF came to an end in 1980 and the
Government is establishing a new National Development Bank (NDB) for credit
operations in agriculture and industrial sectors. Pending the beginning of
operations by NDB, NBY remains the only credit institution available for
agricultural lending. It is already successfully handling credit opera-
tions for the IDA-financed Wadi Hadramawt (Cr. 615-YDR) and Wadi Tuban (Cr.
768-YDR) agricultural development projects where the loans are given to the
state farms, the cooperatives and the MRS at interest rates of 6% for
short-term credit and 5.5% for medium-term credit. Since number of indiv-
idual farms in the above projects was very small, no provision was made in



- 25 -
these projects for loans to individual farmers. For the Wadi Beihan Agri-
cultural Project, in view of the large number of individual farms in the
area, Government has agreed to extend credit facility to the individual
farmers also at interest rates not exceeding two percent above those
charged to the cooperatives and the state farms. This differential is
considered acceptable as individual farms in the Project area are small and
numerous, and the unit costs of NBY for processing loans to these clients
will be higher than to the cooperatives and the state farms. NBY would
assume additional risks in lending to small individual farmers compared
with cooperatives and state farms whose loans are guaranteed by the Govern-
ment.  Besides, the individual farmers also have a slight advantage over
the cooperative members as they are not required to pay cooperative fees
and are not obliged to follow cropping patterns prescribed by the Govern-
ment and can grow higher value crops like alfalfa and vegetables over a
greater proportion of their farms. Therefore, individual farmers should
have no problem in paying slightly higher interest rates.
4.12     The short-term loan requirement of the Project is estimated at
YD 251,000 (US$(0.73 million) equivalent (Annex 2, Table 6) and the medium-
term requirement at YD 987,000 (US$2.86 million) equivalent (Annex 2, Table
7). The cooperatives and state farms would purchase 100% of their require-
ments of farm inputs against credit, whereas the credit requirements of the
individual farmers would be about 50% of their total demand of the farm
inputs. Many of the individual farmers would purchase farm inputs against
cash payments. Regarding well improvements, the cooperative and the state
farms would be allowed loans up to 100% of the cost of well improvements
and the private farmers up to 80%, the remaining 20% being their equity.
For land improvement works, loans would be allowed up to 50% of their cost
and the remaining 50% will be provided as Government subsidy. At present,
the Government is subsidizing 100% of the cost of the land improvement
works for cooperatives in other areas. For orchard establishment, the
loans would be allowed up to 60% of the cost of land preparation and trans-
porting and planting the trees. The short-term loans for fertilizers and
insecticides and the medium-term loans for land improvement works will be
in kind. The BPU will handle procurement and distribution of farm inputs
on behalf of the NBY and implement the land improvement works.
4.13     The Government would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with
NBY to channel YD 1.24 million (US$3.60 million) equivalent for relending
to the beneficiaries out of the Project funds on terms and conditions
acceptable to the co-financiers. In the case of IDA, credit terms and con-
ditions agreed for onlending in the case of Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project
would be satisfactory to IDA. These conditions were that the Government
would lend to NBY at an interest rate of 3 percent for a term of 12 years,
including a two-year grace period. The foreign exchange risk will be
covered by the Government. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with NBY
for relending the Project funds to the state farms, cooperatives and
individual farmers for short and medium-term loans at conditions satis-
factory to the cofinanciers. A subsidiary loan agreement between the



- 26 -
Government and NBY would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. In case
of amount relent out of the proceeds of the IDA credit assurances were
obtained during negotiations that interest rates to be charged by NBY for
cooperatives, state farms and MRS, will not be less than 6% in case of
short-term loans and 5.5% in case of medium-term loans, and the interest
rates to be charged for the individual farmers would not exceed 2% from
those charged from cooperatives and state farms. The difference between
the terms of subloans and NBY's loan from the Government would cover its
administrative expenses.  Although these interest rates are low relative to
inflation in PDRY, which increased from 5% in 1979 to 12.5% (estimated) in
1980 and is projected at 8% to 9% for the next three years, they are con-
sidered acceptable. Interest rates in PDRY are playing an increasing role
in resource allocation within the economy and this project would increase
geographic spread of the interest rates structure agreed for the previous
IDA assisted agricultural projects. The project would also influence the
financing mechanism of the Machinery Renting Station (MRS), and the state
farms and cooperatives, the operations of which have been mostly subsidized
by the Government through budget allocations or through interest-free loans
from the now defunct ADF. These would now be required to operate using
interest bearing loans except for 50 percent subsidy on land improvement
works. IDA is also expected to have a major impact on the structure and
level of interest rates in PDRY in the future after the ongoing prices,
taxes and subsidy study financed by IDA under Wadi Tuban Project (Credit
768-YDR) is completed. Assurances were also obtained that any further
regulations permitting NBY to charge its borrowers interest rates higher
than those stated above would apply to loans granted to the cooperatives,
state farms, MRS and individual farmers under the Project.
C. Operation and Maintenance
Farm Inputs
4.14     The continued supply of fertilizer and plant protection chemicals
would be an important maintenance aspect of the Project. Their require-
ments would be determined from year to year and, in general, approximate
quantities consumed in the last year of the Project implementation. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that after the implementation of
the Project, the Government would ensure annual procurement and distribu-
tion of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals in an amount equivalent
to at least those levels at which such inputs were applied in last year of
the Project implementation.
Irrigation Works
4.15     Continued maintenance of the rehabilitated spate irrigation works
would be essential for the success of the Project. The experts employed
for the project would prepare guidelines and train the local staff for
maintaining these works. Adequate equipment has been provided under the



- 27 -
Project to rehabilitate and maintain spate irrigation works during Project
implementation. Periodic replacement of machinery at intervals not exceed-
ing six years would be essential to effectively cope with the repairs of
the spate irrigation works. An assurance was obtained during negotia-
tions that in order to ensure continued maintenance of spate irrigation
works, the Government would finance replacement of the equipment provided
tnder the Project at intervals not exceeding six years starting from the
date of initial procurement of the machinery.
Feeder Roads
4.16     The Government would require the BPU to maintain the feeder roads
constructed under the Project until they are transferred to the Public
Works Departmenit (PWD) for their regular maintenance. Equipment and funds
for two years maintenance of these roads are provided under the Project.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that BPU would adequately
maintain the Project roads until their maintenance is transferred to PWD.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17     During and following Project implementation, the BPU would main-
tain records of all inputs furnished to the farmers, their production
costs, prices received and crop yields obtained. The BPU will also prepare
quarterly reports in a format satisfactory to the Government and IDA.  The
progress reports would be submitted to the Government with copies to IDA
quarterly during Project implementation, and annually thereafter for the
next five years. In addition, BPU would prepare a completion report and
submit copies to the Government and IDA within six months of the closing
date of the Project. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
4.18     Monitoring of the aquifer and controlling its further exploitation
to guard against its irreversible depletion would be an important aspect of
the Project's monitoring.  BPU, through its hydrogeologist, would maintain
a continuous record of the groudwater levels at selected points in the
Project area arid report their behavior to the Government and IDA through
quarterly and annual progress reports (para. 4.17). The Project hydro-
geologist will examine each case of the proposed installation of new irri-
gation well(s) in the Project area and advise the Government on its likely
effects on the aquifer. Each case of such new installation along with the
hydrogeologist"s report will be sent by the Government to IDA for its
review and comrnents before granting a drilling permit. An assurance in
this respect was obtained during negotiations. Drilling of tubewells and
import of pumping equipment into the country is controlled by the Govern-
ment. Consequently, it has the necessary instruments available to regulate
groundwater development in the project area.



- 28 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Present Land Use and Crop Distribution
Land Use
5.01     Traditionally, spate irrigation was the basis of agriculture in
the Beihan and Ain valleys, well irrigation being of minor importance.
Over the last 20 years the roles have been reversed: while in 1958 the
Beihan valley had 153 camel-operated wells and 7 pumps, in 1964 there were
253 pumps and no camel-operated wells. An administrative survey in 1980
showed 500 pump-equipped wells and boreholes in the Wadi Beihan area and
322 in the Wadi Ain area. The total command area of well irrigation is
estimated at 3,500 ha, of which Wadi Ain accounts for about 1,200 ha. Most
of the area under pump irrigation in Wadi Ain receives one or more spate
irrigations, but in the Wadi Beihan area regular flooding of well-irrigated
land by spate flow is limited to farms bordering the Wadi Khirr confluence
and parts of the area downstream of Nuqub. Due to lack of maintenance of
spate irrigation, the area receiving spate water has been decreasing and
currently the area cultivated, in an average year, with spate irrigation
only is about 1000 ha, 600 ha being in Wadi Beihan and 400 ha in Wadi Ain.
Wheat and sesame are the main crops grown under pump irrigation. Land
receiving only spate irrigation is cultivated with sorghum for fodder or
grain, depending on whether it receives only one, or two irrigations. In
recent years potatoes and onions have been successfully introduced on
well-irrigated lands and the Sonalika high-yielding wheat variety is being
encouraged to replace the local variety of wheat. A small nursery provides
grafted citrus seedlings for orchard establishment. Dates, papaya and
grapes are grown primarily for family consumption. Alfalfa is expanding as
a result of the high prices paid for livestock (mainly sheep and goats).
Sorghum fodder and stover are fed to bullocks, cattle and camels, the
latter being more common in the lower plain bordering the sand dune desert
to the north. Sizeable bunded areas receiving floods from tributary
valleys are planted with Zizyphus spina-christi, a thorny tree periodically
lopped, on a rotational basis, to provide animal feed.
B. Development Constraints and Remedies
5.02     Though the Wadi Beihan and Wadi Ain areas have several favorable
factors like good climatic conditions, suitable aquifer for irrigation,
good soils and an enterprising farming community, its agricultural develop-
ment is constrained by:
(a) lack of agricultural extension, research, and veterinary services;
(b) deterioration of spate irrigation structures resulting in reduced
spate irrigation and groundwater recharge;



- 29 -
(c)  uncontrolled development of pump irrigation leading to a drop in
the watertable and the need for well deepening;
(d)  non-availability of agricultural inputs and credit to most farmers;
(e)  small size of fields, requiring labor-intensive methods of irriga-
tion anld cultivation;
(f)  high cost of labor.
The proposed project has been designed to alleviate several of these
constraints.  Technical assistance and physical facilities will be provided
to organize an effective agricultural extension network, improve spate and
groundwater irr:igation structures, organize credit and input supplies, and
facilitate agricultural operations. A small pilot farm will be established
in Timna state farm to test and demonstrate the crop development packages
recommended by the El Kod Agricultural Research Station. The staff working
in the pilot farm would be responsible for adaptive research in fertili-
zers, cultural practices, and pest, disease and weed control. The exten-
sion service will carry the tested packages to the farmers' demonstration
fields. Drip and mini-sprinkle irrigation systems (2.6 ha) and the "Cali-
fornian" pipe distribution system will also be installed on the pilot farm
to test and demonstrate to the farmers alternative water-saving irrigation
methods and cultural practices, in particular for high-value crops such as
citrus, onions and potatoes. Improved spate maintenance works would pro-
vide more frequent flooding of well-irrigated land, thereby increasing soil
fertility, reducing pumping requirements and increasing aquifer recharge.
Improvements of the field conveyance system would enable water saving which
would serve to intensify cropping. Land levelling would allow a change
from basin to border or furrow irrigation and more efficient farm machinery
operations, thereby reducing labor requirements and improving irrigation
efficiency. Although a fairly large degree of self-financing is expected,
both cooperative and individual members would have access to short- and
medium-term credit, the latter mainly for well deepening, irrigation and
land improvement and, orchard establishment. Medium-term credit would also
be provided to the MRS to acquire additional tractors and equipment to pro-
vide more timely land preparation services. Farm machinery would include
threshing machines to reduce labor, and to reduce grain losses. Land
levelling combined with a higher degree of mechanization would also reduce
labor inputs for potato cultivation and harvesting.
C. Crop Production
5.03     No significant change is foreseen in the total well-irrigated
area, but a shift is expected to higher value crops, following a trend
discernible in other interior valleys, such as Wadi Hadramawt, but thus far
hampered by a lack of inputs, mechanization and marketing constraints.
Reduced water losses resulting from on-farm development and irrigation



- 30 -
improvement on 950 ha, increased supplemental spate irrigations due to
spate infrastructure improvements, and a reduction in cereal and sesame
area by about 22 percent would enable a more than 100 percent increase in
the area under more profitable crops such as potatoes, onions, fruit and
alfalfa. While wheat would remain the principal crop, covering over 60
percent of the area cropped in winter, the high-yielding variety sonalika
is expected to replace local varieties over three quarters of the area.
Higher yields would result in an increased total output of cereals and
oilseeds, on a slightly reduced area.
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROP AREA, YIELD AND
PRODUCTION, WADI BEIHAN AND WADI AIN
Present                         Future
Well-Irrigated Crops       Area     Yield   Production   Area   Yield    Production
(ha)    (ton/ha)    (ton)       (ha)  (ton/ha)       (ton)
Wheat, high yielding
variety                     75        1.8        135     1,574      2.3       3,620
Wheat, local              2,256        1.1     2,482        537      1.5         806
Barley                      223        1.4       312         43      1.6          69
Sesame                    1,447        0.5       723      1,157      0.8         926
Sorghum & millet            372        1.0       372        106      1.5         159
Potatoes                     48        8.0        384       255    13.0        3,315
Onions & garlic              96        8.0        768       145    12.0        1,740
Summer vegetables            10       10.0       100         64    15.0          960
Alfalfa (green)             320       60.0    19,200        536    80.0       43,000
Citrus                       73       10.0       500        202    14.0        2,800
Others /1                    50         -         -           50      -          -
Straw & stover (total)    -             -      9,100         -        -        6,000
Total well irrigated
crops                   4,970          -        -        4,659       -          -
Total well irrigated
physical area           3,500          -        -        3,500       -          -
Spate irrigated
sorghum                  1,000       3.5      3,500      1,300      3.7       4,830
/1  Mainly dates, qat, papaya, grapes.  Production figures for these crops are not
available. No incremental production has been assumed from these crops.
Extension of qat is not permitted by the Government.
5.04     Increased cereal production would largely be the result of an
expected rapid acceptance of the selected high yielding wheat variety, once
adequate quantities of seed and fertilizer are available. Presently some
farmers are said to prefer the local varieties because of taste prefer-
ence. This trend will change when the advantages of the new variety are
adequately demonstrated. Nevertheless, it is estimated that at full
development the local varieties would continue to occupy about 25 percent
of the area under wheat.  Yields of other crops would improve by the use of



- 31 -
fertilizer, pest, disease and weed control and other improved cultural
practices, based on applied research guidelines.
5.05     Fruit Production.  The project would promote citrus production by
providing technical advice, increasing the production of grafted seedlings,
supplying fertilizers, chemicals and equipment for disease, pest and weed
control, and providing medium-term loans through NBY. The orchards would
increase from aboxut 70 ha at present to over 200 ha in year five, and would
be composed mainly of sweet oranges and limes. Virus-free grafted seed-
lings would be produced under the guidance of El Kod Research Center staff
near Aden, increasing the output of seedlings from 2000 at present to about
18,000 in year five of the project. Expansion of nursery facilities would
be on new land al: the proposed pilot farm at Nuqub. To enable early com-
mencement of orchard expansion, initially seedlings would be supplied from
the existing Lodar nursery at Mukairas, which would also provide virus-free
budwood. the MRS would be supplied with tractor-mounted hole diggers to
facilitate orchard expansion and other tree plantings. The 1 ha nursery
would include a section for tree multiplication to supply the cooperatives
and groups of individual farmers with seedlings for the establishment of
shelterbelts against dune movement, windbreaks for crop protection, and for
tree plantings to stabilize streambeds and control erosion in the upper
valleys. An estimated 10,000 seedlings, mostly Acacia and Prosopis ssp.
would be produced for building material, fuel wood and forage.
5.06     Livestock production.  A substantial increase in alfalfa and
fodder sorghum production will increase livestock production. Animal
health would be improved through the establishment of a veterinary team at
Nluqub, which wotuld be equipped with a mobile veterinary unit. Improved
feeding and animal health services would also increase meat production from
the estimated 50,000 sheep and goats in and around the project area.
D. Marketing and Prices
Demand and Marketing
5.07     The bulk of the commodities produced in Wadis Beihan and Ain are
either consumed on-farm or sold through village markets for local consump-
tion. In additi'on, significant quantities of basic grains, primarily wheat
which amounted to 1,200 mt in 1979, rice, flour, vegetable oil, sugar and
tea are imported into the region. The National Company for Home Trade
(NCHT) handles mrost of the food shipments from outside, plus local purchase
of grain (in 1979, 210 mt from individual farmers, 40 mt from state farm
and 32 mt from cooperatives) and its distribution to 26 consumer coopera-
tive outlets throughout the two wadis. The only significant export from
the Beihan District was potatoes, garlic and onions (total 1,000 mt in
1979) which are purchased by the PCMFV at standard national prices
delivered at the receiving station in Nuqub. The Corporation handles
transport to Aden by its own trucks and subsequent storage and distribu-
tion. There appears to be little or no shipment of livestock to other



- 32 -
parts of the country. However, direct sales of sheep and goats to Yemen
Arab Republic may account for the high livestock and alfalfa prices cur-
rently in effect.
5.08     At full development it is expected that the region will become
virtually self-sufficient in wheat, sesame, vegetables and meat, and
markets outside the region will have to be found for approximately 1,500
tons of onions and garlic, 3,000 tons of potatoes and 2,000 tons citrus.
No major difficulty is anticipated in marketing these items. Imports into
the country, in 1979/80 amounted to 6,000 tons of onions, 6,000 tons of
potatoes and 4,000 tons of citrus. At these levels the project would make
up a significant proportion of the national deficit, and without overall
growth in domestic demand there would be a risk of market saturation when
expanded production from Lodar, Mukairas, and Wadi Hadramawt is taken into
account. However, with a projected growth in domestic demand of 3-5 per-
cent annually, plus the possibility of provisioning ships calling at Aden,
it is unlikely that lack of demand will be a problem. The major constraint
on marketing over the next 10 years will continue to be transport. Until
the 158 km road from Beihan to Nisab is improved the region will continue
to be at a disadvantage relative to other areas which have, or will get,
good highway access to the principal markets on the coast. While there are
no firm dates for the second and third stages of the Beihan road project,
it is anticipated that by 1992, when full development is projected, the
road will have been completed.
Prices
5.09     Due to difficult physical production considerations, poor trans-
port and storage infrastructure and inadequate marketing and distribution
institutions, input costs are high and productivity of the agriculture
sector is low in PDRY. Because of isolation, this is particularly true of
the Wadi Beihan and Ain areas. Due to these conditions the Government has
adopted a policy of large scale price fixing and subsidies in an effort to
provide farmers with adequate incentives to produce while simultaneously
maintaining low consumer prices on basic foodstuffs. Price fixing has
covered grains, fruit and vegetables, oils, oil seeds and all imported
basic commodities such as rice, sugar, tea and coffee. Prices are regu-
lated for all major inputs such as fertilizer, seeds, and petroleum
products. Farmgate prices for products have been uniform throughout the
country, without regard to premium for location, season or quality.
Similarly input prices to farmers were standard regardless of transport and
distribution costs. In recent months the Government has relaxed a number
of these rigid policies and is considering further moves in this direction
(para. 5.12).
5.10     At the local level a number of commodities are traded outside the
Government regulated system which is handled by NCHT and PCMFV. For
instance in Beihan, preference for local wheat varieties has driven their
price 50 percent above the official price. In addition, prior to harvest
time sales have been recorded at more than double this price.



- 33 -
5.11     Because of the high proportion of individual farmers whose crop-
ping pattern is exempt from Government production targets applied to state
farms and cooperatives, a relatively high proportion of the output from
Beihan comprises commodities not subject to price control, in particular
alfalfa. Because of area restrictions on state farms and cooperatives in
the case of such items, their market price reflects a distortion resulting
from limited supply and high demand. This is particularly true of alfalfa
prices which are derived from the demand for livestock. The alfalfa
(green) price in Beihan in November 1980 was YD 75/mt (US$217). Since
roughly half the value of production from the project at full production
is expected to come from alfalfa, project performance is sensitive to this
price, hence for the financial and economic analysis it has been assumed
that supply and demand in the region would be equated at YD 40/mt
(US$116). Aside from alfalfa, financial prices in the analysis are based
on farmgate prices prevailing in the project area in 1980, and reflect the
local preference for local varieties over HYVs in the case of wheat.  For
the financial analysis of wheat it has been assumed that the price differ-
ential will be retained. All commodities except fodder (alfalfa, wheat and
barley straw, sorghum stover and fodder) were treated as tradables and
economic price was based on projected CIF price (Aden) plus or minus trans-
port costs to or from Beihan. Economic price of non-tradables was taken as
the 1980 market: price in Beihan assuming a standard conversion factor of 1
(Table 5.2).
Table 5.2; FARMGATE PRICES USED FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Financial Price      Economic Price
Items                                  Y.Din/ton  US$/ton   Y.Din/ton  US$/ton
Wheat, high yielding variety                225      652          153       444
Wheat, local variety                        300      870          153       444
Barley                                      250      725          125       362
Sorghum                                    218       632          125       362
Sesame                                     600    1,740           310       899
Onions                                       95      275           95       275
Potatoes                                    125      362          100       290
Summer vegetables                           70       203           80       232
Citrus                                      200      580          260       754
Alfalfa                                      40      116           40       116
Wheat straw                                  40      116           40       116
Barley straw                                 50      145           50       145
Sorghum stover                              40       116           40       116
Sorghum fodder                               50      145           50       145
5.12     The study on agricultural prices, taxation and subsidy policy,
presently being carried out by consultants for the Government through
financing of the Wadi Tuban Project (CR 768-YDR), is expected to provide
the data base and recommendations for a future price policy which would
include the project area. Assurances were obtained during negotiations



- 34 -
that the recommendations of this study will be reviewed by the Government
and IDA within 6 months of its completion and that implementation of the
agreed recommendations will commence within one year of the completion of
the said review.
E. Taxes and Cost Recovery
5.13     Under the existing taxation system all cooperatives and individual
farms pay in taxes 10% of the gross value of grain and oil seeds production
plus 10% of sales of all other products made through official municipal
markets or the NCHT and PCMFV. No tax is levied on state farms. There is
a special sales tax of YD 0.825/lb on qat; tractors and trucks pay an
annual registration fee of YD 12 (US$35) and YD 6 (US$17) respectively.
There is no tax on land or on net income, and no charge is made for main-
tenance of the spate irrigation system by the Department of Irrigation.
The cooperative members pay an additional 10% of gross value of grain and
sesame to their respective cooperative organizations. This charge is not
considered a tax or part of cost recovery; it is used to defray cooperative
management expenditures and interest on credit and certain charges for MRS
rentals which the cooperatives pay on behalf of members.
5.14     With development, it is anticipated that a considerably larger
volume of production, notably livestock, alfalfa and vegetables will be
marketed through official markets and the NCHT and PCMFV. Therefore, it is
assumed that at full development, aside from the on-farm gross production
tax on grains and oil seeds, approximately 80% of other products (except
straw and sorghum fodder) will be taxed at sale in municipal markets or to
the state marketing companies. In the case of alfalfa, the tax would be
reflected largely through livestock sales. On the basis of these assump-
tions and application of current taxation procedures, taxes would reach YD
330,000 (US$0.96 million) annually at full production.
5.15     Project costs considered eligible for recovery exclude technical
assistance, and investment for erosion control and river training units,
hydrometeorological stations and the feeder roads for which no benefits
have been quantified. Of the remaining capital investment of YD 3.46
million in the first five years, YD 1.11 million which is 23% of project
cost will be recovered from the beneficiaries as their direct contribution
towards the project costs or through recovery of short- and medium-terms
loans granted to them for MRS equipment, farm inputs, well deepening, pump-
ing equipment, orchard establishment, and for 50% of the cost of land
improvement works. The remaining costs, i.e., YD 2.35 million in project
costs plus YD 3.25 million in operation and maintenance between years 6 and
20, would be fully recovered through taxes over a 20-year period without
interest; expressing these costs and receipts as NPV at a 12% discount
rate, recovery of this component would be about 40%.



- 35 -
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND PROJECT RISKS
A. Beneficiaries and Financial Benefits
Beneficiaries
6.01     The project would directly benefit an estimated 820 cooperative
and 3,300 individual farmers on well-irrigated land. Further, with a
200-25C percent increase in net income from state farms (Annex 3, Table 2),
benefits should accrue to the 100 current employees plus those who provide
the incremental man-days per year required to meet projected production
levels. In addition, several hundred farmers whose income depends on spate
irrigation and livestock production would benefit from improved spate
maintenance and animal health services. An estimated total of about 5,000
families would thus benefit directly. Indirect benefits would be received
by most of the other 15,000 inhabitants through increased availability of
vegetables, fruit and meat, and through better access to markets and social
and administrative services as a result of feeder roads.
Financial Benefits
6.02     Four representative farm types were analyzed to assess the proj-
ected impact of the project. These comprised one 75 ha State farm and;
three units of 3 ha to 5 ha, each served by one well within which indivi-
dual operations averaged 0.8 ha, with manual work mostly done by family
labor. Returr to family labor would increase by 85% in Wadi Ain over a
5-year development period, while with on-farm and orchard development in
Wadi Beihan the-! increase would be 125% in 11 years. If family labor were
costed at the prevailing market rate for hired labor, the increase in net
farm income would range from 150 to 250%.  Family income is 18 to 25% of
farm income, as the farm types represent pumping units serving land culti-
vated by an average of six families in Wadi Beihan and four in Wadi Ain
(Annex 3, Table 2).
6.03     Increased income is derived from increased production resulting
from extension services, land and irrigation improvement, input use and
orchard development in the Wadi Beihan area, and from extension services
and input use in the Wadi Ain area.
Economic Benefits
6.04     In calculating the economic return, no benefits have been attri-
buted to the feeder roads, erosion control and river training, animal
health and hydrometereological components which amount to 17% of total
project costs (Annex 2). Under these assumptions the economic rate of
return (ERR) is estimated at 24%. All equipment and materials used in the
project are priced at the border (CIF Aden) plus transport and handling to
Beihan. Border prices, plus or minus transport and handling to or from



- 36 -
Aden according to whether final consumption is in Aden or in the project
area, were applied to all products except alfalfa, straw and fodder
sorghum. In view of the labor shortage prevalent in the region labor was
valued at the full market wage. In absence of any evaluation of the shadow
exchange rate the standard conversion factor (SCF) for non-tradables was
assumed at 1.
6.05     The sensitivity analysis, analyzed further in paras. 6.06-6.08
below, shows the following switching values for project performance indi-
cators at a 12% opportunity cost of capital:
Decrease in price of alfalfa                      50%
Increase in farm production costs (annual)        25%
Increase in incremental costs with project        70%
Decrease in gross farm benefits                   25%
Lag in achievement of project benefits              3 years
Project Risks
6.06     The principal risks of not achieving the expected project objec-
tives are associated with potential mining of the aquifer, delays in imple-
menting on-farm development related to possible shortfalls in the extension
and credit programs, higher costs of production and in particular the costs
of meeting peak labor demands if the current labor market conditions
persist, and reluctance of individual farmers and cooperatives to adopt the
technology packages proposed, either because of risk and uncertainty with
respect to financial incentives, or excessive demands on family labor.
6.07     The risks associated with potential drawdown of the aquifer which
would result in higher cost of water and eventually in progressive reduc-
tion in area irrigated, are minimized by the initially conservative
approach to any new well development in the project area (para. 4.18).
Further, it is anticipated that more efficient use of spate water on a
larger area of both spate and well irrigated lands will reduce pumping and
increase aquifer recharge. Should the hydrogeological studies conclude
that pumping cannot be sustained at current levels steps will be taken to
adjust areas and/or cropping intensity to adjust to the lowered water
supply. In either case none of the investments made under the project
would be wasted though the project benefits would be reduced. As indicated
by the sensitivity analysis (para. 6.05) gross output could be reduced 25
percent before the ERR would drop below the expected opportunity cost of
capital (12%). Probability of such a drastic reduction in area is small.
6.08     The most serious risk lies in delay in realizing the production
benefits. There is a probability that project implementation may be slower
than projected, but as long as the delays in the benefit stream are not
disproportionately larger there should be no significant effect on the
ERR. More serious would be an expenditure pattern as projected without the
expected on-farm production response. 1i response lags more than three
years behind that expected, or output reaches less than 75% of the pro-



- 37 -
jected level, the ERR would drop below 12%.  Uncertainties exist with
respect to performance of the extension and credit components and labor
market conditions and to the financial incentives which depend to a large
extent on Government's overall prices and subsidy policy necessary for
farmer adoption of improved water management and intensified production
techniques. In order to deal with unforeseen events of this nature, a
strong managemenit component has been built into the project over its first
five years. At the end of that time it is expected that the MAAR will have
a well qualified team servicing the project area capable of providing agri-
cultural services adapted to changing price, labor or water resource
conditions.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     The following conditions of effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement were agreed during negotiations:
(i)  signing of the Loan Agreement by the Government with the other
external source of financing (para. 3.17);
(ii)  establishment by the Government of BPU at Beihan with organization
and terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para. 4.05); and
(iii)  entering by the Government into a subsidiary loan agreement with
NBY for relending a part of the Project funds to state farms,
cooperatives and individual farmers (para. 4.13).
7.02     During negotiations agreements were also reached and assurances
obtained on the principal issues in Chapters III, IV and V. Subject to the
conditions of effectiveness described in para. 7.01, the Project is suit-
able for an IDA Credit of 6.6 million Special Drawing Rights (US$8.0 mil-
lion equivalent) on standard terms. The Borrower would be the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen.



-38-                          ANNEX I
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of Project Works
General
1.       The civil works included in the Project are:  (a) office and
houses for the Project staff at Beihan; (b) extension centers, stores, and
nursery and experimental farm works; (c) spate irrigation and erosion
control works; (d) feeder roads; and (e) well improvement and on-farm works.
Offices and Houses for Project Staff
2.       No suitable office and residential buildings are available at
Beihan to provide office and residential accommodation for the Project
staff. An office building of about 200 m2 floor area, five residential
buildings of 100 m2 floor area each, and seven residential buildings of
80 m2 floor area each will, therefore, be constructed at Beihan to estab-
lish the Project headquarters. After the completion of the Project, these
buildings will serve as the headquarters of the agricultural services of
the district of Beihan. To ensure expeditious construction of the build-
ings, they would be of precast or prefabricated construction, safe against
weather and termites and would be procured under International Comparative
Shopping, complete with fittings and furnishings. They will be connected
to the Beihan's water supply and electric system but would have their own
sewage disposal system and a standby electric generator.
Extension Centers, Stores, Nursery and Experimental Farm Works
3.       Fifteen extension centers will be constructed to provide office
and residential accommodation to the agricultural extension, veterinary and
pilot farm staff. These extension centers are proposed to be constructed
in Al-Hadga, Al-Alia and Shamla in Markaz Al-Alia; Nuqub, Usailan and
Zubaiban in Markaz Usailan and at Al-Hagb, Darb Al-Falaheen and Darb
Al-Umaal in Markaz Al-Ain. Each extension center will be of 80 m2 floor
area and will be of cement block or brick masonry construction with timber
roofing. Small electric generator sets will be provided for each center
for serving the residences and facilitating meetings with the farming
community. Three stores of 100 m2 floor area each will be constructed,
one each in Markaz Al-Alia, Markaz Usaylan and Markaz Al-Ain, for storing
farm inputs. These will be constructed with masonry or hollow cement block
valls, concrete floors and galvanized iron roofs with timber roof trusses.
The pilot farm will be established at Nuqub in Timnah state farm on 8.0 ha
plot. The works to be done for the farm will include improving water



-39-
ANNEX I
Page 2
distribution by canal lining on one half of the area and using plastic
pipes on the other, and by installing experimental drip and sprinkler irri-
gation systems on a 2.6 hectare plot in the farm.  A fenced area of 1.0 ha
will be prepared for citrus nursery in Nuqub.
Spate Irrigatiort and Erosion Control
4.       Three types of diversion structures which have been traditionally
used for diversion of spate water for irrigation are: (i) submersible
spurs formed by low submersible embankments made of rubble masonry project-
ing longitudinal'ly into the river bed; (ii) temporary spurs formed by
earthfill embankments projecting into the river perpendicular to its center
line protected at their extremity by a dry stone head structure; and (iii)
temporary dams w,Thich are earthfill embankments 3 to 4 m high constructed
across the entire bed width of the wadi. Sixty-six such structures compris-
ing 26 submersible spurs, 18 temporary spurs and 22 temporary dams were
inventoried by SOGREAH in 1977, many of which were in bad need of repairs.
In fact, in each large flood, several of these structures get damaged and
the farmers and the irrigation department's existing arrangements do not
permit their adequate repair and the spate irrigation system continues to
deteriorate. During feasibility studies of the Wadi Beihan Project, con-
sideration was given to remodel the existing system, replacing it with a
more dependable system of diversion structures. However, with the present
knowledge of Wadi Beihan's hydrology which is derived from a very short
record, no other economically viable solution, except for adequate main-
tenance of the traditional diversion system, could be found. The Project
would therefore provide means for continued maintenance oL the traditional
system. The capacity of the maintenance unit would be such that it could
reconstruct annually about a third of the total earthfill embankment esti-
mated to be about 60,000 m3. For this purpose, the Project would provide
equipment, including three bulldozers, one front-end loader, two tipper
trucks, and two concrete mixers with an adequate quantity of spares and
tools. It would also provide materials for repair of submersible spurs,
the head of temporary spurs and structures on the canals. The following
materials were estimated to be required: cement 325 ton; gabions 2,000
m3 steel reimforcements 5 ton; and timber 50 m3, and are included in
the Project estimates. The work involved in rehabilitation of the spate
irrigation system will be of maintenance nature, not suitable for contract-
ing and will therefore be done by force account.
5.       The earthen embankments (dams) which are at present constructed in
the wadi are between three to four meters high, uncompacted, of a uniform
height and fairly narrow at the crest (less than 0.5 m). They do not stand
up to floods very well and often collapse before fulfilling their purpose.
Under the Project, the construction of the embankments (dams) will be
improved. Their widths will be increased and height reduced. They will be
compacted under the self load of the construction machinery. Instead of
constructing the entire embankment of a uniform height, they would be
constructed tapering to a lower height towards the canal inlet so that they
are overtopped or breached in the vicinity of the canal's inlet ensuring a



-40-                          ANNEX I
Page 3
deeper channel in the wadi bed closer to the inlet for better canal opera-
tion. The embankment's tapering height will also assist in limiting the
damage to the embankments (dams) only towards one end where these would be
overtopped and prevent excessive heading up of the flood water which causes
extensive damage to the existing dams when they breach under its pressure.
6.       At several places in Wadi Beihan, habitations, livestock sheds,
barns and other infrastructure elements are threatened by erosion of the
banks by floods. The most vulnerable place is the southern part of Ghabar
Village on Wadi Nahr, 8 km south of Beihan, where a part of the village is
in danger of falling into the river. No specific studies have been made
about protection works along the Wadi Beihan's embankment but it is evident
that some bank protection schemes will have to be executed during Project
implementation to protect sites like Ghabar Village. The irrigation
specialist hired for the Project would study the problem closely and excute
protection works where required. For the purpose of Project provision, it
is estimated that a major river bank protection scheme 400 m long would
require 8,000 m3 of gabions (transverse section 20 m2).  A medium-sized
scheme, 200 m in length and 10 m2 transverse section would need
2,000 m3 of gabions. The project provides for constructing two such
major protection schemes and six medium-sized protection schemes.
Feeder Roads
7.       Wadi Beihan is located 560 km from Aden and can be reached by an
asphalt road as far as Naqabah 330 km, and from there by a rough track of
230 km. Improvement of the first section of this track (Naqbah-Ataq-
Nisab: 92 km) is proposed under an IDA-assisted project to be completed by
mid-1984.  Improvement of two other sections Nisab-Bir-Gifiyah and Bir
Gifiyah-Nuqub-Beihan is not yet scheduled, though the Government proposes
to give priority of construction to Bir Gifiyah-Nuqub-Beihan segment which
will serve the overall Project area. Within the Project area, Wadis Khirr
and Nahr are served by tracks transitable by four-wheel drive vehicles in
all weather. Wadi Ain is connected by a similar track with Wadi Beihan.
The central valley between Beihan and Nuqub is served by two tracks, one on
each bank of the wadi. The track on the north side of the wadi will be
improved as part of Bir Gifiyah-Nuqub-Beihan segment's construction. Below
Nuqub, where agricultural activities under the Project will be concen-
trated, the feeder tracks serving the wadi are in very poor condition and
even four-wheel drive vehicles find difficulty in negotiating them because
of numerous potholes full of dust and steep embankments built for spate
irrigation. Establishment of new feeder roads in the lower Nuqub Plain
appears a prerequisite to agricultural development in the wadi and the
Project would provide for the construction of the road infrastructure in
this part of the Wadi only.
8.       The following villages having a population of about 14,000 would
be served by the proposed feeder road network which will total about 16.4
km (Map No. IBRD 15506).



-41-
ANNEX I
Page 4
Villages to be         Road Length          Villages to be          Road Length
Connected                 (km)              Connected                 (km)
Nuqub Village
Al Urayq                    1.5             Umm Uthaym
Al Hima                     2.0             Al Sahal                     2.3
Usaylan                     3.6
Umm Uthaym                  1.3
Daghit                      2.8
Zubayban                    1.1
Umayrah                     1.8
These roads will be constructed on compacted earthen embankments which will
be one meter high on the average and six meters wide at the top of the road
surface. They will have a gravel surfacing 15 cm thick. The earth for
embankments will be obtained from the borrow areas adjacent to the road-
way. The gravel surfacing will be of suitable screened alluvial material
obtained from Wadi Beihan.  Cross drainage culverts and syphons will be
provided under the roads at approximately 200 m intervals in the irrigated
areas and at about 400 m intervals for the remainder of the alignment.
Other design criteria for road curvatures and culvert loadings will be the
same as for gravel roads established by the Ministry of Construction who
will construct these roads under negotiated contract. The construction
cost of these roads, which was estimated in consultation with the Director
of Design of the Ministry of Construction, is YD 15,000 per km including
its design and construction supervision by the Ministry of Construction.
Well Improvement and On-Farm Works
9.       The well improvement works will comprise deepening and lining 88
existing shallow wells (para. 3.06) in the Wadi Beihan command area. The
work will be done by the traditional well sinking labor available in the
Project area, under the control of the well owners. Technical supervision
will be provided by the Project staff. The individual farmers will contri-
bute 20% of the cost of work from their own resources and for the rest
obtain medium-term credit from the local branch of the National Bank of
Yemen.
10.      On-farm irrigation systems will be improved on 950 ha of land
irrigated from shallow wells and tubewells in the Wadi Beihan command. The
work would consist of: (i) lining the existing or realigned water courses
or replacing them with PVC pipes; and (ii) carrying out land levelling.
The area considered is divided as follows: (a) 150 ha in two existing
state farms; (b) 500 ha, representing the area irrigated by the improved
shallow wells in the Nuqub Plain; and (c) 300 ha in the middle reach of
Wadi Beihan and Wadis Khirr and Nahr. Detailed designs of improvement
works have been prepared by SOGREAH and are given in their report "Document
R32.0668". The main features of the four techniques recommended for water
courses improvement are as follows:



-42-
ANNEX I
Page 4
Al   -    Existing water courses would be maintained and lined with 3
cm thick concrete, reinforced with a thin wire netting. The
intakes would be equipped with hand-operated steel sluices.
A2   -    Fixed PVC pipes (dia. 160 mm) would be laid in the existing
water courses and covered with earth for protection. Move-
able PVC pipes connected by tees to the fixed pipes would be
moved according to irrigation needs. Density of pipes would
be about 90 m/ha.
B1   -    Layout of existing network would be realigned, masonry water
courses would be constructed with concrete off-takes. Con-
crete culverts would be provided to allow access of tractors
to the fields.
B2   -    Layout of existing network would be realigned.  PVC pipes
(dia. 160 mm) network equipped with hydrant valves will be
laid, to which light alloy moveable pipes (dia. 125 mm) would
be connected at the head of each parcel. Density of pipes
would be around 80 m/ha.
Techniques Bi and B2 will be used in the state farms where major changes in
the existing fields' alignments would be possible. Fifty percent of the
cost of land improvement works will be subsidized by the Government and for
the remainder cost, medium-term credit will be provided to the beneficia-
ries by the NBY.



-43-
ANNEX 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                         Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
Foreign
Local       Foreign        Total       Local        Foreign        Total        Exchange
=  ---- YD Million ----------          --------- US$ Million ---------
Project Management
Administrative and Engineering
Staff, Consultants and Training             0.22        0.54           0.76         0.64        1.57           2.21
Office and Staff Housing                     0.05        0.20           0.25        0.14         0.58           0.72
Equipment                                     -          0.08           0.08          -          0.23           0.23
Operational Cost                             0.03        0.03           0.06         0.09        0.09           0.18
Subtotal                                 0.30         0.85           1.15        0.87         2.47           3.34           74
Agricultural Extension
Extension Staff                             0.22         0.06           0.28        0.64         0.17           0.81
Equipment and Materials                                  0.16           0.16          -          0.46           0.46
Extension Centers, Store and
Experimental Farm Works                     0.08        0.12           0.20        0.23         0.35           0.58
Operational Cost                             0.03        0.04           0.07         0.09        0.11           0.20
Subtotal                                 0.33         0.38           0.71        0.96         1.09           2.05           53
Farm LnPuts - Supply and Distribution
Staff, Equipment and Operational Cost        0.04        0.02           0.06         0.11        0.06           0.17
Farm Inputs                                  0.03        0.25           0.28         0.09        0.72           0.81
Subtotal                                 0.07         0.27           0.34        0.20         0.78           0.98           80
Spate Irrigation Improvements
Equipment and Materials                      0.02        0.21           0.23         0.06        0.61           0.67
Diversion Works                              0.10        0.17           0.27         0.29        0.49           0.78
Subtotal                                 0.12         0.38           0.50        0.35         1.10           1.45           76
Erosion Control and River Training           0.14        0.22           0.36         0.40        0.64           1.04           62
Wells Improvement and On-Farm Works          0.33        0.48           0.81         0.96        1.39           2.35           59
Equipment for MRS                             -          0.16           0.16          -          0.46           0.46          100
Feeder Roads
Civil Works                                  0.12        0.13           0.25         0.35        0.38           0.73
Maintenance                                  0.02         0.12          0.14         0.06         0.35          0.41
Subtotal                                  0.14        0.25           0.39         0.41        0.73           1.14           64
Hydrometeorological Stations                  -          0.01           0.01          -          0.03           0.03          100
Base Cost                                    1.43        3.00           4.43         4.15        8.69          12.84
Contingencies:  Physical                     0.10        0.24           0.34         0.29        0.70           0.99
Price                       0.51         0.97          1.48         1.48         2.81          4.29
Total Cost                                2.04        4.21           6.25         5.92       12.20          18.12           67



PEOPL 'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OP YYEU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIRAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Project Costs
Y-ar I ____                --- Year 2 ------            ----- Year 3                       o-----  ----- yeat 4 ------  ----- Year - S ----
Local        Paeizo         Local                        Local        Perian         Local        Porreie         Local        Foreign         Total        Loc__a   _   Foreign
Prolect Masagen..nt and ERiainering
Technical Assistance and Training                   -           44.0            _           120.0            -           119.0           -           124.0            -            69.0          476.0          -           476.0
Admnisitrative and Enginesring Staff              35.5           16.0          44.5          16.0          44.5           16.0          44.5          16.0           46.5                                                    64.0
Subtotal                                       35.0          60.0          44.1         136.0           44.5         135.0           44.5         140.0          46.5           69.0         755.5         215,5         540.0
Contingecies:  Prit.                               5.o           8.4            9.8          30.0          14.2          43.2           18.2          57.4           23.3          34.5          244.0         70.5         173.5
Offics sad Staff Heusing                           5.0           20.0          20.0          80.0          25.4          101.6           -             -              -             -            252.0         50.4          201.6
Coatingescine:  Physical                           0.5           2.0            2.0           8.0           2.5           10.2           -             -              -             -             25.2          5.0          20.2
Price                             0.8           3.1           4.8           19.3           8.9          35.8            -             -             _              _            72.7          14.5          58.2
Equipment                                          -            10.0            -            30.0           -             30.0           -             S.0            -             -             75.0          -             75.0
Contiugnctie,  physical                            _             1.0            -             3.0           -              3.0           -             0.5            -             -              7.5          -              7.5
price                             -             1.5           -              7.3           -            10.6            -             2.3           -              -            19.4           -            19.5
Opecational Costs                                  1.5           1.5            3.0           3.0          11.5           11.5          11.0          11.0            6.0           5.5           65.5         33.0          32.5
Cuatlagasuies:  physical                           0.2           0.1            0.3           0.3           1.1            1.1           1.1           1.2            0.6           0.6            6.6          3.3            3.3
price                             0.2           0.2           0.7            0.7           4.0           4.0            5.0           5.0           3.3            3.1          26.2          13.2          13.0
RAiulus  EatenSian
Exteasion  ad pilot Pa.m  Staff                   24.5           8.0          40.0           24.0          47.5          24.0           54.1           -             54.1           -            276.2        220.2           56.0
Contingencies:  physical                           -             -              -             -
priCe                             3.4           1.1           8.8           5.3           15.2           7.7          22.2            -            27.0            -            90,7          76.6          14.1
Equipment and Expend.ble Materials                 -            39.0            -            75.0           -            35.0            -             6.0            -             7.0          162.0          -           162.0
Contingencies:  Physical                                         3.9                          7.5                           .5                         0.6            -             0.7           16.2          -             16.2
price                             -             6.0           -            18,1            -            12.3            -             2.7           -              3.9          43.0           -            43.0
Etianaion Centers, Stores, and Nursery
and Experimental Farm  Works                     16.0          24.0          32.0          48.0           33.0          49.0            -             -              -             -           202.0          81.0         121.0
Contingencies:  Physical                           1.6           2.4           3.2            4.8           3.3           4.9            -             _              _             _             20.2          8.1          1Z2I
price                             2.5           3.7           7.5          11.6           11.6          17.2           -              -             -              -            54.1          21.6          32.5
Operational Cost                                   1.0           1.0           3.0            3.0           9.5           9.5           12.0          12.0          10.0           10.0           71.0         35.5          35.5
ContingencIe:  PlYoical                            0.1           0.1           0.3            0.3           1.0           0.9            1.2           1.2            1.0           1.0            7.1          3.6            3.5
price                             0.1           0.2           0.7           0.7            3.4           3.3           5.4            5.4           5.5            5.5          30.2          15.1          35.1
Inputa S.al   a  5srbta
Procureu ent and pictribution Staff                4.3           _7.3                                       7.3                          73                          7.3                         33.           3.5
Contisgencies:  Physical                           -                    -                     -                    -
price                             0.6           -             1.6           -              2.3           -             3.0            -             3.6            _            11.1          11.1           -
Equipment                                          -             4.4           -            13.0            -             -              _      -                     - _                         17.4          -            17.4
Contingencies:  Physical                                         0.4                          1.3           -             -              _             _                            -              1.7          -             1.7
Price                             -             0.7           -             3.1            -             -             -              _                            _             3.8           _             38
operational Cost                                   0.5           0.0           1.0            1.0           1.8           1.9            1.9           1.8            1.8           1.9           14.1          7.0            7.1
Contingencies:  FhYsicl                           -             -             0.1            0.1           0.2           0.2            0.2           0.2           0.2            0.2            1.4          0.7           0.7
prico                            0.1            0.1           0.2           0.2           0.6            0.7           0.9            0.8           1.0            1.0           5.6           2.8           2.8
Fare Inputs                                        -             -            17.0         153.0           11.0         101.0            -             _-                           -           282.0          28.0         254.0
Contingenciesa:  phYc1                             _                           1.7          15.3            1.1          10.1            -                                                       2 -  28.2      2.8          25,4
o,ice                            _              _             4.1          37.0           3.9           35.6           -              _             _              _            80.6          8.0           72.6
tz 1



- Year 1 ------              - Year 2 ------               ----- Year 3 ------4  Yoad                       ----              --  Years --
Icl              ral                l          For-in           Loa1 Flornigo                   Local          t     -orga       Local          Foreign           Tota      l    Local         0y,0-100
Srat.t trri avion                              _~~~~~----------------- ___   ------------------------  ~~~~~~~~~~~-~--~--------------- YD  '000    - ------------___ ___ __- I-----------  ---------__   ----------___--___---____---
OtalPaoent cnd Materials                             -               -              7.0            106.0            7.0             108.0             -               -                                -             228.0            14.0           214.0
CnOtingoncoes.   Physical                            -0.7                                           10.6            0.7              10.8             -                                -               _              22.S             1,4            21.4
Prie                               -                              1.7             25.6            2.5              38.0             -               -                -               -              67.8            4.2             63.6
Ccnalrwctioo Costs                                  10.             18. 9          22.0              37.4          22.0              37.4            22.0            37.4            22.0             37.4           267.3            98.8           168.5
Cacln6g,c1        lPhyaicol                          I.1             1.9            2.2              3.7            2.2               3.7             2.2             3.6             2.2              3.7            26.7             9.9            16.8
Price                              1,7             2.9            5.3              9.0            2.7              I3;,             9.9            16.9             12.1            20.5            99.1            36.7            62.4
Eroia Control ad Rivor Tr-ininS                     14.4            21.6           32.4             48.6           32.4              48.6            32.4            48.6             32.4            48.6           360.0          144,0            216.0
COntilOancIaa.   Phyalcfl                            1.4             2.2            3.2              4.9            3.2               4.9             3.2             4.9              3.2             4.9            36.0            14.4            21.6
Price                              2.2             3.3            7.8              11.8          11.4              17.1            14.6            21.9             17.8            26.8           134.7            5368            80.9
Onsj ia,emrevn,not and la-Fore Wlocko
OOepn4j00 Walle                                      -                -             6.1               2.0            6.1              2.0             6.0              2.1             6.1             2.0             32.4           24.3              8.1
Contttgrnciet.  Phyoical                                                           0.6               0.2            0.6              0.2             0.6             0.2              0.6             0.2              3.2            2.4              8.6
Prico                              -               -              1.5              0.5            2.1               0.7             2.7             0.9             3.4              1.1            12.9             9.7             3.2
P-apig Iqapern-                                                                    -               60.0                             61.3             -                -               -               -             121.3             -             121.3
COttllnaaclen.i  PhyI1cal                             -               -             -                 6.0            -                6.1              -                _              -               -               12.1            -              12.1
Price                              -               -              -               14.5             -               21.6 _6-                                          -               -              36.1             -              36.1
PinId L-valling and Water Cooran Lining             12.2             18.3           32.0             48.0           53.4             80.1            61.6            92.4             61.6            92.4            552.0          220.0            331,2
COslngtarncles    Plyaicol                           1.2              1.9            3.2              4.8            5.3              8.0             6.2              9.2             6.2             9.2             55.2           22.1            13.1
Price                              1.9             2.8            7.7              11.6           15.8             28.2            27.8            41,7             33.9            10.8            225.2           90.1           035.1
Or.harn Ststablinhn-at                               6.2              1.6            9.3              2.3           15.5              3.9            31.0              7.7            18.0             4.5            100.0           80.0            20.0
C200t1.agrarso,   PhysIcal                            D.6             0.2           0.9               0.2            1,6              0.4             3.1              0.8             1.8             0.             10.0            6 0              2.0
Price                              1.0             0.3            2.2              0.6             5.5              1.4            14.0             3.5              9.9             2.5            40.09           32 6             8.3
OOOlaaaot: Par Olachinree e nel.asc   Slatin           -              7.0            -               84.8            -               72.7              -               -               -                -             164.5            -              164.5
!Ontlsoesciea:   Physical                                             0.7            -                8.5            -                7.3                               _                                _             16.5                            16.3
Prite                                              1.1            -               20.5             -               25.6             -                -                                               47.2            -              47.2
Civil Works                                          10.0            10.0           35.0             35.0           40.0             40.0            38.0             38.0             _                _             246.0          123.0            123.0
Conoingrncbrs   Physica1                              1.0             1.0            3.5              3.5            4.0              4.0              3.8             3.8              _               -              24.6           12.3             12.3
Price                              1.5             1.5            8,5               8.5          14.1              14.1            17.1            17.1              -               -               82.4           41.2            41.2
E.ltopmneot                                                           -              -               50.0            -               50.0                              -                                              100.0                           100.0
C-nlttan-cia.   Phys,ice1                                                                           5 .0                             5.0                                                                             10.0                            10,0
Prior                               -               -             -                12.1            -               17.6              -               -               -                -              29.7            -              29.7
oads "ainternce                                                                                                      4.0                .0               0             8.0             8.0              6.0            40.0            20,0            20.0
co-tnnci0 4hyical                                     -                                                                                0               0.6a            o,8             0.0              0.8             4.0             2.0             2.0
PrIce                                                             -                 -               .4              1.4             3.6              3.6             4.4             4.4             18.8            9,4              9.4
flPdrnnnceornlacoaal Station                           '              -              2.7             10.7            -                 -               -               -                -               -              13,4             2.7            10.7
Colntingeiss:  Phyocal                                -               -              0.3              1.1            -                 -               -               -                -               -                1.4            0.3             1.1
yrtce                                                                                2,- 6.7  0.6                                                                                                     3.3            0.7              2.6
A.01



PEOPLE 'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Management and Administration - Cost Estimate-
Year I ----1                ----- Year 2 ------           ----- Yer 3 ------            ---- Year 4 ------           ----- Year 5 ------
No.           Cost           No.           Cost            No.           Cot             No.           Cost           No.            Cost          Total           Local         Foreign
Technical AssocanTrineStallf
Project Manager                                    ½             11.0           1             22.0            1             22.0            1             22.0            1             22.0          99.0             -              99.0
Irrigation Engineer .                                            11.0           1             22.0            1             22.0            1             22.0            -              -            77.0             -              77.0
Entenaino  Specialist                              ½             11.0           1              22.0           1             22.0            1             22.0            -              -             77.0            -              77.0
Credit Specialist                                  -              -             1             22.0            i             11.0            -              -              -              -            33.0             -              33.0
Hydrglogist                                        i             11.0           1              22.0           1             22.0            1             22.0           i              11.0          88.0             -              88.0
Training (200 man-months)                                         _                            10.0                         20.0                          20.0                          20.0           70.0            -              70.0
Co.amlt.nts                                                                                  ___                           ___                            16.0                          l6.(          32.0             -              32.0
Sob-total                                                    44.0                         120.0                         119.0                         124.0                          69.0         476.0                          476.0
General Administration Stall
Ce.eral18.1199 Co-maniager.:J~nStll               1              2.4           1               2.4           1              2.4            1              2.4           1               2.4          12.0            12.0             -
Projecat Comngr1                                                  1.8           1               1.8           1              1.1            1              1.8           1               1.8            9.0            9.0-
Adninietrative Officet                             1              1.8           1               1.8           1              1.8            1              1.8            1              1.8            9.0            9.0
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer                  1              1.8           1               1.8           1              1.8            1              1.8            1              1.8            9.0            9.0
M.itoring Inspector                                1              1.5           1               1.5           1              1.5            1              1.5            1              1.5            7.5            7.5
Soni-tarin1 Steff                                  2              3.0           4              6.0            4              6.0           4               6.0           4               6.0          27.0            27.0
Drivers                                            3              3.0           6              6.0            6              6.0            6              6.0           6               6.0          27.0            27.0
Sub-total                                                    15.3                          21.3                          21.3                          21.3                          21.3         100.5           100.5             -
Extension Staff
Extension Co-manager                               1              2.0           1              2.0            1              2.0            1              2.0           1                .0          10.0
Entension Officers  (E) /2                         1              8.0           3             24.0            3             24.0            3              5.4           3               5.4          66.8            10.8           56.0
Veterinary Officer                                 -              -             1              2.0            1              2.0            1              2.0           1               2.0           8.0             8.0            -
Veterinary Assistant                               -              -             1              1.5            2              3.0           2               3.0           2               3.0          10.5            10.5            -
Extansion Agents                                   3              4.5           6              9.0           10             15.0          10              15.0          10              15.0          58.5            58.5            -
Secretarial Aseistent                             1               1.5           2              3.0            2              3.0           2               3.0           2               3.0          13.5            13.5            -
Nursery Technicians                                1              1.2           1              1.2            1              1.2           2               2.4           2               2.4           8.4             8.4            -
Sorcery Laborers                                  4               4.0           4              4.0            4              4.0           4               4.0           4               4.0          20.0            20.0            -
Drivers                                           2               2.0           5              5.0            5              5.0           5               5.0           5               530          22.0            22.0            -a
Sub-total                                                    23.2                          51.7                          59.2                         41.8                          41.8          217.7           161.7          56.0
RPilotearns Staf                                   1              1.8           1              1.8            1              1.8           1               1.8           1               1.8           9.0             9.0            -
Agricultural AssO eti Ot                          1               1.5           1              1.5            1              1.5           1               1.5           1               1.5           7.5             7.5
Lagborers-    A.Sist.-t                           5              5.0            8              8.0           8               8.0           8               8.0           8               8.0          37.0            37.0           -
Laborers                                          1               1.0           1              1.0           1               1.0           1               1.0           1               1.0           5.0             5.0           -
Drivers                                                          9.3                          12.3                          12.3                          12.3                          12.3          58.5            58.5           -
I.put Procorerant and   rltbotiom Stall
Prcemt and Distribution Gfficer                   1              1.8            1              1.8           1               1.8           1               1.8           1               1.8           9.0             9.0           -
St.rocur KenP.,-/A--t--t                         1               1.5           3              4.5           3               4.5           3              4.5            3              4.5           19.5            19.5           -
Drive    p     A                                  1               1.0           1              1.0           1               1.0           1               1.0           1               1.0             o             5.0           -
D ub-tstal                                                    4.3                           7.3                          7.3                           7.3                           7.3           33.5           33.3            -
EnRineerin   8teff                                1              8.0            1              8.0           1               8.0           1              8.0            1              2.0           34.0             2.0          32.0
Civilrenineork Inspector2                                        3.0            4              6.0           4               6.0           4              6.0            4               6.0          27.0            27.0           -
soreny-(E)                                        1              8.0            1              8.0           1               8.0           1              8.0            -               -            32.0             -            32.0
Surveyor  (0)                        ~       ~      ~~~~          ~       ~      ~~1 1.8  1  1.8  1             1.8           1               1.8           1               1.8           9.0             9.0            -
Ausiatast Surveyor                                1              1.8            1              1.8           1               1.8           1              1.8            1               1.8           9.0             9.0
Drafts-an                                         4              4.0            4              4.0           4               4.0           4              4.0            4              4.0           20.0            20.0
Sorvery sep                                       3              3.0            3              3.0           3               3.0           3              3.0            3              3.0           15.0           15.0            -
sD b-trtar                                                   29.6                         32.6                          32.6                          32.6                          18.6         146.0            82.0           64.0
Surface end GronutO  oiornStl
Assieteot nydrogeoloElst                          1              1.8            1              1.8           1               1.8           1              1.8            1              1.8            9.0            9.0            -
Gauge and Mete-ro1oRiCOl Stotion Recordero        4              4.8           4               4.8           4              4.8            4              4.8            4              4.8           24.0           24.0
Sob-total                                                     6.6                           6.1                          6.6                           6.6                           6.6          33.0            33.0
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                          L1065.2           469.2          596.0
oo    goeor  i touanY oiDier.     olryOtsoloalstllinlude  proinon lot hardship ollowase.
/2  Poets which could not be li]led by lroal stall of ceqolisire quolificottons oilS he fIlled with e-patriata.s   Likely
-   poste to he f1lled hy aepatriates in lien oE local atal  are distInguished hy the letter (E) in the estiet.>



-47-                                     ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment and Supplies - Cost Estimate
Estimated
Quantity             Cost
(YD '000)
Project Management
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles (standard)                     5                15.0
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles (long base)                    4                12.0
4-Wheel Drive Pickups                                 2                 6.0
Motorcycles                                           2                 1.4
Spare Parts                                          LS                10.6
Office, Survey and Household                         LS                30.0
Subtotal                                                            75.0
Agricultural Extension
(a)  Transport:
4--Wheel Drive Vehicles (standard)               4                12.0
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles (long base)               2                 8.0
4-Wheel Drive Pickups                            2                 6.0
Motorcycles                                     16                11.2
Mobile Veterinary Unit                           1                12.0
Spare Parts                                     LS                15.0
Subtotal                                                       64.2
(b) Extension and Demonstrations:
Tractors (40-50 HP)                              3                13.5
Disc Plough                                      2                 1.0
Chisel Plough                                    1                 0.6
Tyne Tiller                                      3                 1.0
Seeder Attachment                                3                 1.2
Multipurpose Blade                               3                 1.1
Border Disc                                      3                 1.8
Trailer Tipping                                  3                 3.0
P:Lot Threshers                                  3                 1.2
Thresher                                         1                 1.0
Garden Tractor with Implements                   1                 4.5
Knapsack Motor Sprayer                           1                 0.1
Knapsack Sprayers                                5                 0.2
Roman Balance (50 kg) )                         10)
Platform Scales        )                         5)                0.6
Power Tiller                                     2                 3.0
Audiovisual Equipment                                              5.0
Grain Storage Bins                               5                 3.0
Seed Cleaning Drums                              5                 0.3
Seed Storage Barrels                            10                 0.3
Electric Generators                                                3.5
Spares at 30%                                                     13.5
Subtotal                                                       59.4



-48-                                    ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 2
Estimated
Quantity                  Cost
(YD '000)
(c) Expendable Materials:
Experiments, Demonstrations, Nursery
Polyethylene Bags                                                    0.6
Urea                                                                 2.9
DAP                                                                  2.1
Plant Protection Chemicals                                           0.7
Seeds and Plant Materials                                            1.2
Small Tools                                                          0.3
Office Supplies and Equipment                                        1.2
Veterinary Medicines                                                15.0
Subtotal                                                        24.0
(d)  Household Equipment                                                 14.4
Input Supplies and Distribution
5-ton Truck                                            1                 10.0
Pickups                                                2                  6.0
Motorcycles                                             2                 1.4
Subtotal                                                              17.4
Spate Irrigation
Equipment
Bulldozer (D4 or equivalent)                            1                 22.0
Bulldozer (D6 or equivalent)                            2                 62.0
Front End Loader                                        1                 20.0
Tipper Trucks                                           2                 24.0
Concrete Mixers                                         2                  5.0
Spare Parts and Tools                                  LS                40.0
Materials                                              LS                 55.0
Subtotal                                                             228.0
Machinery Rental Stations
Tractors (60-70 HP)                                    15                69.8
Chisel Ploughs                                          5                 3.0
Disc Ploughs                                            5                 2.5
Tyne Tillers                                           10                 3.4
Seeder Attachments                                     20                 8.0
Multipurpose Blade                                     10                 3.5
Border Disc                                             5                 3.0
Threshers                                              10                13.0
Sprayers (tractor-mounted)                              5                 2.0
Knapsack Sprayers                                      50                 2.0
Workshop Mobile                                         1                14.0
Sprayers and Tools                                     LS                40.3
Subtotal                                                            164.5
Feeder Roads Maintenance
Bulldozer (D4 or equivalent)                            1                22.0
Grader                                                  1                30.0
Tipper Truck                                            1                12.0
Water Tanker                                            1                12.0
Spares and Tools                                       LS               24.0
Subtotal                                                            100.0



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Works - Cost Estimate
IA.  Cost Estimate of a 9 ha - Sample Irrigation Unit
Earth      Masonry         PVC        Gates and                                                           Total        Cost
Work       Concrete       Pipes       Fittings        Miscellaneous       Levelling        Subtotal       (YD)        Per Ha
A.  TRADITIONAL IMPROVED
A.1 - Lined Canal            405         2,790          -            287                                1,000           4,482         4,482         498
A-2 - PVC Pipes              405            30        2,320          988                                1,000          4,743          4,743         527
B.  MODERN NETWORK
B.1 - Lined Canal          2,154         5,793          -            710                   /            1,000           9,657         9,657       1,073
B.2 - PVC Pipes             1,267          138        1,682        2,160              1,126/-            1,000          7,373         7,373         819
SOurce:  SOGREAH R 320 668 - Appendix Al and mission estimate.
1B. Total Cost for the Project
----------- Area (ha) ---------------                     ----------------- Cost (YD'000) -----------------
State                                                     State
Type of Improvement             --Farms    Nugub Plain   Valleys        Total               Farms         Nuqub Plain       Valleys         Total
Al                                             250          150         400                                   111             66           199.2
A2                                -            250         150          400                 -                 118             71           210.8
B1                                75            -           -            75                  80.5              -              -             80.5
B2                                75            -           -            75                  61.4              -              -             61.4
Total                            150           500          300         950                 141.9             229            137           551.9
>D
Li  Light alloy pipes.                                                                                                                                           a x



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Input Distribution, Short-term Procurement Cost and Funding Requirements
Unit      Before       --------      Year With Project --------------                  000
Price     Project        1          2         3          4          5       Total      US$
YD/ton                 ----------------- YD '000 - -----------------
Urea                            150         -         15.0      37.5       60.0       75.0      90.0       90.0
DAP                             155         -          4.0      12.0       23.0       35.0      46.5       46.5
Chemicals                                   -          0.5       1.3        2.5        3.5       4.5        4.5
Wheat seed                      250         -          6.2       6.2       12.5       25.0      25.0       25.0
Seed potatoes                   200         -         30.0      45.0       65.0      95.0      100.0      100.0
Vegetable seed                2,500         -          2.0       3.2        5.0        5.7       6.2        6.2                  1
Seedlings /1                                -          2.0       4.0        7.0       9.0        9.0        9.0
Total requirement (rounded)                           60.0     109.0      175.0     245.0      281.0      281.0
of which cooperatives   24%                        14.0       26.0       42.0      59.0       67.0       67.0
state farms      5%                        3.0        5.0       9.0       12.0       14.0       14.0
indiv. farmers 71%                        43.0       78.0     124.0      174.0      200.0     200.0
Funding requirement, cooperatives   100%             14.0       26.0       42.0      59.0       67.0       67.0
Funding requirement, state farms    100%               3.0       5.0        9.0      12.0       14.0       14.0
Funding requirement, indiv. farmers  50%             22.0       39.0       62.0      87.0      100.0      100.0
Funding requirement, total                           39.0       70.0      113.0     158.0      181.0      181.0
Incremental (short-term credit)                      39.0       31.0      43.0       45.0       23.0      181.0
Physical contingencies                                                                                     18.1
Price contingencies                                                                                        51.6
Total short-term credit                                                                             250.7    725.6 X_x
/1 At Din. 0.5.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Well Deepening, On-farm and Orchard Development,
Medium-term Credit Requirements
------------ Year With Project -------------                      000
1         2          3          4           5      Total       US$
____-------- ----YD '000--------
Funding requirements/-
Well deepening - cooperatives                            -         2.7        2.7        2.7        2.7       10.8
- individual farms                       -         4.3       4.3         4.3        4.3       17.3
Pumping equipment - cooperatives                         -        20.0       20.4         -          -        40.4
- individual farms                    -       32.0       32.7         -          -        64.7
Field levelling and watercourse                                                                                                      C
lining - 50,' of cost on all farms                   15.2       40.0       66.7       77.0       77.0      275.9                   I
Orchard establishment - state farms                     0.6        0.9        1.5        3.1        1.8        7.9
- cooperatives                  1.8        2.7        4.5        8.9        5.2       23.1
- indiv. farms                  5.3        8.0       13.4       26.7       15.5       68.9
Agricultural equipment                                  7.0       84.8       72.7         -          -       164.5
Sub-total                                                                                 673.5
Contingencies (Din. 67.4 Physical, Din. 246.2 Price)                                                         313.6
Total                                                                                     987.1      2,863
/1  Well deepening and pumping equipment         1/3 on cooperatives, requiring 100% financing through credit,
2/3 on individual farns, requiring 80% financing through credit,
20% farmer's contribution
Field levelling and watercourse lining : All farms:  50% through credit, and 50% through Government grant.
Orchard establishment                     : 10, 30 and 89 ha on state farms, cooperatives and private farms,
respectively, average credit provision Din. 775/ha.
Agricultural equipment                    : 100% financed through medium-term credit to MRS.



-52-                             ANNEX 2
Table 8
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                    Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                          At End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
1981/82                                IDA          IFAD
September 30, 1981
December 31, 1981                       -
March 31, 1982                          0.1            -
June 30, 1982                          0.2           0.1
1982/83
September 30, 1982                     0.3           0.2
December 31, 1982                      0.4            0.3
March 31, 1983                         0.8            0.6
June 30, 1983                          1.2           0.9
1983/84
September 30, 1983                     1.7           1.3
December 31, 1983                      2.4           1.8
March 31, 1984                          3.1           2.3
June 30, 1984                          3.8           2.8
1984/85
September 30, 1984                     4.5           3-4
December 31, 1984                      5.3            3-4
March 31, 1985                         5.9           4.4
June 30, 1985                          6.4           4.8
1985/86
September 30, 1985                     6.9           5.2
December 31, 1985                      7.2           5.4
March 31, 1986                          7.4           5.6
June 30, 1986                          7.6           5.7
1986/87
September 30, 1986                     7.8           5.8
December 31, 1986                      7.9            5.9
March 31, 1987                         8.0            6.0
June 30, 1987                          8.0           6.0



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Farms, Farm Families and Wells per Category /I
-------- Wadi Beihan -----------         ---------Wadi Ain---------          Project
State   Coope-    Indiv.                 Coope-      Indiv.                   Area
Farms   ratives   Farms    Total         ratives    Farms       Total         Total
No. of units, pump irrigated           2         3       2,300      -             1       1,040        -              -
No. of workers, cooperative
members and farmers                100       580       2,300    2,980        244 /2    1,040       1,284         4,264
No. of wells and boreholes            20       124         356      500          62          260        322           822
No. of families per well               -        4.7       6.5       -            3.9       4.0          -               5
Average command area
per well (ha)                       7.5       4.4       4.5      4.6          3.7        3.7        3.7            4.25
Average groundwater irrigated
area per family (ha)                1.5       0.9      0.7       0.8          0.9        0.9        0.9            0.8
Total groundwater irrigated
area (ha)                          150       550       1,600    2,300        230           970     1,200          3,500
Annually cropped spate
irrigated land (ha)                n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       600        n.a.        n.a.        400          1,000
Ht~
/1  Based on SOGREAH survey for Wadi Beihan and Appraisal Mission estimates.                                                 m x
/2  Plus 134 members on spate irrigated land.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEI7TAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm and Family Income from Crops.
Present and Future Situation at Full Development
No. of years                      Present Income                                        Future Income                            Increase, %
till full              Per Farm                 Per Family                  Per Farm                  Per Family
Farm Type                                  development      All labor                  All labor                  All labor                  All labor                 Labor at    Family
at YD 3.2    Family       at YD 3.2    Family        at Y   3.2    Family       at YD 3.2    Family        YD 3.2   labor = 0
/man-day    labor = 0    /man-day    labor = 0       /man-day    labor = 0    /man-day    labor = 0
- ----------------------------------- -----   YD/year   --------------------- -- ---------- ----------
Model 1, Wadi Beihan.
5 ha pump-irrigation; on-farm
development, irrigation improve-
ment, orchard development, inputs,
improved mechanization.                              11               934      1,958           156         326          3,287         4,421          548          737          251         126
Model 2, Wadi Beihan.
5 ha pump-irrigation, orchard
development and inputs.                               8               g9o      1,934           152          322         3,136         4,308          523          718          244         123
Model 3, Wadi Beihan.
75 ha state farm, on-farm deve-
lopment, orchard expansion, input
provision.                                           10           18,000         -              _            _         62,320           -             _            _            246
Model 4, Wadi Ain.
3.7 ha pump-irrigation and 1.2 ha
spate irrigation, input sUpply
and extension services.                               5               767      1,438           192         359          1,934         2,666          483          666          152          85
ro u
4~~~~~~~~~ 



People's Dseo.ratin Republic of Yesen
Staff Appraisal Report
Wdadi Bribes Aurlcltoral  laneIupoen Project
Econunic Rete of Retur   (Acounts in TO 0001
il... fits an1ut                                                                 2            3         4        5         6        7           6          9i                      1in1141i                                                             IIn02
lorretl c,Bene_fits
whea                                                          ii          11.6         19.2      60.5   205.0   277 2   277.2           227.2      277.2       277.2      277.2       277.2       277.2      2/7.2       277.2        277.2      277.2      277.2       277.2       277.2
Barley                                                        27          10l.6   - 24.4   -28.7   -30.4   -30.4   -30.4               -30.4       -30.4       -30.4      -30.4       -30.4       -30.4      -30.4       -30.4        -30.4    -30.4        -30.4       -30.4       -30.4
Sorghun 'id nillet (grain)-  8.4   -    0                                              12.8 - 19.6   -19.2   -26.6   -26 6             -26.6       -26.6       -26,6      426.6       -26.6       -26.6      -26.6       -24.6        -26.6    -26.6        -26.6       -26.6       -26.6
S.esnO                                                         2.2         6.9         16.1      39.4      54.9    63        63          63         63          63         63          63          63         63          63           63         63         63          63          63
Onicos                                        ~~~~        ~~~~~       ~~~       ~~~~~~~2.1  00.6  22  42.9    55-7    ii  40. 5  92.3  52        23         93         92.         92.         92._3       92.         92.33   92             9.         92.3        92.3
PuIt.toe                                                      15.6        35.6         63.6    105.6   069.6   230.6   225.0            293.0      293.1       293.0      293.1       293.1       293.0      293.1       293.0        293.1      293.1      293.1       293.1       293.1
Alfe1fa                                                       56         156          304       536       752      076      932         947.2      947.2       947.2      947.2       947.2       947.2       947.2      947.2        947.2      947.2      947.2       947.2       947.2
itrow and stoner                                              2 4     - 60        -   92       -112    -106    -019.4   -124          .124        4124       -124        -124        -124       .124        -124        -124         .124      -124        4124        -124       -124
vegetables                                                     1.6          5.6        10.4      19.2    36         52       63.2        60.8       60.0        68.0        68.8       60.0        90.0        68.0       60.8         60.0       60.0       60.0        60.0        60.8
Citrus                                                        20.6        59.0         93.0    132.6   076.0    234         325         416        504.4       548.0      590.0        590.3    590.3        398.3       390.3        590.3      599.3      590.3       590.3       590.3
Total                                    ~~~         ~~~~        ~~~~      ~~~~~90  225  439  027   1 353   1-679  1.910   2.041  2.151  219 eq        225      2 I 22        925      2  5        2 79%       Z.2.R5     2  3n       2nu99nn                 2  2
0/          0/
Ictreeseecal OtWlaro production costs              ~~~    ~~32  -131 01     40 6    367.9   464.9   515             550      575         595        610         617        617         617         617         617         607        617         617        617         617
T--.oetel Net Bnneft                                                10          361         304        491      iO1114             1,360   1,467        1,536      1,503       0,600      1,600       1,608       1,608       1,600      1,600       1,600       1,600      1,608       1,608
Technicalassistance. anIdttraining                            44         120          119       124        69      -          -         -          -           -          -           -           -          -           ------
offlun anOstaf tra inin                                       25         100          127         -        -       -                    -          -           -----------
Recension teeters, Ott.                       ~~~         ~~     ~     ~~~40  00  02       - -     - 2/    -  2/   -  2/            -          --    2/   -  2/                   -  2/       ---    2/   -  2/                              -    2/ --
Escipoect and eere~~~~~~~~~6a1e  ~53.4                    241         23           1               40.4        246      215         -          -48.4                  266         215         --48.4                             266          21.5       --
EnipseoIt frMSi'                                              7          014.0        702. 7    -         -
Fed-r roads                                                   20          70           00         76       -       -           -        -          -           -----------
Orchard eatabliah-et                                           7 0         11.6        19.4      30.7      22.5 -              -        -          -           -----------
Well depenn   n  POOP  -eP1 e...nret-6/                        -           60.1        69 4        0.1      0.1 -              -        -          -           -----------
Field i_ntniic  ad we, te   ous   iu~tg                       30.5       154          154       154       154      -           -        -          -           -----------
ErosIo  ttrladrnrtaig-36                                                  01           81         01       81      -           -        -          -           -----------
Pe.s, ispnt'                                                   -         1 70         112              -   - 
oydrnntenlogitel  station                                      -           13.4        -          -        -       -3/         -      /-      3    -           --  3/                 -     3/   -      3/   -                            /      -     3/   -    3/     --
C-nignis(hyia)2                                                            68          97 7      369 5    2  2I     7           5.       4.                                 32         53 8        49-4      -                        3           53 0A       54               
Total                                    28~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~5.7    1,410.7 1242 407 308 fO4                398      244         -          -8  4                   390        244         --0                                3110        964 A         
0) 60 f spate  rigto                                          14.9 1       29.7        29.        29.7     29.7   29.7          29,7    29.7        29.7        29.7        29.7       29.7        29.7        29.7        29.7       29.7        29.7        29.7       29.7        29.7
S.,f Ianesrnn              rinru,ad3
input distributi- -nte..sin                                  72.9       11.0         19.3      212.9   107.9   65 1            65 I    65 1        65 1        65 1        65.1       65 1        65 1        65 1       65 5        65 1        65.1       65.1        65 1        65. 1
Other  Perating  -ots   aocseeie
engineer~~~~~~g             eotenein,r~~~~       6          14           45 7      49.7      3 5 .2    94 9       24 Ai   24.8         24.8       24.0        24.0       24.0        24.8       24.0        24.0        24.8        24.0       24.0        24.8        24.8
Roa deiceee                                                    -          -             8         16       16       16          16       16                           16               16                                  16 061   61   81                   61                      6
Coningnis2                                                                4,4           0.2      10.7       01       71          717,7                           7.1         7.1         7.1        7.1         7.1         7.1        7.1        _7.1         7.1         7.1         7.1
Total                                     ~~~~~     ~~~~~~       ~~~~~95.0  175.9  230.9    220  196.9  141.7  142.7   142.7    142.7      142.7       142.7       102.7      142.7       140,7       142.7      142.7       142.7       142.7       142.7      142 3
Turd1 TnrietlPoec-ut                                                8.       ,906        1451         647      565.9  222.10        462.5   407.1        142.7      142.7       2723.5      462.5      407.1       142.7       142.7       223.3      467.5       470         127          42.7
Annual  leleorn Ilocreceerel Oeneftts-fostsl    ~-323.5   -1,234.5   -1,076 7   -217.6   322 2  940.9               097.5 1,959.9    1,399.2    1,449.3    1,586.9   14145.5    0,200.9   1,465.3    1,4,65. 3   1,384.9   1,188.5    1.260,9    t-665.3   1,465.3
1/Asonsed thatt 507  uf anulcntrcinad r-esreto                         ots fur spte irrigation in the pojeutL (se  A-nen   Tble   ) are i utueed ic the 'witho-t  proj~lnc  sit-ti-n
37   ssuedtha  50.  f e.uipeent for adelistratiu- and 1005 of equiponut f-ur 1 etsio     disicihuiun, spate irrigaiu-  and roads Ipurhas..d during firt.  3 years of the prujont
4/Assn..d than after the initial icer--n  to the MRS ...chi-ey pool duriug first 3 years of project, the  -ahi-nay charge  to faner  lu-d in fern production cotc-                                 ciei
-ill Ou-lude full alown e fo  a...tieotin.I
5/  Occludes niitnoeof office and staff honosog
6/Well deep saleg and peep replacenent ins  spentia1 progra   ilthie the proj] ee .ad not replicated after 5.  Water- cost  usd in t he ftor  hudirt analysis (one Annen    Tables1
incorporate   le t  for repla,,e.ert and eacea                 f wells and peeps.
7/  Ass...ed that aed cots i-edre  in ers, 0..    contol   d rne  trinngbyond year S will he ea  t O u   he spate i-rgati-n 0 & iM b,,dgt.L
E- ncldes  the farm inpees Pr-ided hy eredit under the project inyye_r 2 and 3.
9/Assnod tler after yea  5 the   . loa  eaggorerieg and adeiitr-tgie taff will decliee by liT, oud all cots assoc..iated  ith staffing and aperutig input distrhtiuni could he
--nard by the -eles  -agin on inputs.



C. 1
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Governor Shabwa                    Ministry of Agriculture                                                                              National Bank
Sub-Govornor Beihan                   Director of Planning                                                                                  of Yemen
Research and Extensi on
Cooperatives
IState Farmns 
Provincial Director                    Project Manager                              Animal Production
of Agriculture                    Technical Coordinator                            a Pl   eath
Public Corporation of
Fruits and Vegetables    I
Marketing
IManager Machinery
Renting Station
Project Manager      Irrigation Engineer              Hydrogeologist               Extension Expert                  vetericnary                Inputs Procurement                       Manae Beihni
P;     = = =trojectl __ Managd DistributionCeit Ex
Accounts and Administration]          Counterpart                    Counterpart                   Counterpart                       Officer                        Officer                            Cre t
Groundwater                     Extension
_    Administration      _     Procurement                     Monitoring                                          -      adiseaentrol                     Procurement                             Prong
and Control                  Demonstration
Budget and                       Spate                      Surface Water                     Plant                                                                                                Loans
Accounts                      Irrigation                   Measurements                    Protection
Property     l        |       On-farm                     Meteorological                  Pilot Farm                                                      Storage
n   Control  l          {  Development                    Observations                    Operation
|   Monitoring    |   _|   Feeder Roads                        Model                         NurserY                                                     Distribution
|and Evaluation  |                     _        l          l      Studies                       Operations
_l  Buildings 
Construction |
Works and
Equipment
Maintenance
World Bank-22507



C. 2
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IDA FISCAL YEAR                            1983            |           1984                       1985                        1986
CALENDAR YEAR                 1982                       1983                        1984                        1985                       1986
Froielt I\Aanagement, Engineering and Extension Services _,,_                                                       __.__
Office and Staff Housing                                    - _   _
ENtension Centers and Stores                                    _
Nursery and Experimental Farm Works
Equipment Procurement                                       - _     -
Farm Inputs Procurement                                         U _             =_
Spate Irrigation and Erosion Control
Equipment and Materials Procurement
Constructioli                                                                                   _                                                           - _  _.
WVells Irnprovement and On-farm Works
F'eede Roads
Construction-                                                                           ----                                            -
Equipment Procurement                                        -    _  -   _-   __                                       ___
i _  Bids and Contract Award
World Bank-22509



C.3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP CALENDAR, MAIN CROPS
January     February     March                     May          June         July       August     September    October      November    December
Wheat, High Yielding Variety                                                          *._
Wheat, Local                                                                                                                                       VA UWA
Sesame                                              _:_ A_A_
Sorghum (Winter)                                                                                            _n
Sorghum (Summer)                                             -                 -
Onions                                                                                                                                            _
Potatoes                                                                                                   _
Alfalfa----
Citrus                                                                   _    _      .____                                                 _      -
tAI    - Sowing, Planting or Transplanting
Vegetative Grovvth
World Bank-22508



-59-                                  ANNEX 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports.
PDRY. Agricultural Sector Memorandum. Mission Draft. June 20, 1978.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project.
1. PDRY. Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. Wadi Beihan
Project. SOGREAH, Grenoble.
Technical Report No. 1. Soil and Land Calssification, Oct. 1978.
Technical Report No. 2. Irrigation Techniques Survey, Oct. 1978.
Technical Report No. 3. Agronomic and Socio-economics Survey,
October 1978.
Technical Report No. 4, Water Resources Survey. (1) Main Report,
(2) Appendices, Dec. 1978.
2. Wadi Beihan Irrigation Project (PDRY). Alternative 6. Barrage au
Confluent Beihan-Hamad. Rapport de Mission d'Identification.
Aug. 1979. (Identification Mission by Mr. R. Lemoine of SOGREAH
for FAO/CP on possible construction of reservoir)
3. PDRY. Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. Wadi Beihan
Agricultural Development Project. Final Report. (Ch. 1: Nuqub
weir rehabilitation and irrigation scheme. Ch. 2: Improvement
and deepening of existing shallow wells. Ch. 3: Groundwater
irrigation pilot farm. SOGREAH, July 1980.)
4. Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project. Preparation Report.
FAO/'World Bank CooperatIve Programme, Investment Centre.  FAO,
Rome, 26 September 1980. Report No. 46/80 PDY. 13.



-60-
C. Country Background.
1. Structure of Agricultural Production, 1975-80 and Planned 1981-85.
2. Imports and Exports - Selected Agricultural Commodities 1977-79.
3. Value of Agricultural Products by Sub-sector.
4.  Land Use.
5. Public Investment in Agriculture.
6. Fertilizer Use.
D. Working Papers and Tables for Project Implementation.
1. Pro-forma farm models.
(a) Description
(b) Estimated cropped areas
(c-f) Cash flow projections
(g) Labor requirements
(h) Crop production costs (financial)
(i) On-farm family labor income
2. Crop production costs - Economic prices.
3. Tractor availability and requirements.
4. Irrigation water requirements.
5. Fertilizer requirements.
6. Cost tables.
7. Terms of reference, expatriate staff.
8. Project monitoring.



IBRD 15505
~~/46°00'     FEBRUARY 1981
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI BEIHAN A(:;RICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT  7  .  
PROJECT                                              / .
CULTIVATED  IRRIGATED) AREAS
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                                                                                             shhb/
DIRT ROADS, TRACKS
0       TOWNS AND VILLAGES                    7  //
r    c       WADIS                          7        p                             /
0   2   4   6   8  10 Kilometers                                                                                       Al /  k
Bi   / Jooro                              .| a Houoir,h
16°00             j               _                 A                          ayl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~an
Man-.                                  y~
;gOShaqi r           §      M                               Al Hi-
r   r              _ 5f 5==~a Rkbah 45 
Suha,  An                                              ,2/
'   /~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~~~~~Ai Ma,ah//
j  4     |                                     4t t  le~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ih.n al Qasab
<                                        <       F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hadajah
Al Akhf
Th,t -tp has bee prepard by the
,hWorld s-ke otoff eodlo;ely fPt
Lakhf           /Z .the report to which ,t ,s attached
LakImf                             - .                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The d.n.r... hoo  -sd-ad the
Ibondar-es Shown en th,e m-p
/                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Word Bank end, tafhfiate, any
/0Sadi                                                          jdo  -t m/. on the pert ef,thf
Y  E M   E N                                                              sa  tr,toy /  <Bd                                                                 e  ...r.et.It
/        \                           /0                                                                        e  /  \   or aooeptooene f fsoh b-onda-eO
A  R A  B                  /               R    Hish a1 Ghrabah   /              / -                                                          I
, f j 4 oNat j H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~SAUDI ARABIA .
REPUBL IC                   17 i (
t                                                12          !/    =11                            i                                             2           YEMEN                 j/PEOPLE'S
iS-noe            /   DEM REP OF
'     ARAB 'REPJBLI                    YEMEN
I~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pt00 /ref    .0att                                                                cnbrlf
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,N e/-.5J0 O
45°3(t//                                                                                                                     GULFOFAJEN
4503/                                                                _ _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _ _  __\_       _






40',
BAHRI 
TAR     IN
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                                  S  AAI  'K                 -
WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area  of Project Works                                                                                 200
SUDAN f >\              OFYEN
0  1  4                                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RBAN SEA
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o      1      21   3         4       5*  _
Kilometers                                                                                   'jETHIOPIA *
Ar Rukb4h  TimnShStatI
=oo  7                                     *  ***. \  *                                                           Al Sahah
o                    Haquinah                                                                                                                        * < =                            ,/Py
Al Him,
Wjan
MWQlQ  Wdd                                                                            STATE FARMS                                                   Al M.     .C>
Al M-lh                                                         .        WELLS TO BE IMPROVED
Al Ahmar   ~~~~~~~~~ <                                  _~~~~ t  = ~~~ INLETS
B0lhar>;                                                                                                                              C     <        -t--- W EIR
i              'EER R                                                           0_= WADIS
N         STt  i  IRRIGATEDAREAS
G hab   Hadalah                 $                                        °        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOWNS ANtD VI LLAGESWf.db5D Cruv7 S                            n_
,  2  3 7  S  4  E 5                                               ---     TRACK                                               ddn7f /Blp- g Dothepad WELLS T I
S ala h l  -  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES T
Sohao  4/ OaseS  ad'   OO,l,ao   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  WE/hS-1~l.
- ~~~~~~----    WADIS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ C
IRRIGATED AREAS ~ ~ ~        ~
TO,,a,ap0Cs0,00p,oa,aOy  0



