 CCRED'IT NUMBER 1145 YDR
Development Credit Agreement
(Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1145 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  a7 o7       , 1981, between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC PEPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Asscciation to
assist in financing Parts A, B, C, D, F, G and I of the Project
descri,ed in Schedui.e 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter cal.ed the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) .in ran amount equivalent to
four million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
4,900,000) to assist in financingParts A, C, D, E, F, G, H and I
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered
in'to between the Borrower and the Fund; and
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the-As ociation as Cooperat-
ing Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Association
is prepared to accept such appointment;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, 1ith
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this A5reement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the "reamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NBY" means the National Bank of Yemen, established
under the Borrower's Law No. 37 of 1969, as amended to the date of
this Agreement, and any successor thereof;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NBY pursuant
to Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) "BPU" and "Beihan Project Unit" means The Beihan Project
Unit to be established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02
of this Agreement;
(d) "Project Area" means the Wadi Beihan and the Wadi Ain
command areas:
(e) "MRS" means the Machinery Renting Station, an agency of
the Borrower responsible for operating and maintaining agricul-
ural equipment in the Prvject Area;
(f) "MAAR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform of the Borrower, and any successor thereof;
(g) "State Farms" Laeans the State Farms organized under the
Borrower's Law No. 27 of 1970;
(h) "Cooperative- Farms" me.ns      the  Cooperative Farms
organized under the Borrower's Law No. 46 of 1972, as amended
to the date of this Agreement; and
(i) "Fund Loan Account" means the Loan Account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6,600,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may*be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedile
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect .of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be finance-d out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03e The Closing DaL., -shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later.
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March I
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1991, and ending March 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, P-d each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the


﻿4-
Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to *this Agree-
ment, as such allocation may be modified from time t.o time pur-
suant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The B.,rrower shall be entitled to make
.withdrawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund. shall
so agree, to be made) -n respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necess1ry documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as
the Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether
before or after the Association shall have approved any 'withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. When the As-,ociation shall have approved
'n application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
snall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to or
on the order of the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement; and


﻿-5-
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account -in the amounL set forth in such notice, and
that the portion to bb withdrawn from the Fund Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.05. If at any time the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loai shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for from
the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the provi-
sions of this Article III hereof shall continue to apply 1-itatis
mutandis until the full amount credited or to be credited so such
Account shall have been withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.06. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the accoLat of the Fund,
enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of
this Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Association
that any such special commitment shall, once it has been notified
to the Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to
pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of
the Fund 'Joan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goo6i and works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to tais Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01.  The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering, admini-
strative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as


﻿needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purp6se.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of
carrying out the.Project, establish at Deihan, under the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, the Beihan Project Unit (BPU)
with organization and teris of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) BPU shall have overall responsibility for Project
implementation, including responsibility   for: (i) procurement
and construction supervision of all civil works; (ii) imple-
mentation of irrigation improvement, land levelling, nursery
expansion and pilot farm works; (iii) procurement of equipwent,
farm inputs and materials; (iv) assisting NBY in respect of
NBY's disbursements under the Project; (v) compiling hydro-
meteorological and hydrological data and monitoring the aquifer of
Wadi Beihan; and (vi) demonstration of improved agriculturaiL
practices and monitori,.g results of Project implementation.
The Borrower shall make the necessary administrative arrangements
to provide BPU with authority to accomplish these tasks.
(c) The Borrower shall cause BPU to be adequately staffed
at all times and- for this purpose, and unless otherwise agreed
by the Association, the Borrower shall fill, by March 31, 1982,
the post of project manager and, by September 30, 1982, the.posts
of intermediate level tech.-cians of BPU with staff possessing
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) In order to assist BPU in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall cause BPU to employ a technical
coordinator, an irrigation engineer, an extension specialist, a
hydrogeologist and a credit specialist, all with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall also appoint appropriate counterpart
local staff to the personnel mentioned in subsection (a) above.
(c) Unless otherwise agreed with the Association, the Bor-
rower shall ensu-.i that the technical coordinator, the irrigation
engineer, the extension specialist and the hydrogeologist and
their counterpart staff are employed by March 31, 1982.


﻿-7-
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purposes
of Part B of the Project, relend an amount of $1,000,000 equiva-
lent out of the proceeds of the Credit to NBY under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into betw1een the Borrower and NBY
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, including the priucipal terms set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of -he Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision fe- the ins.urance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the .roceeds of the Credit against hazarcs
incident to the acquisition, -ransportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or insLallation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or rerair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods. and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be us !d exclusively for the Project.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail, as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost -nd the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and servLces financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and #o
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the


﻿-8-
Association shall reaso-ably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of suc.. proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the BorT-wer of any contract for.
goods or services to be financed o-,t of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operatimn of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Associativ.x or their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accoriplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and' rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evideice satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purprses related to the Project.
Section 4.08. The Borrower sh-ll, for the puirpose of Part A
(i) of the Project, cause BPU: (i) to prepare, b June 30, 1983, a
detailed training program satisfactory to :h" Association; and
(ii) thereafter, to carry out the .aid progra,.-
Section 4.09. The Borrower, for the picpose of controlling
groundwater abstraction in the Project Area, shall cause:
(a) each proposal to construct a new irrigation well
in the Project Area to be examined by the BPU hyerogeologist who
will report to MAAR on its likely effects on thf., _qi2er; and


﻿--9  -
(b) the said BPU hydrogeo'.ogist's report 6n the proposed
construction of each new irrigation well to be furnished to the     .
Association for review and comments.
Section 4.10. The Jorrower shall: (1) réview with the Asso-
ciation the study carried out under Part G et Schedule 2 of
the Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 768 YDR) -(Wadi
Tuban Project) dated March 22, 1978, between the Borrower and the
Association, within six months of the completion of the said
study;. and (ii) within'one year vf the completion of the review of
the said study, commence the implementation of such recommenda-
tions of the said study ås may be agreed between the Borrower and
the As :ciation.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
ä
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of BPU and NBY, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate accounts by BPU reflecting all expendi-
tures described in Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of 'which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures.
(b) 'ie Borrower shall cause BPU to retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requc.ted from the Credit Account
or the Fund Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures, and shall enable the Associati-n's accredi -d representa-
tives to examine such records.
Sectien 5.02. The dorrower shall cause BPU and NBY to: (a)
have their respective separate accounts referred to in Section
5.01 (a) of this Agreement for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association at; soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such 3dar,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
-i-t z


﻿-10-
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 5.01 (a) *of this
Agreement as -o whether the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund
Loan withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account ou
the basis of certificates of expenditures have been use%- for the
purpose for which .they were provided; and (c) furnish to the
As-;ociation such other information concerning said separate
accountr, reco:ds and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasCnably request.
Section 5.03. The. Borrower shall, after the completion of the
Project, take such steps as shall be necessary to ensure that the
annual procurement and distribution of fertilizers and plaAt
- protection chemicals shall be at levels not less than the levels
reached during the last twelve months prior to the completion of
the Project.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall maintain or cause -o be
maintained, the spate irrigation works and roads provided under
the Project in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural policies and practices, and shall
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed sufficient
funds, services and other resources for such purpose. For the'se
purposes, equipment for spate irrigation works shall be replaced
after every six years of use.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
and the Fund annually such information as the Association shall
rea.onably request concerning the impact of the Project, for a
period of five years after the completion of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph    h) thereof, namely, that subject to
paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Fund Loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms ci the Fund Loan Agreement;
or


﻿.. - 11 -
(ii) the Fund Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section.shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, term!nation or prematuring is not
caured by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the Fund.Loan Agreeaient; and (ii) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower -.der this Agreement..
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness. -of the Development
Credit Agreement *within the meaning. of Section 12.0". (b) of the
Gereral Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has established BPU in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.02 (a) and (b) of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
mnt with NBY in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.04
(a) of this Agreement; and
(c) the txecution on behalf of the Borrower of the Fund Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action and all other conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Fund Loan Agreement (save for the effec-
tiveness of this Agreement) have been duly fulfilled; and the Fund
has appointed the Association, with the concurrence of the Bor-
rower, as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Section 7.02. The date h,oUD_uVA     .27 /99/     is hereby
specifie,' for the purposeu of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 12.-
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower -under Sections
5.03, 5.04 and 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
,ome into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement
shall have friled to come into force and effect by the date
specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date
establ shed by the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which
shall have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the
Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding
the provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions, the Development Credit Agreemenz shall be deemed to be, or
to remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing t!he Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties there-
under, subject to such modifications of the Development Credit
Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower,.the Association
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate; provided, however, that in the case described
in the foregoing clause (ii) such termination shall apply only to
the responsibilities of the Association as such Cooperating
Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-13 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                      Telex:
TAKHTEET                           289 AD
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement t - be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United Sttes of America, as of the- day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            a
By  .Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan
1.    The, table below sets iorth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and. the Fund Loan, the
allocation of tIe amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loar to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to se
financed in each Category:
. Amount of the  % of Expen-   % of Expen-
Amount of the-     Fund Loan     ditures to    ditures to
Credit Allocated    Allocated     be Financed   be Financed
(Expressed in    (Expressed in    under the     under the
Category         SDR Equivalnt) SDR Equivalent)    Credit       Fund Lcan
(1) Civil works:
(a) for Parts A        940,000        660,000          45%           30%
(i), A(ii)
and F(i) of
the Project
(b) for Parts C        810.000      1,230,000          35%          65%
an D of the
Project
(2) Equipment and         1,750,000        490,000      80% of for-    20% of for-
materials             -                            eign expen-    eig.: expen-
ditures, 80%    1tu.res, 20%
of local ex-   of local ex-
penditures     peneitures
(ex-factory)   (ex-factory)
and 45% of     and 40% of
other local    other local
expenditures   expenditures
for items      for items
Pricured       procured
O' .11y        locally
(off-the-      (of'-the-
shelf)         shelf)


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the % of Expen-    % of Expen-
Amount of the      Fund Loan     ditures to   ditures to
Credit Allocated    Allocated     be Financed  be Financed
(Expressed in    (Expressed in   under the     under the
Category         SDR Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)   Credit       Fund Loan
(3) Farm Inputs            810,000          -          100% of for-      -
(aggregate                                        eign expen-
amounts expen-                                    ditures
ded during the
first year and
the incremental
amounts expen-
ded in subse-
quent years)
(4) Technical            1,630,000          -          100% of for-      -
assistance,                                       eign expen-
consultants'                                      ditures
services
and training
(5) Agricultural            -           570,000            -          80% c local
extension and                                                    expenditures
pilot farm
staff
(6) Medium-term            -          1,550,000            -          100%
credit for wells
improvement, on-
farm works and
orchard estab-
lishment
(7) Unallocated            660,000      400,000
TOTAL     6,600,000     4,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower;


﻿-16-
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "first year" means the period of twelve months
commencing on the Effective Date;
(d) the term "subsequent years" means each consecutive
period of twelve months following the first year; and
(e) the term "incrementfAl amounts" means the amounts by
which the aggregate amount of expenditures for any year exceeds
tne aggregate amount of expenditures of the preceding years,
commencing with the first year.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or-services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or, decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(i) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
(ii) no withdrawals shall be made for a subsequent
year under Category (3) of paragraph 1 above,
unless the aggregate amount of expenditures of the
said subsequent year shall also exceed the aggre-
gate amount of expenditures of the first year.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above,- if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan then


﻿allocated to any Category.will be i-sufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to -such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any -Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in chis Agreement, -no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement
or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund
Loan as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which. would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out. of the proceeds of the Credit and/or
the Fund Loan.
In~~.


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 2                                          4
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   (i) The establishment f BPU's management, engineering
and agricultural extension services through the
provision of appropriate technical assistance,
including staff training, and local staff;
(ii) construction of prefabricated office buildings
and staff houses for BPU at Wadi Beihan;
(iii) construction of extension centers and stores,
establishment of a nursery and a pilot farm for BPU
in the Project Area; and
(iv) provision of office and extension equipment and
materials for BPU.
Part B:   Provision of farm inputs to increase agricultural pro-
ductivity in the Project Area.
Part C:   Rehabilitation of spate irrigation networks in the Wadi
Beihan command area.
Part D:   Control of bank erosion of Wadi Beihan.
Part E:   Improvement of wells and on-farm works in the Wadi
Beihan command area.
Part F:   (i) Construction of feeder roads and (ii) provision of
road maintenance equipment in the Wadi Beihan command
area.
Part G:   Provision of agricultural equipment and a mobile work-
shop for MRS for the Project Area.
Part H:   Establishment of orchards for cultivation of fruits in
the Project Area.
Part I:   Establishment of a program of hydrogeological and
meteorological studies to assess the surface and ground-
water potential of the Wadi Beihan command area.
The Project is expected to be c(,mpleted by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3-
Procurement
A.   Procurement Procedures
1.   Prefabricated office buildings and staff houses under Part A
(ii), equipment under Parts A (iv), C, F (ii), G and I, and farm
inputs under Part B of the Project shall be procured through
in%:rnational shopping on the basis of comparison of not less
than three price quotations in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Minor items of equipment and farm inputs costing less than
$20,000 equivalent per item may be procured on the basis of
local competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's
procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided all such
procurement shall not in the aggregate exceed $200,000 equiva-
lent.
3.   Extension centers, stores and feeder riads shall be con-
structed and nursery and pilot farm works shall be carried out on
the basis of negotiated contracts entered into in accordance with
procedures satib..-tot to the Association.
4.   Spate irrigation and bank ercsion control works shall be
carried out by the Borrower on the basis of force account.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other biddiing documents, together
with a description of the advertiing procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿-- 20K
the Association of the name *of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,       . 1  .
sufficient time for its review, a detail(-d report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other. .
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelin-s or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the -easons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from-the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together' with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
.inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing _a any material modification or waiver -of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting en extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms of the
Subsididary Loan Agreement
A.   Lending Tetms - Borrower to NBY
Repayment period of 12 years, including two years of grace;
not less than 3% per annum rate of interest. Toreign exchange risk
to be borne by the Borrower.
B.   Lending Terms - NBY to Beneficiaries:
1.   To all Beneficiaries (Machinery *Lental Station, Cooperative
Farms, State Farms and all individual farmers): subject to parag-
raphs (2), (3), (4) and (5) below, interest rates shall be the
prevailing market rates charged by NBY for the agricultural
sector.
2.   To Cooperative Farms and State, Farms for purchase of ferti-
lizer, chemicals and other farm inputs provided under Part B of
the Project: maximum repayment period of 1 year; not less than 6%
per annum rate of inter-st.
3.   To MRS for purchase of equipment under Part G of the Project,
and to Cooeprative Farms and State Farms for .'mprovement of wells,
on-farm works and orchard establishment under 1'-rts E and R of the
Project: maximum repayment period of 7 years; not less than 5.5%
per annum rate of interest.
4.   To individual farmers for purchase of fertilizer, chemicals
and other farm inputs provided under Part B of the Project:
maximum repayment period of 1 year; rate of interest not exceeding
2% above that charged under paragraph B (2) above.
5.   To individual farmers for improvement of wells, on-farm works
ant: orchard establishment under Parts E and H of the Project:
maximum repayment period of 7 years; rate of interest not exceed-
ing 2% above that charged under paragraph B (3) above.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certill that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the             ay of         ,
198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


