                                                                                               OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                                                                    R2007-0049
                                                                                                           IDA/R2007-0044

                                                                                                                 March 7,2007



                                                                             Closing Date: Friday, March 16,2007



FROM: The Acting Corporate Secretary


       ProposedTrust Fundfor the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility


1.       Attached is aMemorandumfrom the President entitled "Proposed Trust Fundfor the
Caribbean Catastrophe RiskInsurance Facility".

2.       Inthe absenceofobjection(to becommunicated to the Vice President andCorporate
Secretaryby close o fbusiness on Friday, March 16,2007), the recommendations contained in
paragraph 10o fthe Memorandum, will be deemed approved andbe so recorded inthe minutes o f
a subsequentmeetingo fthe Executive Directors.

3.       Questions onthis document may be referredto Mr.Ghesquiere (ext. 81964).




Distribution:

  ExecutiveDirectors andAlternates
  President
  Bank Group Senior Management
  Vice Presidents,Bank, IFC andMIGA
  Directors andDepartment Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its content:

me\,nn+n+hnnsriea hn rlierlnearl uri+hnis+ \A/nrlrl R-nb f2vnnsm-In+hnrke+inn


                                                                                                 38927


                                          THE WORLD BANK
                                          Washington, D C 20433
                                                   U.S.A.

Office o f the President
                                                                                         March6,2007


                     MEMORANDUMTO THEEXECUTIVEDIRECTORS

         ProposedTrust Fundfor the CaribbeanCatastropheRiskInsuranceFacility


1.       The purpose o f this memorandum i s to propose the establishment o f a multi-donor trust
fund (the CaribbeanCatastrophe RiskInsurance FacilityTrust Fundor the CCRIF Trust Fund)to
channel financial support to the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF), which
aims to provide Caribbean Community (CARICOM) member or associate member countries'
with a better mechanism for dealingwithearthquake andhurricane risks. The Memorandum to the
Executive Directors dated February 14, 2007 has been submitted for discussion at the Board on
March 8, 2007, requesting the Executive Directors' approval o f the draft report recommending
that the Board o f Governors authorize a transfer o f US$lO.O million to the CCRIF Trust Fund,
with the transfer beingcontingent on the Executive Directors' approval of the resolution for the
establishment o f the CCRIF Trust Fund        '.Ifauthorized bythe Boardof Governors, this transfer
o f lBRD surplus would be made to the proposedC C R F Trust Fund.

2.       Natural disaster risk i s increasingly o f global concern, and there i s a growing
acknowledgement for the needto promote the development o f financial risk-sharing mechanisms,
particularly insurance and reinsurance against disasters, to reduce vulnerabilities o f the poor and
help the sustainability of development. The issue i s particularly relevant to the Caribbean region
because o f the frequency of occurrence o f major natural disasters and the smaller size o f states in
the region.

3.       Following the devastation caused by natural disasters in the Caribbean in 2004, the
CARICOM Heads o f Government asked the World Bank for assistance to gain access to
affordable and effective disaster risk financing. In response, the IBRD and IDA have been
assisting CARICOM countries with the development o f the CCRIF. The CCRIF i s a pooled
facility that would allow Caribbean countries to purchase insurance coverage for natural disaster
risks at a significantly reduced cost. It i s designed to help participating countries affected by
major natural disasters to quickly jumpstart their recovery efforts by providing immediate
financial liquidity, giving the affected countries time to mobilize additional resources for longer-
term reconstruction activities.       By acting as a financial intermediary between participating

'The  Caribbean Community and Common Market or CARICOM was establishedby the Treaty o f
Chaguaramas which came into effect on August 1, 1973. Members to CARICOM include Antigua and
Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat (UK),
Saint Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname (NL),Trinidad and Tobago.
Associate Members include Anguilla, Bermuda, BritishVirgin Islands (UK),Cayman Islands (UK),Turks
and Caicos Islands.
 Proposed Transfer of IBRD Surplus to Support a Caribbean CatastropheRisk Insurance Facili@,
(R2007-0024), February 14,2007.

                                                 - 2 -


countries and the international financial markets, the CCRIF will pool natural disaster risks,
reduce the cost o f insurance and ensure swift payment using a parametic system o f claims
determination. The CCRIF i s beingestablished as an independent legal entity under the Cayman
Islands laws to provide insurance coverage intime for the upcoming hurricane season starting in
June 2007. Further details o f the structure o f the CCRIF are described in the above mentioned
Memorandumto the Executive Directors for IBRD surplus transfer.

The IDA Supportto the CCRIF

4.      T h e Association has been playing a key role in assisting the Caribbean countries in the
development o f the CCRIF. The CCRIF was designed with financial assistance from the
Government o f Japan which contributed US$1.8 million under the Japan Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) Fund. Inaddition, two IDA operations, the OECS Catastrophe
RiskInsurance Project3andthe HaitiRisk InsuranceProject4were submitted for discussionat the
Board on March 8, 2007. These operations, for a total o f US$23.2 million equivalent, will
support the participation o f Haiti, Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the
Grenadines inthe CCRIF.

5.      The Association is also well positioned to use its convening power to leverage donor
resources to support the CCRIF. To this end, it i s proposing to establish the CCRIF CCRIF Trust
Fund supported by a suggested transfer o f US$lO.O million from IBRD surplus. Furthermore
IDA, in collaboration with CARICOM, organized a pledging conference inWashington, D C on
February 26, 2007, seelung donor contribution to fund the establishment and first few years o f
operation o f the CCRIF. At the conference, donors made pledges totaling approximately US$37
million' which would complement the proposedtransfer ofUS$lO.O million from IBRDsurplus.

The ProposedTrustFund

6.      To facilitate the channeling o f funds from donors to the CCRIF, it i s proposed that IDA
establish the CCRIF Trust Fund. The proposed CCRIF Trust Fund will provide financing to
cover establishment costs and operating expenses, including insurance payouts o f the CCRIF.
Such financing will provide an injection of funds duringthe initial period o f the CCRIF, and help
ensure its financial viability and long-term sustainability. The CCRIF i s expectedto become self-
sustainable within five years, by which time funding support from the CCRIF Trust Fund is
expected to cease.

7.      While the Association will not sit on the Boardo f the CCRIF, it will retain certain control
over operations o f the CCRIF through grant agreement(s) to be entered between the CCRF and
IDA as administrator o f the CCRIF Trust Fund. The grant agreements would set out the terms
and conditions for disbursement o f grant funds to the CCRIF for establishment costs and
operating expenses. Financing will be contingent upon satisfactory review by IDA of a corporate
structure and an operational manual o f the CCRF. The CCRIF will be requiredto provide IDA
with periodical financial and operational reports, including annual audited financial statements.
All disbursements will be on a grant basis.




 Report No: 38539-LAC
 Report No: 38540-HT
5Detailed pledgeswere as follows, France (Euro 5.0 million), Canada (CS$20.0 million), Bermuda
(US$0.5 million), United Kingdom (US$7.5 million), the CaribbeanDevelopment Bank (US$5 million).

                                                 - 3 -


8.       This trust fund proposal has substantial risk. The CCRIF i s a limited liability company
and in case o f dissolution, any residual financial risk would be limitedto the amount o f its paid-
in-capital. Nevertheless, the risk o f default ininsurance coverage poses a highreputational risk to
the Association.     This risk i s mitigated by the design o f the CCRIF, which is based on
international best practice, with an annual probability of default below 0.05%; i.e., the CCRIF
could sustain a 1-in-200-year event. Should the CCRIF's claims-paying capacity be insufficient
to pay all insured losses, claims will be pro-rated based on the remaining available funds in the
CCRIF. Further, a reinstatement clause inthe reinsurance contract, allowingthe CCRIF to access
more reinsurance capacity if the initial reinsurance capacity is exhausted, would be explored for
the first years o f implementation.       Reputational risk could also arise from the different
stakeholders' understanding o f the risks that the CCRIF will cover and how it will pay claims
(since the payout does not match the actual loss). To mitigate this, the limitations o fthe coverage
provided have been continuously underscored to participating countries and donors, and will
continue to be highlightedwhen discussing individual policies with client countries. Reputational
risk by association related to the CCRIF governance structure could also arise, even though the
Association will not participate in the CCRIF's Board. However, the Association will mitigate
such risks by retaining partial control in the initial phase o f the CCRIF's operations through the
grant agreement as discussed above.

9.       As discussed inthe Memorandum to the Executive Directors for IBRD surplus transfer,
the Executive Directors' approval o f the establishment o f the CCRIF Trust Fundis being sought
on the basis that the membership o f the CCRIF may be expanded in future to other countries,
including non-Association members, and thus funding to the CCRIF may indirectly support
activities in non-Association member countries. Although the CCRIF is being developed as an
instrument for CARICOM members and associate members, this pilot program i s expected to
benefit other countries, such as Pacific and Indian Ocean countries, by way o f expansion. An
expansion of the CCRIF membership, including to non-Association member countries, would
also allow for further diversification o f its risk portfolio resulting in lower premium costs for
participating countries. Therefore, in Management's view, development o f the CCRIF through
expansion o f its membership, both to Association member and non-Association member
countries, will have clear benefits for the members o f the Association. This i s consistent with the
mechanisms developed in the past to allow the Association, in exceptional cases, to provide
assistance to non-Association members while at the same time acting within the Articles'
mandate.6




6See the various legalanalysespresentedinthe legalmemorandumby the Acting Vice Presidentand
GeneralCounsel, entitled"World Bank Assistanceto EastTimer," datedSeptember30, 1999(SecM99-
666).

                                            - 4 -


Recommendation

10.    IrecommendthattheExecutiveDirectorsapprovetheestablishmentoftheproposed
Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility Trust Fund and for IDA to be the Trustee of the
proposed Trust Fundby adopting the attached resolution.




                                                                  Paul Wolfowitz
                                                                  President



                                                               u
                                                                  ByGraeme Wheeler
                                                                  Managing Director

                                                 - 5 -


                                                                   Attachment
                                                      Draft Resolutionofthe Executive Directors


                    INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTION
                                     AND DEVELOPMENT

                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                  RESOLUTION NO.

                               RESOLUTIONNO. IDA

             THE CARIBBEANCATASTROPHERISKINSURANCEFACILITY
                                           TRUST FUND


WHEREAS:

(A)      It is desirable to promote the purpose of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) and the International Development Association (the Association) by
establishing a multi-donor trust fund for the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility, the
Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility Trust Fund (the Trust Fund), in order to support
establishment and operations o f the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (the Program),
which aims to provide a better mechanism for dealing with catastrophc risks in the Caribbean
region;

(B)      The Executive Directors of the Association have proposed to the Board o f Governors of
the Association to adopt a resolution authorizing the transfer from surplus o f US$10million to the
Trust Fundbyway ofa grant;

(C)      Other donors have also expressed their interest in contributing to the financing of the
Programand to this effect to provide funds to the Trust Fundinsupport o f the Program;

(D)      The Association i s prepared to establish the Trust Fund, to be trustee thereof and
administer it on the terms and conditions set forth inthis Resolution;

NOW THEREFORE it is herebyresolvedthat:

A. Establishmentof the Trust Fund

1.       The Trust Fundis hereby established as a trust fund ofthe Association, constituted ofthe
funds whch shall from time to time be contributed in accordance with the provisions of this
Resolution, and any other assets andreceipts o f the Trust Fund.

2.       The Association shall hold and administer such funds, assets and receipts intrust'(in such
capacity, the Trustee), and the Trustee shall manage and use such funds, assets and receipts only
for the purpose of, and inaccordance with, the applicable provisions o f the Articles o f Agreement
o f the Association and the provisions o f this Resolution, keeping them separate and apart from the
assets o f the Bank and the Association, but may commingle them with other trust fund assets
maintainedby the Bank or the Association.

                                                - 6 -



3.       The Trustee is authorized to accept contributions to the Trust Fundfrom the Association
and other donors (collectively, the Contributors).      The Trustee shall enter into a trust fund
administration agreement (the Trust Fund Administration Agreement) with each such other
Contributor, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, whereby each such other
Contributor shall agree to provide grant(s) to the Trust Fundin accordance with the terms o f this
Resolution.

4.       All contributions to the Trust Fund(collectively, Contribution Funds) will be accounted
for as a single trust fund.

5.       The Trustee shallberesponsible only for performingthose functions specifically set forth
inthis Resolution andthe relevantTrustFundAdministration Agreement, and shall notbesubject
to any other duties or responsibilities to the Contributors, including, without limitation, any duties
or obligations that might otherwise apply to a fiduciary or trustee under general principles o f trust
or fiduciary law. The privileges and immunities accorded to the Association shall apply to the
property, assets, archives, operations and transactions o f the Trust Fund.

B. Payment of Contributionsto the Trust Fund

6.       Contributions to the Trust Fund shall be denominated in United States dollars or other
currencies acceptable to the Trustee; provided, however, that the Trustee shall, upon receipt,
convert contributions made in currencies other than in United States dollars into United States
dollars for the purpose o f the Trust Fund.

7.       Payment o f each contribution to the Trust Fundshall be made as follows:

             (a) Payment shall be made inthe form o f cash to the Association, as Trustee o f the
                  TrustFund.

             (b) Payment of each contribution shall be made at such time and in such manner as
                  shall be agreed by the Trustee.

C. Administrationof the TrustFund

8.       The Trustee may investthe Contribution Funds pending their disbursement inaccordance
with the Association's policies and procedures for the investment of trust funds administered by
the Association. The Trustee shall credit all income from such investment to the Trust Fundto be
usedfor the samepurposes as the Contribution Funds.

9.       The Contribution Funds may be freely exchanged by the Trustee into other currencies as
may facilitate their administration and disbursement.

10.      Inorder to assist in the defrayment of costs and expenses of administering the Trust
Fund, the Trustee may recover its costs from Contributors other than the Association, and
following deposit o f contribution by each such other Contributor, deduct from such funds and
retain for the Trustee's own account an amount equal to two percent (2%) o f the contribution.

11.      The Trustee shall establish and maintain appropriate records and accounts to identify the
resources o f the Trust Fund, the commitments to be financed out o f the Trust Fund, and the
receipts and disbursements o f funds inthe Trust Fund.

                                                 - 7 -



12.      Withinninety(90) days of each March 31, June 30, September 30 andDecember 31,the
Trustee shall furnish to each of the Contributors an unaudited cash-based statement of receipts,
disbursements and fund balance in United States dollars with respect to the Contributions.
Within six (6) months ofthe final disbursement date specified inparagraph 17 of this Resolution,
the Trustee shall furnish to the Contributors a final unaudited cash-based statement of receipts,
disbursements and fund balance in the United States dollars with respect to the Contribution
Funds.

13.      Inaddition to reporting obligations provided inparagraph 12above, the Trustee shall, as
soon as practical after the end of each fiscal year o f the Trustee, furnish to each o f the
Contributors: (i) a report on the activities financed from the Trust Fund; and (ii) management
                                                                                        a
assertion together with an attestation from the Association's external auditors concerning the
adequacy o f internal control over cash-based financial reporting for trust funds administered by
the Association as a whole. The costs of such attestation shall beborne by the Trustee.

14.      Ifa Contributor wishes torequest, onanexceptional basis, a financial statement auditby
the Trustee's external auditors o f the Trust Fund, the Contributor and the Trustee shall first
consult as to whether such an external audit i s necessary. The Trustee and the Contributor shall
agree on the most appropriate scope and terms o f reference o f such audit. Following agreement
on the scope and terms o f reference, the Association shall arrange for such external audit. The
costs o f any such audit, including the internal costs o f the Trustee with respect to such audit, shall
be paidbythe Contributor.

D. Operationsofthe TrustFund

15.      Except as otherwise provided in this Resolution, all amounts credited to the Trust Fund
shall be used by the Trustee exclusively for the purpose o f malung grants out o f the resources o f
the Trust Fundto recipients for activities approved by the Trustee in support o f an establishment
and operations o f the Program, including, but not limited to:

         (a)   establishment costs o f the Facility, including professional service fees,
               administrative fees, bankinginitiation fees andregistration fees;
         (b) operating expenses of the Facility, includingadministrative fees, professional fees,
               audits costs, exchange rate costs, banking fees, reinsurance premia, and
               remuneration and travel expenses o fboardmembers o f the Facility; and
         (c)   insurance payouts o f the Facility.

16.      Grants shall be subject to the following:

         (a)   each grant shall be administered in accordance with the applicable procedures o f
               the Association and subject to the Regional Vice President's approval;

         (b)   each grant shall be evidenced by a separate agreement between the recipient and
               the Association (the Grant Agreement), setting forth the terms and conditions on
               which such grant shall be provided and indicating in particular that the resources
               have beenprovided fi-om the Trust Fund;

         (c)   the Grant Agreements shall provide that the Contributions shall be used by the
               recipient to finance expenditures for goods and services, as the case may be, in
               accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines on "Procurement under IBRDLoans

                                                  - 8 -


                 and IDA Credits" and, as the case may be, the World Bank's Guidelines on the
                 "Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," as in
                 effect onthe date o f the Grant Agreements;

         (d)     The Trustee shall be solely responsible for the supervision o f project activities
                 under the Grant Agreements; and

         (e)     grants shall be denominated inUnited States dollars.

E. DisbursementDeadlineand Cancellation of Contributionsunder the Trust Fund

17.      I t i s expected that the Contribution Funds will be fully disbursed by the Trustee in
accordance with the provision o f this Resolution by May 15, 2012. After such date, the Trustee
shall only disburse Contribution Funds for the purpose o f this Resolution with the written
approval o f all Contributors.

18.      Any Contributor or the Trustee may, upon three (3) months' prior written notice, cancel
all or part o f the Contributor's pro rata share of any remaining balance ofthe Contribution Funds
that i s not committed pursuant to any agreements entered into between the Trustee and any
consultants and/or other third parties for the purposes of this Agreement prior to the receipt o f
such notice, includingthe Grant Agreements. In such event o f the cancellation, the Trustee shall
return such cancelledbalanceto the Contributor

19.      Upon the final disbursement date specified in paragraph 17 above, except as each
Contributor and the Trustee may otherwise agree, the Trustee shall promptly return to each other
Contributor and, in the case o f contributions from the Bank, the Association, any remaining
balance of Contribution Funds on a pro rate basis.

20.      The Trustee shall, within six (6) months o f the final disbursement date specified in
paragraph 17, furnish to the Executive Directors o f the Bank and the Association and all other
Contributors a final report on the operations financed fromthe TrustFund.

F. EffectiveDate

21.      This Resolution will enter into effect on the date o f its adoption by the Executive
Directors of the Association and the Bank.

