Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4272-SV 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(OECS Catastrophe Insurance Project) 
 
between 
 
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 8, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4272-SV 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated March 8, 2007, entered into between ST. VINCENT AND 
THE GRENADINES (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to four 
hundred sixty-six thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 466,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1
to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Participation Agreement is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Association, the ability of the Recipient to benefit fully from the 
operation of the CCRIF. 
(b) 
The Insurance Agreement is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Association, the ability of the Recipient to benefit fully from the 
operation of the CCRIF. 
(c) 
The legal instruments establishing, and/or the regulatory license issued 
to, the CCRIF have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Association, the ability of the Recipient to benefit fully from the 
operation of the CCRIF. 
(d) 
The CCRIF corporate structure and/or operational policies have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of 
the Recipient to benefit fully from the operation of the CCRIF. 
Page  4
-3-
(e) 
The financial condition of, and/or management of, and/or membership in, 
the CCRIF has become of a nature such as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of the Recipient 
to benefit fully from the operation of the CCRIF. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the occurrence of any event 
specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the establishment of the 
CCRIF, as evidenced by: 
(a) 
formal registration of the CCRIF as a limited liability company under the 
laws of the Cayman Islands, owned by a commercial trust also 
established under said laws; 
(b) 
the commitment of at least four members and/or associate members of 
CARICOM (other than the Recipient, and the Commonwealth of 
Dominica, Grenada, and St. Lucia) to participate in the CCRIF, as 
evidenced by: (i) execution of participation agreements, satisfactory to 
the Association, between each of said members and the CCRIF; and (ii) 
payment by said members in full, into an escrow account satisfactory to 
the Association, of their entrance fees to join CCRIF; 
(c) 
the commitment of an additional four members and/or associate 
members of CARICOM to participate in CCRIF, as evidenced by 
execution of participation agreements, satisfactory to the Association, 
between the CCRIF and said additional members (this condition (c) must 
be satisfied by the Recipient, and may be satisfied additionally by, 
inter 
alia
,
the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, and St. Lucia); and 
(d) 
the opening of a commercial bank account by the CCRIF in an 
institution, and on terms and conditions, acceptable to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that, as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 8.02 of the General Conditions, the 
Recipient shall cause CCRIF to furnish to the Association a legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Association showing that CCRIF has been properly registered 
and is established as a limited liability company in full compliance with the laws 
of the Cayman Islands. 
Page  5
-4-
5.03.  
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Credit 
which expire on September 8, 2008. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance 
and Economic Planning. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Office of the Prime Minister 
Administrative Centre 
Kingstown 
St. Vincent and the Grenadines 
 
Facsimile: 
 
784-457-2152 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  6
-5-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 
 
By /s/ Ellsworth John 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-6-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in participating in the 
CCRIF for the purpose of
 reducing the Recipient’s financial vulnerability to catastrophic 
events resulting from hurricanes and earthquakes. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
A. 
provision of financing for the payment of the Recipient’s entrance fee to 
participate in the CCRIF; and 
B. 
provision of financing for the payment of 100 percent of the Recipient’s 
annual catastrophe risk insurance premiums for the first two years of its participation in 
the CCRIF, and 50 percent of the Recipient’s said premium for the third year of its 
participation in the CCRIF.  
Page  8
-7-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
Payment of the CCRIF Entrance Fee and Annual Premiums
.
The Recipient shall 
instruct the Association (by furnishing to the Association in a timely manner 
applications for withdrawal
 from the Recipient’s Credit Account) to make direct 
payments, on behalf of the Recipient, to the CCRIF for amounts due as set forth 
in the table in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule.  The Recipient shall furnish the 
applications for withdrawal in adequate time for the Association to make the 
payments to the CCRIF by their scheduled due dates. 
2. 
Counterpart Financing
.
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the 
Recipient shall contribute 50 percent of its third annual catastrophe insurance 
premium to the CCRIF.   
B. Participation 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to the CCRIF for the purposes set forth in Part A of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, pursuant to a participation agreement executed by 
the Recipient and the CCRIF, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association (“Participation Agreement”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Participation Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Participation Agreement or any of its provisions. 
C. Insurance 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to the CCRIF for the purposes set forth in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, pursuant to an insurance agreement executed by 
the Recipient and the CCRIF, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association (“Insurance Agreement”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Insurance Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
Page  9
-8-
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Insurance Agreement or any of its provisions. 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of two calendar semesters (May 1 through April 30), and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
The CCRIF insurance coverage to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing shall be procured, as if it were a type of good, in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
The goods for this Project shall be procured under a contract awarded on the 
basis of Direct Contracting. 
C. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.  
 
Page  10
-9-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Recipient’s entrance 
fee as described in Part A 
of
the Project. 
133,000 100% 
(2)  Recipient’s first and 
second annual insurance 
premiums as described in 
Part B of the Project. 
266,000 100% 
(3)  Recipient’s third 
annual insurance 
premium as described in 
Part B of the Project. 
67,000 50% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
466,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
Page  11
-10-
(b) 
under Categories (2) and (3) unless:  (i) CCRIF has received a regulatory 
license from the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority to issue insurance 
policies; (ii) CCRIF has adopted operational policies satisfactory to the 
Association; and (iii) the Recipient has entered into the Insurance 
Agreement with CCRIF. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
Without limitation to the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, the 
Recipient shall ensure that the Association is promptly informed of any developments in 
the Recipi
ent’s legislation, regulations and operations, including its operational policies 
and procedures, that may affect the performance of the Project. 
Page  12
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each January 15 and July 15: 
 
commencing July 15, 2017 to and including 
 
January 15, 2027 
 
1.25% 
commencing July 15, 2027 to and including 
 
January 15, 2042 
 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-12-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants,” dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“CCRIF” means the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility, an insurance 
facility established as a limited liability company under the laws of the Cayman 
Islands for the purpose of providing catastrophe risk insurance to governments in 
the Caribbean region. 
3. 
“CARICOM” means the Caribbean community and common market established 
by the Treaty of Chaguaramas, on August 1, 1973, and Revised Treaty of 
Chaguaramas (establishing the Caribbean Community including the CARICOM 
Single Market and Economy) on July 5, 2001.  
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants,” dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
5. 
“Insurance Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which serves as the basis upon which the 
Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Financing available to the CCRIF for 
Part B of the Project. 
6. 
“OECS” means the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States, which is governed 
by the Treaty of Basseterre, and consists of the member states of Antigua and 
Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and 
Nevis, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and the associate member 
states of Anguilla and the British Virgin Islands. 
7. 
“Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which serves as the basis upon which the 
Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Financing available to the CCRIF for 
Part A of the Project. 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
 
