Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18066
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
POWER LOSS REDUCTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2677-AL)
JUNE, 1998
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 23, 1998)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek 155 = US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV)    1,000 volts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)    1,000 watt hours
1 Gigawatt hour (GW)      1,000 kWh
1 Megawatt (MW)       1,000 kilowatts
1 kilometer(km)     1,000 meters = 3,281 feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ECA    -  Europe and Central Asia
IPP    -   Independent Power Project
KESH    -  Albanian Electric Power Corporation
ALBANIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President    Johannes Linn, ECA
Sector Director:    Hossein Razavi, ECSEG
Sector Leader:    Henk Busz, ECSEG
Responsible Staff:    Richard Hamilton, ECSEG
Greta Minxhozi, ECSEG



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PAGE
PREFACE   .....................I.........................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................II
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................1.........................
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                           .4
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                                                                9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                                                             9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE.                                                                                   9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .11
H. FUTURE OPERATION .11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...................                .......................... 13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .............................................                         13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .............................................                             14
Table 3: Project Timetable ............................................. 15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements ............................................. 15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................         ....................... 16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .............................................           16
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project ............................................. 16
Table 8: Project Cost .............................................                                   17
Table 9: Project Financing .............................................                              17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................. 18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................. 20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                 21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ............................................. 21
APPENDICES
A. Borrower's Contribution
B. Aide Memoire of Completion Mission
Map: IBRD 28467
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
POWER LOSS REDUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2677-AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Albania Power Loss
Reduction Project (Credit No. 2677-AL, US$5 million equivalent) approved on January 24,
1995. The Government of Albania was the Borrower. The Beneficiary was the Albanian
Electric Power Corporation (KESH). The project was cofinanced by the Government of
Switzerland for an amount of SF3.8 million (US$2.5 million equivalent).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Richard Hamilton, Energy Sector Unit, Europe and Central
Asia Region, and Ms. Greta Minxhozi, Project Officer, World Bank Resident Mission, Tirana,
Albania. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project
Agreements, supervision reports, and an Implementation Report prepared by KESH in May
1998. The report was reviewed by Henk Busz, Energy Sector Leader, Europe and Central Asia
Region.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
POWER LOSS REDUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2677-AL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The Project
1.    The Power Loss Reduction Project was IDA's second project to provide support for
Albania's power sector. IDA's first support was for the Critical Imports Project (2404-AL),
which included a power component for urgent repairs of the Drin River hydropower stations and
the transmission and distribution systems. These purely technical components of the project
were carried out successfully. The more ambitious objectives of the Power Loss Reduction
Project were to: (i) reduce non-technical losses, which were mainly due to the theft of electricity;
and (ii) support institutional reform, while strengthening the power subsector. The Borrower
was the Government of Albania. The Project Beneficiary was the Albanian Electric Power
Corporation (KESH).  The project was cofinanced through a grant of US$2.5 million
(equivalent) from the Government of Switzerland.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.    The loss reduction objective was important in order to achieve two goals. The first goal
was to reduce uneconomical electricity consumption by households and small commercial
enterprises, which was increasing rapidly. The second goal was to ensure that the power sector
could generate cash flow that is sufficient for financing improvements in the supply of
electricity. The loss reduction objective was also clear and easy to monitor. Unfortunately, the
emergence of large-scale theft of electricity jeopardized the project objective. The theft of
electricity is a part of much broader tendency (since 1991 when the communist regime collapsed)
for people to appropriate property that was previously considered social for their own personal
use and to avoid paying for public goods and services-water as well as electricity. Bringing the
electricity theft problem under control would require a strong, determined power company with
full and active Government and legal system support. Although KESH made many correct
decisions and the Government passed sufficient laws and decrees, existing institutions were too
weak and staff was insufficiently motivated to implement changes properly.  Hence, in
retrospect, the target rate of reduction in losses was too ambitious.
3.    The physical components of the project were implemented on time and largely in
accordance with the plan, as defined at the time of appraisal. The project was also closed on
schedule. An amount of US$ 31,400.00 of the IDA credit was cancelled at the time of project
closing. Foreign costs of the project held to the original estimates, but local costs were US$3
million equivalent, or US$1.8 million above the appraisal estimate of US$1.2 million. Part of
the reason for this increase was an expenditure of US$0.5 million on equipment for a power line



iii
to serve a community of recent migrants to Tirana. This component was not included at the time
of appraisal.
4.    Most of the actions in the Power Loss Reduction Action Plan were implemented.
However, the major shortcoming in implementation was that the overall effort to cut illegal
connections (which are so numerous that can be spotted easily in any Albanian city) was
insufficient.
5.    The main objective of the project was not met. Power distribution losses increased from
43 percent of electricity entering distribution networks in 1993 to 57 percent in 1997. The target
for distribution losses at the time of appraisal was 26 percent. The target was adjusted to 34
percent when the Power Transmission and Distribution Project began in June 1996, in order to
ensure consistency. Since power distribution losses rose instead of fell, the economic benefit of
the project was nil. This result does not, however, mean that the meters installed as a result of
the project were a total waste. Meters are essential equipment for ensuring efficient and fair
billing for the legal connections. This benefit was not taken into account at the time of appraisal.
6.    The institutional objective of converting KESH into a joint-stock company was achieved
by the end of 1995. In addition, in accordance with agreements under the ongoing Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Credit 2826-AL), the Power Corporations of Elbasan,
Shkoder, and Vlore were separated from KESH and converted to joint-stock companies. As
specified under the Mass Privatization Program, only 30 percent of their shares were sold in
exchange for vouchers. Because of that, and a lack of concentration of ownership, relations
among the Government and these companies continued much as before.
7.    Technical assistance was provided (financed by a US$150,000 grant from the Swiss
Consultant Trust Fund managed by the World Bank) to modernize KESH's accounting system.
Goals of this initiative were only partially achieved. KESH's auditor provided a qualified audit
report for 1995, noting significant discrepancies between KESH's financial accounts and those
based on international standards.
8.    The above two measures for institutional development are estimated to have only partly
achieved their objectives.
9.    Given the large power distribution losses, KESH's financial perfonnance was better than
might be expected. The main reason is that the cost of hydroelectricity production (which
accounts for more than 90 percent of total electricity production in Albania) was low, and
KESH's debt service expenses were negligible. In 1996, KESH's self-financing ratio was 56
percent, which is above the target of 50 percent (adjusted to 40 percent at the time of
effectiveness of the Power Transmission and Distribution Project). Its debt service coverage was
32.4 compared with the target of 2.0, because KESH has virtually no debt. At the end of 1997,
accounts receivable from retail customers within Albania were equal to 11 months of sales,
compared with the covenanted 2 months. KESH's main debtors were Government budgetary
and non-budgetary entities. It is largely due to the poor payment records of these entities that
Borrower performance is deficient with respect to compliance to this specific covenant.
10.   The breakdown in public order that occurred in March 1997 caused the project a serious
setback. Meters and other loss reduction equipment were damaged and in much of the country,



iv
meter readers and electricity inspectors were placed in serious danger through early 1998. In
addition, the collapse of the pyramid schemes in 1997, made paying for electricity more difficult
for many families. These two factors largely explain why power distribution losses (which were,
from May 1995 through September 1996, several percentage points below the levels in the
corresponding months of the previous year) began a rise that continued into the first four months
of 1998, when they were as high as in the same months of 1995-when the project began.
11.   The prospects for future loss reduction depend primarily on success in consistently
implementing actions started by KESH and the Government in April 1998, under the ongoing
Power Transmission and Distribution Project. The planned introduction of management of the
power sector under a management contract awarded competitively to an experienced foreign
electric utility operator, would further improve the prospects for success. Such a management
contract, which is expected to significantly improve all management systems in KESH as well as
bring about a reduction in distribution losses and increased bill collection, is a necessary
intermediate step towards enabling full-fledged privatization of the generation and distribution
parts of KESH, should the Government decide to do so. However, until these measures are
shown to have a continuing positive impact, the prospects for project sustainability are uncertain.
In the end, widespread illegal electricity consumption and non-payment of bills are socio-
economic and political problems that only strong, sustained and coordinated actions by the
Government and KESH can gradually reduce in magnitude.
12.   Because of its comprehensive approach-based on an Energy Sector Review and a Power
Sector Organization Study-Bank performance was rated as satisfactory during project
preparation. The notion of having a project entirely for non-technical loss reduction, as opposed
to treating loss reduction as a component of a larger power project, was an innovation. Bank
supervision was intensive because it overlapped with preparation of the much larger Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (US$117 million project cost). By emphasizing the
importance of reducing power losses under both projects the Bank succeeded in focusing the
attention of the highest levels of the Government on the problem. Although the project failed to
achieve its main objective, the Bank's performance in trying to assist KESH and the Government
in overcoming difficulties during supervision was satisfactory.
13.   The performance of the Swiss consultants (financed by the Swiss Government) was
highly satisfactory. The consultants created an innovative publicity campaign (encouraging
consumers to get legal connections and pay their bill), helped power distribution companies to
establish computerized billing and loss detection systems in the six largest Albanian cities,
established a meter repair and calibration workshop, and developed a scheme to provide legal
electricity to a community of migrants to Tirana who had been stealing electricity from
neighboring areas.
14.   The performance of the Borrower and KESH  were satisfactory during project
preparation. Necessary measures were taken to reduce non-technical losses, including creating
the electricity inspectorate, initiating surveys of consumer installations, and establishing
contracts with consumers.
15.   During project implementation, KESH procured and installed project equipment more
quickly than expected at appraisal and carried out most components of the Action Plan. Given
the obstacles (including the breakdown of public order in 1997) and the deeply rooted nature of



v
the problem of theft of electricity, KESH's performance is rated as satisfactory, despite the
failure of the project to achieve its main objective.
16.   During project implementation, the Borrower passed a number of laws and decrees
designed to support the project objectives. However, it stopped at that and did not ensure
implementation. Notably, the Borrower did not ensure that Government budgetary and non-
budgetary entities paid their electricity bills, and was not able to provide KESH with the needed
support of the legal system. For these reasons, its performance during project implementation
was rated as deficient. (Recent improvements, as a result of heavy pressure by the Bank and
cofinanciers under the ongoing Power Transmission and Distribution Project, fall outside the
project period).
17.   The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory because the project failed to meet the main
objective of reducing the non-technical losses.
18.   All of the project's objectives are being vigorously pursued under the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project. Any future operations, other than perhaps IPPs intended
for electricity exports, should be contingent on major progress in meeting these objectives.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
POWER LOSS REDUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2677-AL)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    This report evaluates the implementation of the Power Loss Reduction Project, which
was financed by an IDA credit of US$5 million and Swiss Government assistance of SF3.8
million. The Borrower was the Government of Albania. The Project Beneficiary was the
Albanian Electric Power Corporation (KESH). The Power Loss Reduction Project was followed,
one year later, by the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Cr. No. 2826-AL, Board
approval in March 1996). The latter project's loss reduction targets and financial covenants
replaced those of the Power Loss Reduction Project for the later years. In addition, at the end of
1995, the Power Corporations of Elbasan, Shkoder, and Vlore were partially privatized and
separated from KESH and made subject to regulation by a newly established Electricity
Regulatory Board. These enterprises were among those singled out under the Power Loss
Reduction Project for special loss reduction measures. Meters financed under the project were
transferred to these companies by KESH on the same financial terms as KESH received from the
Government. This report presents data on power distribution losses for the three separate
distribution companies as well as for KESH. Because the financial covenants in the legal
agreements for the IDA credit are applicable only to KESH, this report provides financial data
for KESH only.
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to: (i) reduce non-technical power distribution losses
(mainly due to the theft of electricity); and (ii) support institutional reform and strengthening of
the power subsector.  The institutional reform  and strengthening objectives (apart from
strengthening KESH's capability to reduce losses) were: (i) preparation for privatization by
conversion of KESH to a joint-stock company; and (ii) progress toward commercialization by
establishing a new accounting system that is consistent with generally accepted accounting
procedures, improvement in KESH's internal audit function, and improvement in KESH's
financial performance.
Evaluation of objectives
3.    The reduction of losses was important objective  in order to prevent uneconomic
consumption of electricity by households and commercial enterprises, that was increasing with a
fast growth rate. The objective was also important to ensure that the power sector could generate
enough cash flow to finance improved electricity supply. Even before project preparation began,



2
the theft of electricity was overloading distribution and subtransmission systems and causing
outages and equipment damage.  Continued growth in demand, without corresponding
investments to increase supply, was likely to cause major system breakdowns. In addition, the
failure to pay for electricity consumption would deprive KESH of the revenue needed for
minimal system rehabilitation and strengthening. If consumers were obliged to pay fully for
their electricity use, demand growth would be much slower, and KESH would have the financial
resources to provide consumers with safe and reliable electricity.
4.    The loss reduction objective was clear and easy to monitor. Total distribution losses
include technical as well as non-technical losses. The non-technical distribution losses are
defined as the difference between the electricity entering distribution networks and the amount of
electricity sold by the distribution entities minus an assumed level of technical losses. In a
normally functioning Western European power utility, distribution losses (nearly all technical)
would be on average less than 10 percent. The total distribution losses in Albania rose from an
average of 12 percent in 1990 to 52 percent in 1994. When the project began in 1995, the target
was to reduce losses to 26 percent by 1997. Instead they rose to 57 percent.
5.    In retrospect, the target rate of reduction in losses was too arnbitious. Since 1991, when
the communist regime collapsed, it has become commonplace for people to appropriate property
that was previously considered social for their own personal use, and to avoid paying for public
goods and services-water as well as electricity. Initially, this tendency manifested itself in a
spontaneous privatization of nearly all agricultural land in the country. Subsequently, Albanians
began to use public land in cities for the construction of "kiosks" (mainly coffee bars),
restaurants, stores, apartment buildings and single-family dwellings. Similarly, people began
taking electricity for free for cooking and space heating (in place of their previous use of
kerosene and wood), for increased lighting, and for operating many new appliances, such as
refrigerators, water heaters, and air conditioners, that were just entering the country. They broke,
tampered with, or bypassed electrical meters to avoid being billed or to reduce billed amount.
Although there was a large deterioration in the quality of supply, the explosion in the demand for
electricity could be met in short term because Albania had a surplus of cheap hydroelectric
power.
6.    It would have taken a strong and determined power company, with full and active
Government support, to bring the electricity theft problem under control. Although KESH made
many of the right decisions, and the Government passed a number of laws and decrees, existing
public institutions were too weak and KESH staff was not sufficiently motivated to implement
changes properly.
7.    Largely because of the weak Albanian institutions and an increasingly difficult political
situation, the project was unable to achieve its loss reduction targets. KESH and the Bank also
realized at an early point in the project that far more needed to be done on the technical side. As
a result, the IDA credit for the Critical Imports Project (Cr. No. 2404-AL) was reallocated to
finance an additional 36,000 meters at a cost of US$1.8 million. In addition, the IDA credit for
the Power Transmission and Distribution Project provided US$2.132 million for 28,000 meters,
4,000 collective meter boxes, and 500 km of concentric cable intended for reduction in non-
technical losses. Additional financing from the Swiss Government, which would be used to
extend the computerized loss detection and billing system to additional Albanian cities and
construct a second meter repair and calibration workshop, is under consideration. In addition to



3
these initiatives, more than $30 million in new foreign cost expenditures, plus associated local
cost expenditures, would be needed to fully implement KESH's preferred "technical" solution.
This would involve putting meters and current limiters in large locked collective boxes on the
ground floor of apartment buildings and connecting detached dwelling units to the grid using
tamper-resistant concentric cable. Still, even such a larger project would not have been
successful without much stronger institutional support by the Government and KESH than was
provided during the implementation period of the Power Loss Reduction Project.
8.    Should the project have included measures to encourage alternative energy sources?
Such measures were planned at the start of project preparation, but were dropped in part because
the options examined were either found to be uneconomic (peat) or not of sufficient interest to
the Borrower (waste wood or wood from tree thinning in dense forests). In addition, it was
thought that the main commercial options (kerosene and LPG) would be provided in sufficient
quantities by private suppliers once their prices were liberalized and electricity consumers were
obliged to pay the full price for electricity. The decision to drop support of alternative energy
was correct. It is doubtful whether subsidies or expenditures of donor money on alternative
energy would have halted the massive switch to (mostly "free") electricity and would, therefore,
have been wasted.
9.    The institutional reform objective was desirable in itself. Privatization was viewed as
providing the needed incentive to reduce non-technical loses while improving efficiency and
facilitating the financing of investments. Conversion of KESH to a joint-stock company was a
necessary step toward privatization, and was correctly viewed at the time of project preparation
as desirable for reducing day-to-day Government involvement in KESH's affairs.  The
institutional reform objective was given a relatively low priority under the project. Because of
the small size of the Power Loss Reduction Project, this objective should probably not have been
included. It was, however, given a central role under the follow-up Power Transmission and
Distribution Project.
10.   The objective of strengthening KESH's financial management system was appropriate
because KESH has neglected financial aspects in favor of technical objectives. Such a focus was,
of course, common throughout Albania in the early nineties and is beginning to be changed only
gradually. Before the project, KESH did not prepare income or flow of funds statements, and its
existing accounts would have been highly qualified by audits based on internationally accepted
accounting standards. KESH needed a new accounting system to meet the requirements of
Albania's new accounting law. Although strengthening of KESH's financial system was an
essential objective, experience indicated that implementing the system required far more
resources than were provided under the project.



4
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Procurement and Installation of Equipment
11.   At the time of appraisal, it was planned to procure 100,000 single-phase meters with
current limiters enclosed in plastic cases (by using IDA credit) and 11,500 single-phase meters
and limiters for commercial users, 4,000 three-phase current limiters, and 1,000 three-phase
meters for transformers (by using the Swiss Government Grant). Actual purchases included
87,000 single phase meters and current limiters in boxes, 13,000 meters and current limiters
without boxes, 4,700 three-phase meters with boxes, and 3,000 three phase meters. The meters
were procured on time and most of them were installed promptly.
12.   At the time of appraisal, the plan was to distribute the meters to Tirana, Durres, Elbasan,
Shkoder, and Vlore and their surrounding rural areas, which together accounted for 60 percent of
KESH's total power distribution losses in 1992. The comparison between planned and actual
allocation of the meters is shown below:
PLAN       ACTUAL
Tirana         36,000       28,300
DunTes         13,000       13,210
Elbasan        19,000       13,040
Shkoder        23,000       13,050
Vlore          20,500       13,040
Others                      23,358
Total          111,500     103,998
The main difference is the allocation of 23,358 meters to other distribution entities of KESH.
The difference between the total of 111,500 meters procured and the 103,998 meters distributed
is due to keeping some meters in stock.
13.    KESH installed a first batch of meters with limiters enclosed in plastic boxes very
quickly in apartments in Tirana by replacing existing meters (which could be done more quickly
than by putting meters in buildings that had none before). Because of the inclusion of current
limiters, this measure contributed to limiting peak demands during the winter of 1995-96.
Within a few months, however, consumers found ways to bypass the meters. After an assessment
of the intermediate results, KESH temporarily stopped installation in flats and began putting the
new meter and limiter sets in private houses. Later, they began connecting the private houses to
the grid using tamper resistant concentric cable. For apartment buildings, KESH adopted a new
approach of installing meters and limiters (but without plastic boxes) on the ground floor in large
locked metal boxes (about 14 meters per box). The benefits of this approach were: (i) reduced
risk of tampering with or bypassing meters; and (ii) meter readers and inspectors could have
ready access to the meters.
14.   Under the project KESH also purchased, from the IDA credit: six minibuses for
electricity inspectors, of which two were given to the Tirana City distribution entity, and one
each to Durres, Fier, Korce, and KESH; 293 km of concentric cable; 163 radio communication
units; 40 cameras for inspectors; and computer equipment and software. Other goods purchased
using the Swiss grant included: equipment for a meter repair facility; portable meter testing



5
devices; transformers; cables and other equipment to supply electricity to Kamza Hill; and
equipment and software for a computerized loss detection and billing system.
15.   The physical objectives of the project, in terms of timely procurement and installation of
equipment, were substantially achieved. Actual total foreign costs were equal to those projected
at the time of appraisal. The IDA credit was almost fully used (US$ 31,400.00 were canceled at
the time of project closing). Actual local costs were estimated to be US$3 million compared
with the appraisal estimate of US$1.2 million. Part of the reason for the increase was an
expenditure of US$0.5 million for equipment for the power line to Kamza Hill, which was not
included in the project at the time of appraisal.
Power Loss Reduction Action Plan
16.   Most of the actions in the Power Loss Reduction Action Plan were implemented. Key
actions included:
(i) Transfening the Electricity Inspectorate to KESH and reorganizing it into two
sections, one at headquarters and the other one in the distribution entities. This greatly
increased the number of inspectors and allowed KESH to keep 50 percent of the penalties
imposed on delinquent consumers.
(ii) Establishing contracts with consumers based on those used in some Western
countries;
(iii) Completing surveys to determine the status of consumer installations;
(iv) Charging consumers without meters on the basis of average low-voltage
consumption per household in the distribution entity;
(v) Issuing 13,000 temporary contracts to consumers in houses and other premises
occupied without official permission;
(vi) Establishing an incentive scheme for distribution entity employees. The original
scheme lasted for less than one year, and was dropped because of opposition by KESH's
labor union due to perceived inequalities. A proposed new scheme has been accepted by
the labor union;
(vii) Preparing technical standards and manuals for installation of meters, collective
boxes and concentric cable, and for training of meter readers, technicians, and accounting
staff; and
(viii) Implementing a publicity campaign to reduce electricity theft and increase bill
payments.
17.   Experts financed by the Swiss Government made the following valuable contributions:
(i) Assisting in establishing computerized loss-detection and billing systems in Tirana,
Durres, Elbasan, Fier, Shkoder, and Vlore. Development of these systems included:



6
metering at the 2OkV/0.4kV transformation points, creating computerized consumer
databases, preparing computerized procedures for providing prompt comparisons of
electricity sales and collections of electricity supplied to the 0.4 kV networks, and
computerizing collections offices. The systems can also be used to prepare bills by
computer. These systems are expected to become operational in the second half of 1998;
(ii) Assisting in setting up a meter repair and calibration workshop in Tirana with the
capability of repairing 15,000 meters per year;
(iii) Preparing a publicity campaign featuring 12 TV commercials and creating a logo for
KESH; and
(iv) Preparing a scheme to construct a 20 kV power line to serve the Kamza Hill
community on the outskirts of Tirana, which is mainly inhabited by illegal dwellers who
have been taking electricity illegally from a nearby area of Tirana. As of June 1998,
however, construction of the line was held up by opposition of residents along the route
to Kamza Hill.
18.   The main shortcomings in implementation include:
(i) Insufficient efforts by Government and KESH to cut illegal connections, which are so
numerous as to be readily found by the public;
(ii) Inadequate police support to meter readers, inspectors, and technicians who are
obstructed by consumers;
(iii) Unwillingness of the law courts to accept cases of persons accused of electricity
theft, although the distribution companies have sought the prosecution of hundreds of
persons on grounds of violation of the existing law on electricity theft;
(iv) The suspected collusion of many staff employees of the power companies with
illegal consumers and their involvement in meter tampering, even though the companies
have dismissed many persons for such activities;
(v) Insufficiently frequent adjustment of the estimated consumption levels on which
consumers without meters are billed to the rapid growth in consumption (the adjustments
need to be approved by Parliament); and
(vi) Failure to establish contracts with more than a small proportion of the large number
of families who have settled illegally in or near the main cities.



7
Power Loss Reduction Results
19.   Actual distribution losses are compared with the targets as follows:
DISTRIBUTION LOSSES (% OF ELECTRICITY ENTERING DISTRIBUTIoN NETwoRKS)
PLRP1                     PTDP2
Actual (1993) Target (1997) Target (1997) Actual (1997)
Tirana (city)        46            23          N/A            39
Tirana (rural)       46            23          N/A            57
Durres               41            24          N/A           59
Elbasan              50            27           34            57
Shkoder              55            28           34           68
Vlore                55            25           34            62
Total Albania        45            26           34            57
The table shows that distribution losses rose instead of falling. A part of the increase is due to
technical losses, which are estimated to have increased from 14 percent in 1993 to about 19
percent in 1997. The rest of the increase is due to non-technical losses. Because the main
project goal of reducing distribution losses was not achieved, the achievement of sector policy
objectives is considered to be negligible.
20.   At the time of appraisal, the economic benefits of the project were evaluated as the sum
of the economic cost saving attributable to the absolute reduction in electricity consumption from
lowered non-technical losses minus the consumers' willingness to pay for that quantity. On the
assumption that non-technical distribution losses continue after 1997 at the same absolute level
as in 1997, the ex post benefit-cost analysis would show a zero gross benefit to the project
because non-technical losses in 1997 in all of the five target cities considered in the original
economic analysis were above the levels in the base year of 1993. The cost would be the
investment cost of US$10.5 million. An internal rate of return cannot be calculated in this case.
Therefore, there is no need for a detailed recalculation of the project economic analysis. The zero
gross benefit estimate for the project's impact on non-technical losses does not mean that the
meters that accounted for most of the project cost were wasted. The meters are essential
equipment for any power utility to ensure efficient and fair billing. This benefit was not taken
into account at the time of appraisal. One would normally expect this benefit to be at least as
large as the cost of the meters. However, some of the 7,200 single-phase meters and 139 three-
phase meters belonging to KESH that were damaged during the civil unrest in 1997 may have
been supplied under the project.
l PLRP - Power Loss Reduction Project
2 PTDP - Power Transmission and Distribution Project



8
Institutional Reform
21.   At the end of 1995, KESH was converted into a joint-stock company, in accordance with
a provision under the Power Loss Reduction Project. In addition, the Power Corporations of
Elbasan, Shkoder, and Vlore were separated from KESH and converted into joint-stock
companies in accordance with a provision under the Power Transmission and Distribution
Project. Thirty percent of the shares in these three separate distribution companies were sold in
exchange for vouchers provided under the Mass Privatization Program. The companies were
given powers to set salaries and to disconnect private and public clients who do not pay their
bills within specified periods of time, as agreed with IDA. However, their Boards have consisted
almost entirely of Government representatives, and the Government has frequently intervened in
the management of these companies. Therefore, partial privatization has not resulted in any
improvements in terms of loss reduction and improved collection.
Financial Management System Strengthening
22.   Technical assistance (financed by a US$150,000 grant from the Swiss Consultant Trust
Fund managed by the World Bank) was provided to KESH in 1995, in accordance with terms of
reference set out in the Staff Appraisal Report, for modernization of the financial and managerial
accounting system. This assistance achieved only partly its goal. KESH's auditor provided a
highly qualified audit report for 1995, noting such significant discrepancies between KESH's
financial accounts and those based on international standards that the 1995 accounts are virtually
useless as a basis for financial analysis. A much larger technical assistance effort to strengthen
KESH's financial management system, financed by the IDA Credit for the Power Transmission
and Distribution Project, began in October 1997. KESH has been late in furnishing audit reports
to the Bank. They were to be given within six months of the end of KESH's fiscal year (equal to
the calendar year). The report for 1995 was provided in October 1996. The report for 1996 is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, at the same time as the report for 1997. For this
reason, this ICR does not include the usual financial information contained in other reports.
23.   The above two measures for institutional development are believed to have only partially
achieved their objectives.
Financial Performance of KESH
24.   Based on the limited - and possibly distorted - financial information available (para 22),
KESH's financial performance appears to be better than might be expected given the large power
distribution losses. The main reason is that costs of hydroelectric power production (which
accounts for more than 90 percent of total power generation) are small and KESH's debt service
expenses were negligible. In 1996, KESH's self-financing ratio was reportedly 56 percent
(compared with the 50 percent target under the project, subsequently reduced to 40 percent when
the Power Transmission and Distribution Project became effective). Its debt service coverage
was 32.4, compared with the covenanted level of 2, because KESH had virtually no debts.
Estimates of these ratios are not available for 1995, because KESH did not prepare a flow of
funds statement, nor for 1997, as the data were not yet available when the ICR was prepared.
25.   Average accounts receivable by KESH from its retail consumers within Albania at the
end of 1997 were equal to 11 months of sales, compared with the covenanted two months. The



9
main debtors were Government budgetary and non-budgetary entities. It is mainly because of
the poor payments by Government entities that Borrower performance is shown as deficient with
respect to covenant compliance in Table 1.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.   Major factors that affected the project were: (i) two election rounds in 1996; (ii) the
collapse of the pyramid schemes in early 1997; and (iii) the resulting breakdown of public order
in March 1997. The breakdown of public order had serious adverse effects since vandalism
caused significant damage to some equipment used for loss reduction and by reducing the
security of meter readers and inspectors in much of the country, not just in March 1997 but
through early 1998. For KESH, there was damage to about 7,200 single-phase meters, 139
three-phase meters, and 341 collective metering boxes (more than one-third of the number
installed) and the meters inside them. As a result of the damage to the collective meter boxes,
KESH removed the meters from the other collective boxes in mid-1997, and has only recently
reinstalled them. During the election campaigns in 1996, KESH reduced its advertising
campaigns and actions to cut illegal consumption. The collapse of the pyramid schemes reduced
the ability of many families to pay for electricity. The first and second factors largely explain
why power distribution losses (which were, from May 1995 through September 1996, several
percentage points below the levels in the corresponding months of the previous year) began a
rise that continued through the first four months of 1998, when they were as high again as in the
same months of 1995.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   The prospects for future reduction in losses depend on success in implementing actions
started in April 1998 in relation to the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (e.g.,
establishment of a Commission of four key Ministers, which signals an unprecedented strong
Government commitment; appointment by KESH of a loss reduction task force; campaigns to
cut illegal connections; and assurance of greater police support). The planned management
contract for the power sector, followed by privatization, would further improve the prospects for
success. Until these measures are shown to have a continuing positive impact, however, the
prospects for sustainability should be considered as uncertain.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
28.   The Bank carried out project identification, preparation, and appraisal in a comprehensive
and satisfactory way on the basis of an Energy Sector Review and Power Sector Organization
Study. Energy Sector Review looked in detail, inter alia, at household energy alternatives to
electricity, while a Power Sector Organization Study developed the Power Loss Reduction
Action Plan and provided the basis for the financial analysis of KESH. The notion of having a
project entirely for non-technical loss reduction, as opposed to treating loss reduction as a
component of a larger power project, was an innovation. The Bank had already financed
emergency system rehabilitation under the Critical Imports Project. It felt that the loss problem
had to be tackled next before carrying out major system strengthening in order to avoid
overwhelming the strengthened power distribution system with excessive demand, much of
which would disappear as soon as consumers were obliged to pay the true cost of supply. The
Bank's dialogue with the Borrower and the Beneficiary during project preparation contributed to



10
a large improvement in the level and structure of electricity and other energy prices in April
1994, thereby solving in advance and for a few years an issue that affected most other power
projects in the ECA Region at that time. The Bank also helped expedite procurement of the main
meter contract by providing technical assistance to prepare the bidding documents just after the
appraisal mission. On the other hand, given the ambitious project objective, the Bank should
have looked more closely during project appraisal at the risk of project failure and options for
dealing with this risk.
29.   Supervision of the project overlapped with preparation and supervision of the much
larger Power Transmission and Distribution Project (US$117 million project cost), which had the
same loss-reduction and financial-strengthening objectives, plus an emphasis on privatization of
the power distribution entities as a way to solve the loss reduction problem. As a result,
supervision was intensive, and Bank missions kept the Borrower and the Bank regularly and
fully informed of the project's progress and difficulties. By emphasizing the importance of
reducing power losses under both projects, the Bank succeeded in focusing the attention of the
highest levels of Government on the problem. The Bank showed flexibility in adjusting the
Power Loss Reduction Project's targets and covenants during negotiations of the new project.
The new loss reduction targets also turned out to be too ambitious given the evolving situation
(para 26). The Bank assisted in finding financing for additional power loss reduction equipment.
Although the Bank cannot be absolved from all responsibility for failure of the project to achieve
its main objective, its performance in trying to assist KESH and the Government in overcoming
difficulties during supervision was satisfactory.
30.   The performance of the Swiss consultants (financed by the Swiss Government) was
highly satisfactory. The consultants created an innovative publicity campaign. They went
beyond the original terms of reference by establishing computerized billing systems and
preparing the scheme to supply electricity to consumers at Kamza Hill. They also worked
patiently with the staff of KESH and the separate distribution companies at middle and lower
levels to ensure implementation of their sub-projects despite difficult hurdles. In the later stages,
they did so at some personal risk because of the limited public security.
F. BORROWER/BENEFICIARY PERFORMANCE
31.   The performance of the Borrower and KESH was satisfactory during project preparation
and appraisal. They took important measures for reducing non-technical losses, including
creating the electricity inspectorate, beginning the surveys of consumer installations, and
establishing contracts with consumers. In April 1994, the Government introduced an energy and
electricity price structure that compared favorably with those in the rest of Central Europe.
32.   During project implementation, KESH procured and installed the project equipment more
quickly than projected at the time of appraisal. It carried out most of the components of the
Power Loss Reduction Action Plan. It also met the self-financing and debt-service coverage
covenants as well as providing large tax revenue to the Government. KESH's institutional and
organizational functioning was improved, and the staff acquired more professional expertise due
to the new organization of the work and training provided. The Project Implementation Unit
gained substantial experience in the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures and
carried these out competently.



I1
33.   Despite the many positive actions taken by KESH, it was unable to make any sustained
progress toward reducing power distribution losses. Part of this failure is attributable to the
breakdown of public order in 1997, the continuing personal risks to KESH personnel resulting
from the hostility of some illegal consumers, and the institutional weakness of the Albanian
police and legal system. It also appears that many KESH staff, particularly at the middle and
lower levels, were not sufficiently motivated and that some were involved in providing illegal
connections as well as meter tampering. Nevertheless, given the obstacles and the deeply rooted
nature of the problem of illegal use of electricity in Albania, KESH's perfornance is rated as
satisfactory.
34.   The Borrower passed a number of laws and decrees to support project objectives, such as
explicitly defining power theft in law as a crime, fixing consumption levels on which consumers
without meters are to be billed, and converting KESH and the three separate distribution
companies to joint-stock companies. It did not, however, give the companies all the powers
implied in their corporate status. It did not systematically ensure that Government budgetary and
non-budgetary entities paid their electricity bills. As a result, KESH's accounts receivable rose
to 1  months of billings by the end of 1997. The Govermment was also unable to give KESH the
needed support of the legal system toward reducing illegal electricity consumption. For these
reasons, the Borrower's performance during implementation of the project up to the closing date
of December 31, 1997, is rated as deficient. It is recognized that Albania's newly democratic
public institutions are still too weak to properly implement the many laws and decrees passed
over the past few years. In addition, the Government has many other serious problems besides
those of the power sector, including recovering from the collapse of the pyramid schemes and the
breakdown of public order that occurred in 1997.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   The outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory because of the failure to meet its
main objective of reducing the non-technical losses.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.   All of the project's objectives are being vigorously pursued under the ongoing Power
Transmission and Distribution Project.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.   The key lessons learned are:
(i)   The non-technical power distribution loss problem in Albania has become deeply rooted
in the socio-economic and political fabric of society, as evidenced also in the illegal use of other
public utility services such as water. It cannot be resolved by the utility alone but requires strong
and consistent support from the Government and legal system as well. The longer illegal
consumption is allowed to continue, the harder it will be to significantly reduce or eliminate it.
Illegal use of electricity, in turn, makes bill collection from legal electricity users a more difficult
task.



12
(ii)   It may be very difficult to obtain donors or private financing for needed new power
projects until some progress is made towards solving the electricity theft and collection problem;
(iii) The twin trends of growing illegal electricity consumption and unpaid electricity bills
will cause steadily increasing financial difficulties for the power sector, a growing need for the
Government to pay for imported electricity, and a possible major breakdown in the power
system. These trends could create macroeconomic difficulties and social and political problems.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
POWER LOSS REDUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2677-AL)
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of           Substantial    Partial    Negligible       Not
Objectives                                                           applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                  X
Sector policies                                           X
Financial objectives                         X
Institutional development                    X
Physical objectives             X
Poverty reduction                                                       X
Gender issues                                                           X
Other social objectives                                                 x
Enviromanental objectives    j         i            _--                 X
Public sector management    _            _                              X
Private sector development  T____    r_      X
B. Project sustainability     Likely          Unlikely            Uncertain     I
C. Bank Performance           Highly         Satisfactory         Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                   X
Preparation assistance                           X
Appraisal                                        X
Supervision                                      X
D. Borrower/Beneficiary       Highly         Satisfactory         Deficient
Performance                 satisfactory
Preparation           .                          X
Implementation                                                       X
Covenant Compliance                             .                    X
Future Operations (if                            X
applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome      Highly         Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory
x



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit No        Title        Amount         Date of         Status
(US$m)        Approval
Preceding Operation
C-2404-AL          Critical    13.3 (for power   June 1992   Closing Date
Imports        sector)                    June 1996
Following Operation
C-2826-AL          Power           29.5        March 1996    Closing Date
Transmission                               June 30, 2001
and
Distribution



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle     Date planned        Actual date
Identification               N/A                June 1993
Preparation                  N/A                September 1993
Pre-appraisal                N/A                January 10, 1994
Appraisal                    N/A                April 4, 1994
Negotiations                 N/A                November 17, 1994
Letter of development policy (if N/A            N/A
applicable)
Board presentation           N/A-               January 24, 1995
Signing                     N/A                 March 2, 1995
Effectiveness                March 1995         June 9, 1995
First tranche release (if    N/A                N/A
applicable)
Midterm review               N/A                N/A
Second (and third) tranche  N/A                 N/A
release (if applicable)
Project completion          N/A                 December 1, 1997
Loan closing                 December 31, 1997   December 31, 1997
Last disbursement            N/A                October 31, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements, Cumulative
Appraisal Estimate and Actual
(US$m)
FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal      1.2     3.5     5.0    5.0
Actual         0.0     4.46    4.92    4.98
Percent of     0.0     194     98      100
Appraisal
Date of final disbursement: 10/31/97



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report        Estimated       Actual
1 .Distribution losses as % of electricity entering distribution system  26%(1997)    57%
2.Accounts receivable in tenns of months of sales               2 (1997)       11
3.Self-fmancing ratio                                            50%           56% (1996)
I. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. Distribution losses                                          34% (1997)    57%
2. Self-financing ratio                                          40%           56% (1996)
III. Other indicators (if applicable)                           N/A            N/A
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in SARlPresident's Report              Estimated      Actual
1. Distribution losses for year 2000                             15%           N/A
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)                          N/A           N/A
III. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)    N/A           N/A
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at          Status              Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
I.                  Technical Assistance for   Completed, but financing   Objective partially
Modernization of        was not included in     achieved
Accounting System of    project cost
KESH



17
Table 8: Project Cost
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)
Item           Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost
A. Non technical Loss   0.6    6.5      7.1     3.0      7.1       10.1
Reduction
B. Technical Assistance  .01  .3       .3       0.01     0.4      0.4
Total Base Cost       0.6      6.8      7.4     3.01     7.5       10.5
- Physical            .03      .4      .4
contingencies                          I
- Price contingencies    .02   .4      .4
Sub-Total             .7       7.5      8.2
- Interest during     .5      .04      .5
construction
Total Project Cost    1.2      7.5      8.7     3.01     7.5       10.5
Note: The actual/latest estimate includes US$ 5 million and SF3.8 million (US$1=SF1.5) in
foreign costs and 400 million leks (US$=125 leks) in local costs.
Table 9: Project Financing
(US'000)
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Source         Local Costs    Foreign Costs   Total        Total          Total (%)
IDA            0.0            5,000          5,000          5,000         47.6
Swiss Fund     0.0            2,500         2,500          2,500          23.8
KESH           1,191            40           1,231          3,010         28.6
TOTAL          1,191          7,540          8,731          10,510         100.0



18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit Agreement     *Covenant    Status    Original Date     Revised    Covenant Description    Comments
Section            Class                                  Dates
3.01                    10           C         06/09/95                     Borrower to onlend to
KESH
4.02                    12           C         12/01/95                     KESH to be
established as joint
stock company
Project Agreement      Covenant      Status    Original Date    Revised     Covenant Description   Comments
Section                Class                                   Dates
4.01(b)                01            CD        06/30/96         11/10/96    Submit certified copies  Audits for 1996
of audited financial  and 1997 were
statements and       expected
auditor's report.    30/06/98
4.02(a)                02            C                                      Internal cash        Data to provide
generation not less  verification
than 50% of three year  available only for
moving average       1996
capital.
4.02(b)                02            CP        10/31/95                     Review with IDA (by   Complied with
October 31) whether    only in 1995
KESH can meet cash
generation for
following year.
4.03(a)                02            C                                      Debt service coverage   KESH's debt
at 2 times debt service.  service
obligations are
negligible
4.04(a)                02            C                                      Maintain debt equity
ratio at 1.5.
4.05                   02            NC                                     Reduce accounts       11 months as of
receivable to two    31/12/97
______________  _______ months' billing.
4.06                   2.11          NC        10/31/95                     Review annually with
IDA (by October 31)
KESH's proposed 5
year investment
expenditure program.
4.07 (a)                10           CP                                     Carry out
implementation plan
4.07 (b)               10            C         12/31/96                     Project progress
reports
4.08                   01            CD        07/01/95         10/31/95    Appoint Independent
Auditor
Key to Status:
C     = Complied with
CD    = Compliance after delay
NC    = Not complied with
SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP    = Complied with partially
*Covenant Class
1. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
10. Implementation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action



19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All the statements have been in compliance with applicable Operational
Directives and Operational Procedures.



20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Project Cycle     Planned    US$(000)   Revised   US$(000)   Actual   US$(000)
Weeks                  Weeks                Weeks
Through Appraisal    N/A        N/A          N/A       N/A          80.5    211.1
Appraisal-Board      N/A        N/A          N/A       N/A          53.2    183.3
Board-Effectiveness    N/A      N/A          N/A       N/A         *
Supervision           19.2      39.8          13.7     32.6         15.1    26.9
Completion            12.0      24.9          12.0     24.9         5.0    18.0
TOTAL                31.2       64.7          25.7     57.5        153.8   439.3
* Included in supervision time
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Date   Number  Days in  Specialized   Ratings  Inst.        Types of
Cycle                     of       field    staff skills   Impl    Dev      Problems
,________  persons             represented   Status
Up to Appraisal            6
Appraisal                  2       _ 
Supervision 1    05/09/95   3                  EC,PS,PE    S         U       High distribution
losses.
Supervision 2    03/23/96   3                  EC,FA,PE    S         S
Supervision 3    06/21/96   3                  EC,FAPE    S          S Us
Supervision 4   05/17/97   3                   EC,PO, DC   U         U       High distribution
losses/accounts
receivable.
Completion 1    04/98      2          2        EC,PO        U        U      _
Completion 2    06/98       1         6        EC           U        U       _
Key to specialized staff skills:
EC= Economist
PS = Privatization Specialist
PE = Power Engineer
FA = Financial Analyst
PO = Project Officer                                   S = Satisfactory
DC = Division Chief                                    U = Unsatisfactory
Key to ratings: Development objectives as
shown in Supervision Form 590
S = Satisfactory
U = Unsatisfactory



Appendix A. Borrower's Contribution
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT ABOUT THE POWER LOSS REDUCTION PROJECT
PERIOD 1994 - 1997
The distribution system of electric power that includes the 20/10/6/0.4 kV network has
organized its work for the reduction of losses during the period 1995 - 1997, having a principal
support the based study made by the World Bank named "The Staff Appraisal Report December
1994" and "The Power Loss Reduction Project".
To realize the study two important projects were implemented:
* The World Bank Project with a budged of about 8.66 million USD
* A Swiss Project with a budged of about 3.7 rnillion SFR.
A local additional budged of KESH of about 530 million leks was added to the Project.
The following tables give the information for the material supported from these two
important Projects
The World Bank Project
List of equipment      Unit  Quantities  Amount          Project name
0001USD
Meters with individual boxes   Peace  100000    4345       Power Loss Reduction
Landis&Gyr                                                       Project
Concentric cables           Km     292.5         249       Power Loss Reduction
Project
Transport vehicles          Peace      5         128       Power Loss Reduction
Project
Photo Apparatus             Peace      40         6        Power Loss Reduction
Project
Total 1                                         4728
Collective boxes            Peace     4000       675      Power Transmission and
Distribution Project
Integrated Meters Btrading  Peace    14000       736      Power Transmission and
Distribution Project
Non integrated Meters       Peace    14000       366      Power Transmission and
Btrading                                                    Distribution Project
Concetric Cables             Km       500        355      Power Transmission and
Distribution Project
Total 2                                         2132
List of equipment      Unit  Quantities  Amount          Project name
c:\temp\-001 7839.doc



000/USD
Integrated Meters Bticino  | Peace : 36000      1800   Critical Imports Project
Total 3                                         1800
Total 1 + Total 2 + Total 3                     8660
Swiss Project
List of Equipment                Unit                     Quantities
3 phase meters with boxes           Peace                       4700
3 phase meters 3 x 5 A            Peace                       3000
Meters portative apparatus          Peace                        50
Laboratory Stands for meter         Peace                         7
testing
The main goals has been the reduction of the non technical losses ( as a result of the steal
of electric power ), reduction of uneconomic use of electric power aiming the incremerit of
KESH reverses and for the support of KESH's institutional reform.
In accordance with the above objectives and to perform the losses reform duty given by The
World Bank (through the years) the KESH Distribution Directory in collaboration with its
branches has defined the strategy that consists in the following directions.
* Inprovement of the control of consumers by means of strengthen of the branches that
perform this duty and their institutionalization and a better support from governmental
organization to achieve the objectives.
* Effective imnplementation of the investments for the measurement system
In order to realize the above strategy there were undertaken some technical and organizative
measures in accordance with the objectives defined with The World Bank.
1. Organizative Measures
* It was changed the base low of IKPEE ( Inspectoriate of Consumer's control ) No. 7619 date
12.10.1992 by means of this low IKPEE becomes a KESH depended and 50% of the total
value of the charged penalty is submitted to KESH's account.
* IKPEE was included at the selling sector of electric power to be nearer to the problems of
power selling of and to increase the supervision wok and it was compiled a special ruler for
function, action and the way of penalty, and in this ruler it was defined the form of reward of
c:temp\-0017839.doc                                                            2



IKPEE staff in accordance to the paid penalty.
The total work of IKPEE will be more effective it would be approved the Draft Decision
for the supporting of the IKPEE by the Municipal Police because of the special conditions of our
country that makes it necessary.
* It was done the reorganization of the selling sector of electric power being divided in two
subsectors, technical and economic ones. This sector functions in accordance with a ruler
where it is defined the job for each direction and in conformity with the specialization of the
staff.
* It was restructured the statistical form of submission of energy balance and other indications
of this sector for the city and its country side.
It was also defined the method of definition of the total power loss for each transformation
point and feeder and on this base work each entity.
For the entities of Tirana city, Durres, Fier dhe Sh.a. Elektriku Sbkoder, Elbasan e Vlore
owing to the implementation of the Swiss Project of informatization of billings of the selling
sector. It can be realized in a accurate and fast way, by means of computers, the balance of
transformations points and feeders.
This method make it possible the fast analyze of the caused and the fast intervention to
the consumers.
- It was improved the contract for the electric power supply established between the consumers
and the electric entity. This contract was complied in conformity of the type of contract of
some western countries and there were written in it all the sanctions for the protection of the
meters, payment of consumed electricity and any penalty case.
- Based on the guidelines of Swiss specialists it was compiled the Dossier of the Inspection of
the transformation points, which makes possible to observe the metering system of each
consumer and continuously observing for any necessary intervention. This Dossier is a
manual system of each consumer, which includes, reading, billing, installation, maintenance
and inspection.
* In order to realize a better system of billing for the consumers connected without any
permission ( there are more a lot of this kind of consumers in Tirana and Durres ), was
complied the type of a temporary contract which forced the consumer to pay regularly the
electric power bill and to change the contract in a definitive one of six months period,
realizing the supply in accordance to the technical parameters.
It are established up to 13 000 temporary contracts, but generally this kind of consumers
does not pay the electric bill increasing the total value of KESH's debit.
* It was also compiled the individual contract of employment for the employers of the selling
c.\temp\-0017839.doc                                                               3



sector ( readers, technicians, inspectors ). There were also defined the criteria of the wage-
agreement of these employees in accordance with the network losses. We note that such ways
of operation were applied for a very short time because of the contradiction either of the trade
unions or the justice institutions because it was impossible to judge the individual
responsibility.
* It was written the technical condition of installation of the individual boxes and with coaxia
cables and of the collective boxes.
* It was written the manual for the training of the readers, the accounting staff and the
technicians of the selling sector. It serves to know the process of measurement, meters
installation and the compilation of data books, data storage in computers, etc.
* There was improved the casement of electric power in the countryside being performed by
travelr receptors, meanwhile the billing process is performed by the technicians of the
village.
2.Technical Measures
The Project of World Bank (implemented during 1995-1997) by means of the
investments aiming the installation in about 160 thousand residential consumers while the
investment of the Swiss Project will systemize the measures of 47 thousand non resident
consumers and 3 thousand transformation points.
To carry out this investments KESH has allocate a fund of 530 million leks.
To put in order the measurement system, KESH applied the following technical measures
during this period:
* The installation of individual boxes with concentric cables of about 40000 consumers in
private residence and of about 40 000 individual boxes (without concentric cables) in the
buildings.
* The installation of collective boxes of about 26 000 consumers in the buildings.
By means of Swiss Project:
* Were completed the measurement in 2 500 transformation points.
* Was constructed and putted in operation at the beginning of 1996 the center of electric meter
at NEE with an annual capacity 15 000 meters.
* There were equipped with stationary panels control of the electric meters the entities of Tirane
city, Tirane Fshat, Durres, Fier, Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore.
* There were equipped with portable campion meters for the control of the meters to the
consumers for all the electric entities.
By means of these technical measures, mainly implemented during 1996 it was possible
the decrement of the loss curb of the network during this year. We must emphasize that the
c:\emp\-0017839.doc                                                             4



installation of the meters in the collective boxes has been the most effective way where it was
assertion the reduction of losses of 50% of the total value and the increment of 50% of the
registered energy.
We present below the curb of the total power loss realized during the period 1994-1997
58
56_
52 !
5_                                              | +-Losses *
46                     ._
44
1994       1995       1996       1997
In general, all the Project was effective and it was reflected to the decrement of the
indicator of the network losses till February 1997. After this moment our country experienced a
extraordinary political and economical condition. This was sensibly reflected in the selling of
electric power too:
* There were damaged the selling sectors of Korce and Lezhe.
* There were damaged 553 collective boxes.
* There were demonted the meters of a great amount of collective boxes undamaged till that
time in order to protect them from damages.
* There was not allowed the reading process at the consumers house holds and private
(threatening them)
* It was very difficult the control of the consumers by IKPEE and a considerable of the
consumers interfere in the meters.
* There were performed only 40 % of the planned investments for the year 1997.
The consequences of this situation are yet present although the Distribution Directory has
set up the steady state for the operation of the selling sector (except IKPEE that does not
function properly yet) making it possible to reach the value of the losses at 61.5% at the first trial
of 1998.
Based in the positive result of this project and in the positive results of this project and in
the wide specter of problems of KESH for systemizing of the households consumers either with
collective boxes or either with individual boxes. The needs for equipment, materials and other
operations included the total value of this study are attached to this document. To ensure the
c:UemD\-0017839.doc                                                              5



implementation of this study we require to continue the World Bank Project. By the other hand it
is necessary the continuation of Swiss Project to fulfil the process of informatisation of the
selling sector and for repairing the damaged meters.
c:QeimP%-0017839.doc                                                                6



MATERIALS NEEDED FOR THE COLLECTIVE BOXES
No.                 List of equipment's                   Units         Quantities
1    Limitators                                         Peace            87231
2     PVC tubs 0 25nun                                   Km              2457
3     PVC tubs 0 16 mm                                   Km               197
4     Bares Cu - 6mmL                                    Km               7596
5     Bares Cu - 16mnim                                   Km              78
6     Bares Cu - 1.5mmh                                  Km               444
7     Cables 4 x 10 lmm                                  Km                11
8     Cables 4 x 16 mm'                                  Km                13
9     Cables 4 x 25 mni                                  Km                50
10    Cables 4 x 35 mm"                                   Km               10
cOtemp\-0017839.doc                                                                   7



Appendix B. Aide Memoire of Completion Mission
WORLD BANK POWER SECTOR MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.   A mission of the World Bank comprising Mr. Richard Hamilton and Ms. Greta
Minxhozi held discussions in Tirana with KESH and the Government on preparation of
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Loss Reduction Project (Cr.
No. 2677 ALB) during the period March 25 - 31, 1998. The mission would like to
express its appreciation for the helpful collaboration provided. The following is a
summary of the mission's activities and agreements reached.
Information Collected
2.   The mission collected data on procurement and disbursements for goods supplied
under the project as well as information on installation of the equipment and its current
status. The mission also reviewed with the Power Loss Reduction Unit within KESH the
implementation of the various actions of the Loss Reduction Action Plan. The mission
attended the final presentation by a Swiss consultant for the project on his assistance to
KESH to establish computerized systems for loss detection and billing in Tirana, Durres,
Elbasan, Fieri, Shkoder and Vlore, establish a facility in Tirana for repairing and
recalibrating meters, and implement a scheme for providing electricity to a community of
immigrants who are currently tapping lines to neighboring areas.
Preparation of KESH's Contribution to the ICR
3.   The mission was informed that the Power Loss Reduction Unit will prepare
KESH's contribution to the ICR with assistance from the Project Management Unit. The
contribution will be sent to the Bank by April 30, 1998.
Future Operations
4.   The Power Loss Reduction Project was followed by the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Cr. 2826-ALB). The latter project also has as a primary objective
the reduction of non-technical power distribution losses. This project is expected to be
restructured in mid-1998 to take account of setbacks experienced as a result of the
political unrest in Albania in 1997. It was agreed that the future operations plan for the
Power Loss Reduction Project would be the actions to be agreed under the restructured
Power Transmission and Distribution Project for: reduction in non-technical power
distribution losses, improvements in financial performance of the power sector,
establishment of a management contract for the sector and eventual privatization.



113KL) Zb46/
18-30'                        19,00,                        19'30'                        20'00'                                                      21 "00'
FED.    REP.                                  YUGOSLAVIA
TIA                                                                                                      (SERBIA                   EDONIA)
42'30'-
V
A2-00'
F. Y. R.          41'30'-
MACEDONIA
KA
NJE
nie
HER
Fi
,Q
BELARU?
GERMANY
POLAND
LUX.
CZEdlIr
REP                          UKRAINE
r 0,,4pdREP."
A                                 m
ROMANIA
81-
BULGARIA                                                                                                   GRE
Y
20,301                        21-001
DECEMBER1996



