Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2677 ALB
Project Agreement
(Power Loss Reduction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ALBANIAN ELECTROENERGETIC CORPORATION
Dated March 2, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2677 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and ALBANIAN ELECTROENERGETIC CORPORATION (KESH).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
KESH agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and KESH, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be relent to KESH on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS KESH, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KESH declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the 
Implementation Plan with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public 
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) KESH shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
KESH shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and KESH, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project;
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with KESH on said plan; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Association's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. KESH shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) KESH shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
KESH shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by KESH of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KESH
Section 3.01. KESH shall: (a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and (b) by December 1, 1995 reconstitute itself, with the assistance 
of the Borrower as stated in Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, as a 
joint-stock company under the laws of the Borrower and adopt statutes after prior 
consultation with the Association.
Section 3.02. KESH shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
Page  3
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. KESH shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KESH shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including separate accounts reflecting the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project.
(b)
KESH shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, income statements and funds flow, and other related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1994, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 50% of the annual 
average of KESH's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that 
year, the fiscal year preceding and the fiscal year following that year.
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, KESH shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by KESH and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that KESH would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for KESH's fiscal years covered by such review, KESH shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and 
other non-cash operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures.
Page  4
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt service requirements (excluding 
repayments of principal due within twelve months on any debt with 
original maturity of twelve months or more), taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account 
of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations.
(viii)Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt 
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the 
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
KESH shows that the estimated net revenues of KESH for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least two times the estimated debt service requirements of KESH in such year on all 
debt of KESH, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "debt" means any indebtedness of KESH maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred. 
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
Page  5
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by KESH 
not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt 
in question, which both The Association and KESH accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified KESH of 
its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of KESH.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 1.5 to 1.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of KESH maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of KESH not allocated to 
cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. KESH shall take all actions required on its part to ensure that 
the outstanding amounts in its accounts receivable will represent, on average, no more 
than the equivalent of two months' billing.
Section 4.06. KESH shall: (a) review with the Association, by October 31 of each 
year, KESH's proposed investment expenditures program for the following five years; 
and (b) take the Association's views into consideration in finalizing said program.
Section 4.07. KESH shall:
(a)
carry out the Implementation Plan with due diligence and efficiency;
Page  6
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association reports in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
said Plan and the measures recommended to further such progress; and
(c)
thereafter implement all such measures as are required to ensure the 
achievement of the objectives of the said Plan, taking into consideration the 
Association's views on the matter.
Section 4.08. KESH shall, by July 1, 1995 appoint independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association for the purposes of carrying out the audit of KESH's 
financial statements in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
KESH thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify KESH of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For KESH:
Albanian Electroenergetic Corporation
Blloku "Vasil Shanto"
Tirana, Albania
Telex:
Page  7
2173 DPE AB
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KESH, or by 
KESH on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as the Executive 
Director shall designate in writing, and KESH shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
ALBANIAN ELECTROENERGETIC CORPORATION
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be rocured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 (a) of this Section, the 
Association's prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid 
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any 
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, KESH shall 
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Association, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Association, KESH shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
Page  8
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $110,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
from at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures described in Part A hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
