CREDIT NUMBER 2677 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Loss Reduction Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Datedi3u-e,A             , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2677 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated /   aotA       d           , 1995, between
ALBANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   by agreement dated November 1, 1994 (the Swiss Grant
Agreement), the Government of Swiss Federation has agreed to grant
(the Swiss Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
of three million seven hundred thousand Swiss francs (SF 3,700,000)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Swiss Grant Agreement;
(C)   the Project will be carried out by Albanian Electricity
Corporation (KESH) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to KESH the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and KESH;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "Decision No. 340" means the Decision No. 340 of the
Council of Ministers of the Borrower dated August 12, 1992, on the
establishment of KESH;
(b)   "Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan
dated November 16, 1994, agreed upon by KESH and the Association
setting forth a series of actions for the implementation of the
Project;
(c)   "KESH" means Albanian Electroenergetic Corporation,
established pursuant to Council of Ministers Decision No. 340 dated
August 12, 1992;
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and KESH, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and
(e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "Subsidiary Loan" mean,
respectively: (i) the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and KESH pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and (ii) the loan to
be made under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June I and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 2005 and ending December 1, 2034. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on December 1, 2014 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by


﻿-4-
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and o4tstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. KESH is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause KESH to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of KESH
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable KESH to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-5-
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
KESH under a subsidiary loan ,greement to be entered into between
the Borrower and KESH, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall include: (i) ten years
maturity with four years grace period; (ii) interest at a rate equal
to the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury Bonds, plus a margin, as
shall be reasonably determined by the Borrower on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Association; and (iii) foreign exchange
risk borne by KESH.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by KESH
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has


﻿- 6 -
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made; and
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for each
fiscal  year   audited,  in   accordanc--e  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and
(iii)    furnish  to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction upon its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)   take all action required on its part to cause and enable
KESH to reconstitute itself as a joint-stock company pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement; and
(b)   take all actions required to enable KESH to achieve the
financial targets set forth in Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of
the Project Agreement, including but not limited to raising the
electricity prices.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   KESH shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that KESH will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   Prior to the reconstitution of KESH pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement, Decision No. 340 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of KESH to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)   After the reconstitution of KESH pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement, the statutes referred to in said
Section 3.01 (b) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of KESH to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of KESH or for the suspension of its operations.
(f)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Swiss Grant shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation or termination is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under the Swiss Grant
Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the


﻿-8-
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of the Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and KESH; and
(b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Swiss Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by KESH, and is legally binding upon KESH in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿- 9 -
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and KESH and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and KESH in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7,02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
eE4       Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in said Category:
% of
Expenditures
Category                to be Financed
Goods                  100% of foreign
expenditures
2.    For  the purposes of this Schedule, the       term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce uneconomic use of
electricity, increase electricity revenues and support institutional
reform in the power subsector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Reduce unbilled electricity consumption through, inter
alia:
(1)   strengthening of the organization, functions, equipment,
staff and other services of KESH's Electricity Inspectorate;
(2)   installation of meters and     current  limiters, and
establishment by KESH and equipping of a meter maintenance unit to
be responsible for ensuring proper meter testing, calibration and
repair; and
(3)   upgrading of consumer services management, including the
establishment and application of consumer databases and procedures
for concluding separate contracts with consumers, the introduction
of incentive schemes and of improved metering, billing and
collection policies, and the carrying out of publicity campaigns to
promote reduction of non-technical electricity losses.
Part B:     Improve and modernize KESH's financial and management
accounting systems acceptable to the Association and within the
framework of the Borrower's law on accounting.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
F    SECRETAV


