Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19419
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan No.3509
June 30, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by the recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 25, 1999)
Currency Unit        Forint
I HUF    -    US$ 0.004
US$1          241.44 HUF
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1992    1993    1994     1995     1996      1997     1998
79.00   82.76   104.15   114.30   132.50   176.48   214.28
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMEA   -  Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
FDI  -  Foreign direct investments
GOH   -  Government of Hungary
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LPC   -  Logistics Promotion Center
MIS  -  Market information system
MIT      Ministry of Industry and Technology
MOA   -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MTR  -  Mid-Term Review
NBH   -  National Bank of Hungary
PB  -  Participating Banks
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PMDP  -  Product Market Development Project
PSC   -  Project Steering Committee
SFA   -  Subsidiary Financing Agreements
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
TA   -  Technical assistance
HUNGARY'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Roger W. Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Director Kevin M. Cleaver, ECSSD
Sector Leader Laura Tuck, ECSSD
Team Leader: Hoonae Kim, ECSSD



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT LOAN NO. 3509
Contents
Evaluation Summary ...........................................................i
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ...........................................................I
A.  STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                                        .3
C.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                          .5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .11
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .12
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                                         .13
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS                                                          .13
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .13
Part II. Statistical Tables ..........................................................                                         15
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...................................................................                     16
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...................................................................                 17
TABLE 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE ...................................................................                         18
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ....................................... 18
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................................   19
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ...................................................................                20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ...................................................................                             20
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ...................................................................                         20
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...................................................................                21
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...................................................................                 22
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ............................................................. 26
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...................................................................              26
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...................................................................                  26
Appendixes:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Miscellaneous appendixes
D. Map, [BRD No. 26084R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT LOAN NO. 3509
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Product Market
Development Project in Hungary, for which Loan 3509-HU in the amount of US $100 million
was approved on July 13, 1992; signed on August 24, 1992; and made effective on November
18, 1992.
The loan was closed on the original closing date of December 31, 1998. Of the original
loan of US $100 million, a total of US$59.4 million was cancelled through four cancellations-
US $25 million on May 28, 1997, US$1 1.1 million on March 3, 1998, US$9.2 million on May 7,
1998, and the final cancellation of US $14.1 million at closing. The final disbursement took
place on March 18, 1998. The Government of the Netherlands provided 3.9 million Dutch
Guilders (US$2.2 million equivalent) for technical assistance (TA) which substituted for US$0.8
million from the Loan and US$1.0million from the Government for TA under the project.
The ICR was prepared by a team comprised of Hoonae Kim, Michael Nelson, and David
Bontempo of the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit (ECSSD)
of the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Region. The report was reviewed by Laura Tuck, Sector
Leader, and Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio Advisor, of ECSSD. The Borrower (the National Bank
of Hungary) provided a written contribution. A summary is included in an Appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the final supervision mission of the project in
June 1998, followed by the ICR mission of November 1998. It is based on materials in the
project files and discussions with relevant officials of the Ministries of Agriculture, Industry and
Trade, National Bank of Hungary, participating banks and other relevant agencies implementing
technical assistance activities.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT LOAN NO. 3509
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
(i) Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Product Market Development Project (PMDP)
was the sixth agricultural sector related credit line operations that the Bank Group provided to
Hungary. The PMDP was designed at a time when Bank supported credit lines were
experiencing slow disbursement mainly due to the country's severe recession, poor economic
and investment climate, and limited numbers of viable and interested clients. Against this
background, the PMDP was designed as a new generation credit line operation in which
participating banks (PBs) were to play a more proactive role in developing new business and
clients and a new focus was to be placed on lending to private enterprises, particularly small and
medium-scale companies.
Project Objectives
(ii) The overall objectives of the PMDP were: (a) to reduce costs in the overall logistics system
(i.e. packaging, transport, handling, storage, and management of general consumer goods); (b) to
pass the savings to consumers; (c) to add value to products in terms of improved services; (d) to
enhance the competitiveness of Hungarian products in domestic and foreign markets; and (e) to
assist commercial banks to add financing of investment in these new fields.
(iii)  When the project concept was formulated, the above objectives were high priorities and
important for the country and sector. The project was to support relatively underdeveloped
"downstream" marketing, distribution, and trading activities. In addition, the project was also
designed to provide training in these relatively new areas of investment to commercial banks,
and establish the proper legal and regulatory framework for food quality, standards controls, and
supervisory capacity of commodity exchanges. These institutional capacities were virtually non-
existent when the project was formulated.
Implementation Experience and Results
(iv)   Overall, achievement of project objectives was partial mainly due to the factors beyond
the control of the project. The original project objectives were conceived for a different
economic and business environment and most of the objectives became relatively less important
for a World Bank intervention. Most banks were able to restructure and attract capital from



- ~   ~~~~~~~~~  ii
private sources, and they also turned to resources from bilateral sources that were relatively more
attractive than IBRD terms. Against this changing environment, the project was still able to
achieve some of its objectives as it provided a catalytic role for enhancing the overall business
environment and strengthening institutional capacity of public and key private entities, and
supporting development of marketing and distribution sub-sectors.
(v)   Implementation of a Line of Credit Component. Out of the US $100 million loan, a
total of US $40.6 million equivalent was disbursed. After starting briskly, disbursement slowed
down and came to a near halt in early 1997. Starting May 1997, there were four cancellations
totaling US$59.4 million equivalent. Consequently, the total project cost was reduced from
US$254 million at appraisal to less than US $88 million at completion. Financing shares of the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH) and PBs were less than 3% substantially smaller than expected
at appraisal. Meanwhile, actual self-financing by investors was substantially higher at 51%.
(vi)   A total of twelve PBs participated in the project, among them, three banks no longer exist
and some have merged with other PBs through mergers and acquisition. At completion, nine
PBs (some under different names) had effective Subsidiary Loans, among them, six with
outstanding balances totaling US$8.4 million. Some PBs have prepaid the Subsidiary Loan to
the NBH. PBs made sub-loans in local currency at interest rates that included their spreads (3-
6%) over the NBH refinancing rate. This arrangement was identical to previous Bank-financed
credit lines. The maturity was for up to 10 years, including a grace of up to 3 years. A total of
641 sub-loans were made for working capital and investments in sub-sectors such as produce-
marketing, agro-processing, primary agriculture, storage, packaging, transport and distribution,
etc. The average sub-loan size was around US $70,000 equivalent. The repayment rates during
implementation averaged around 80 percent.
(vii)  Implementation of a Technical Assistance Component. This component had six
activities which included: (a) training and business services in logistics management through the
establishment of the Logistics Promotion Center (LPC); (b) training of commercial bank staff in
lending for logistics-related activities; (c) enhancements to the Market Information System
(MIS); (d) food safety and quality control; (e) definition of standards and regulations; and (f)
strengthening of the legal framework for, and supervision of, the commodity exchange. Overall,
the achievement of this component was partial. However, the project helped to identify priority
TA. Although included in the loan, no Bank funds were used for TA as the Borrower obtained a
grant from the Government of Netherlands totaling NLG 3,942,400 (equivalent to about US$2.2
million at the time of implementation).
(viii) Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation. One of the main reasons that
affected the implementation includes significant changes in the banking sector to the extent that
publicly funded support for private sector activities was no longer needed or justifiable. In
addition, some PBs stated that demand for the World Bank credit line was lower than expected
because of: (a) relatively high cost of the World Bank credit line; (b) competing credit lines
available on concessional terms from the government, bilateral and other multilateral sources; (c)
restrictive eligibility criteria for sub-loans such as excluding land, existing production facilities,
second-hand equipment, etc.; (d) the lack of "bankable" projects; (e) disincentives to PBs to
make small-sized loans; (e) the difficult and cumbersome disbursement categories, rather than



- 111 -
disbursing against a pre-set percentage of sub-loans; and (f) the perception of excessive reporting
and additional requirements under the project by participating banks and ultimate borrowers.
(ix)   Bank and Borrower Performance. The Bank's performance during identification,
preparation, appraisal and implementation appears to be marginally satisfactory. The Bank
inputs in supervision were substantially less than the appraisal estimate which envisioned 8-10
staff weeks per year be spent to supervise the project at least twice per year. The appraisal called
for a skill mix of a financial analyst, an agro-industry and product standardization specialist, a
logistics specialist, and procurement and disbursement specialists, with at least three of these
skills to be represented at each supervision. This did not happen. The Borrower believes that
supervision of the TA component by the Bank was, by and large, satisfactory.
(x)   Borrower Performance. The NBH, as the Borrower, is a very experienced
implementing agency of Bank operations. It has successfully executed to completion several
operations including all 12 credit operations that the Bank Group supported in Hungary. The
NBH did not interfere with PBs' lending decision as long as PBs complied with the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Overall, the NBH's performance in supervising the PMDP implementation
was satisfactory, however, the NBH had limited resources for supervision and promotion of the
PMDP, and as a result, the NBH's supervision of the PBs was minimum. On TA, the concerned
ministries' performance in implementation was satisfactory. Appropriate staffing and structures
were put in place for the component's implementation. The counterparts felt strong ownership
and had developed a long-term vision for their component.
(xi)   Assessment of Outcome. Overall, the project outcome is assessed as marginally
satisfactory, as the project development objectives were partially achieved and the sustainability
of similar types of activities is likely. Despite limited "direct" impact of the project, mainly due
to the limited use of the credit line and the substitution of donor funds for TA, the "indirect"
impact of the project as a catalyst to move investment into new areas of activities in logistics and
other downstream activities has been significant.
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
(xii)  Project Sustainability. For the credit component, project sustainability is uncertain.
Most PBs are pre-paying the Subsidiary Loans, and are unlikely to utilize the reflows of Loan
funds for the intended purposes. Indirectly the project has had a positive externality of playing a
catalytic role in enhancing banks' awareness for logistic support, and the project objectives
should be sustained, albeit from alternate sources of funding. The sustainability of the success
achieved under the TA is probable. It is clear that market information systems, food safety and
quality control, and standardization are of critical importance to Hungary, particularly with EU
Accession as a goal.
(xiii) Future Operations. The final outcome of the PMDP demonstrates a logical progression
in phasing down public funding support for developing private activities. At the project's
inception, there was an important role for public initiatives, but this role quickly evaporated as
recovery and bank restructuring took hold. It is unlikely that Hungary would need a similar
support from the Bank Group in the future. Necessary capital - short and long term - should be



- iv -
able to be mobilized by commercial banks from deposits or through domestic and international
capital markets. Moreover, as Hungary is a future EU member, much of the institutional
development, regulatory and control system, is being developed with funding and technical
assistance supported by the EU itself.
Key Lessons Learned
(xiv) The main lessons learned from the project are: (a) the catalytic role of the government in
providing funds to private sector activities should be carefully defined during project
preparation; (b) a line of credit project should be designed in the context of the overall strategy
for banking sector development, including capital markets, and emphasis should be placed on the
overall institutional capacity strengthening of PBs; (c) availability of subsidized resources from
the government or donors has a decidedly negative impact on implementation of a commercial
credit line; (d) overly complex and strict eligibility criteria of sub-loans do not lead to a quality
portfolio and only create additional burdens for participating banks; (e) currency for on-lending
should be based on borrowers needs and currency of their revenue streams; (f) lending to private
investors should be flexible and terms and conditions should be allowed to be modified
according to the changing market conditions; (g) procedures such as disbursement and
procurement should be as simple as possible; (h) too much reliance on grant financing often
leads to false expectations, inadequate financial management, and ultimately to financial
unsustainability of institutions unless a clearly delineated cost-recovery scheme is built in from
the beginning; and (i) in a rapidly changing economic environment, both the Bank and the
Borrower should be proactive and swift in making necessary changes to the project
implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT LOAN NO. 3509
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
Background
1.    When the Product Market Development Project (PMDP) was approved, Hungary had
already borrowed for eleven line of credit operations, of which two had been completed, and
nine were under implementation. Of the eleven, five credit lines were directly for agricultural-
related activities, with three others for industry, two for energy and one for general technology
upgrading'. The total Bank support for these 11 credit line operations amounted to about US
$600 million, but many of them were experiencing slow disbursement, with over US $220
million in aggregate still uncommitted. The Bank sent a mission in 1992 to carry out a review of
all the credit line operations and evaluate the slower than anticipated disbursement of these
operations. The mission found that the main reasons for the slow disbursements were, inter alia,
ongoing and severe recession in the country and uncertainties raised by privatization and
restructuring processes underway at the time, limited experiences in medium to long-term
lending by participating banks (PBs), poor economic and investment climate, and limited
numbers of viable and interested clients. In addition, PBs and investors were sometimes
confused by the different definitions of eligible investments for financing, by the different
percentages of expenditures financed, and by procurement and reporting requirements that were
different from project to project. Finally, the role of commercial banks in credit promotion and
subprojects selection was unclear, as many of the sub-loans were prescreened and pre-appraised
by Bank missions.
2.    Against this background, the PMDP was designed as a new generation credit line
operation in which PBs were to take more initiative and play a more proactive roles in promoting
sub-projects, and a new focus was to be placed on lending to private enterprises, particularly
small and medium-scale companies. PBs were required to bid for (and pay the commitment fee
on) allocations from the Bank loan, hence increasing PB's focus on developing new business and
clients. The PMDP also embodied new and more flexible features, e.g. allowing PBs to rollover
the funds for re-lending instead of back-to-back financing.
Internal Bank memo, dated October 20, 1992



2
Project Objectives
3.    According to the Staff Appraisal Report2, the overall objective of the PMDP was to
strengthen the operational and pricing efficiency of product markets, and thereby to improve the
business environment so that producers and trading companies would be able to adjust to
changing market conditions. Within this broadly defined framework, the specific project
objectives were: (a) to reduce costs in the overall logistics system (i.e. packaging, transport,
handling, storage, and management of general consumer goods); (b) to pass on in part, these
savings to consumers in the form of lower cost; (c) to add value to products in terms of improved
services; (d) to enhance the competitiveness of Hungarian products in domestic and foreign
markets; and (e) to assist commercial banks to add financing of investment in these new fields to
their portfolios.
4.    The project aimed to increase operational and pricing efficiency in marketing, trade and
distribution activities through its support for improvements in market information systems
(MIS), product safety, quality control and standardization; and introduction of improved
technology and practices in logistics management. The project was also expected to assist the
PBs to strengthen their capabilities for assessing the financial needs of enterprises undertaking
improvements in marketing and distribution, and to increase the availability of long-term
financing required by business entities for carrying out efficiency improving investments,
particularly in relation to logistics-related costs. Overall, the project was expected to contribute
to enhancing the competitiveness of Hungarian products in domestic and export markets.'
5.    To achieve these objectives, the project included two components.
(a) A line of credit component to eligible beneficiaries through qualified commercial
banks. Credit was to be given for medium to long-term investments and "permanent"
working capital to those beneficiaries with activities in marketing, trade, and distribution
of consumer goods.
(b) A technical assistance component with six sub-components, which included: (i)
training and business services in logistics management through the establishment of the
Logistics Promotion Center (LPC); (ii) training of commercial bank staff in lending for
logistics-related activities; (iii) enhancements to the MIS; (iv) food safety and quality
control; (v) definition of standards and regulations; and (vi) strengthening of the legal
framework for, and supervision of, the commodity exchange.
6.    These objectives were to be achieved through a US$ 100 million loan that included a
US$99.2 million line of credit and a technical assistance and training component for US$0.8
million. In addition, to strengthen the enabling environment, public and private sector action
programs were defined and a list of actions (including both institutional and policy measures) to
be taken by the Government agencies, and by the private sector agencies concerned, was agreed,
with an indication of the anticipated time-schedule.
2 Staff Appraisal Report (Report 10412-HU), para. 3.01.
3 Supervision Report, August 8, 1996



3
Evaluation of Objectives
7.    Overall, when the project concept was formulated, the above objectives were high
priorities and important for the country and sector. The PMDP, with its program objective as
"private sector development" was to help newly privatized or new entry private entrepreneurs
achieve the aforementioned project objectives through provision of credit for investment and
permanent working capital that was lacking at the time. Beyond supporting production
activities, the project's main emphasis was to develop marketing and logistics management
capacity, which would complement the production and manufacturing emphasis of other on-
going projects supported by the Bank, other international financial institutions, and bilateral
support. It appropriately recognized relatively underdeveloped "downstream" marketing,
distribution, and trading activities, and in particular "logistics management" which covers the
process of planning, implementing and controlling the efficient, cost-effective handling and flow
of goods to conform to consumer requirements. In addition, the project was also designed to
provide training in these relatively new areas of investment to commercial banks, and establish
the proper legal and regulatory framework for food quality, standards controls, and supervisory
capacity of commodity exchanges. These institutional capacities were virtually non-existent
when the project was formulated.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
8.    Overall, achievement of project objectives was partial,mainly due to factors beyond the
control of the project. The original project objectives were conceived for a different economic
and business environment, and when this environment changed, most of the objectives, while
still valid became relatively less important for a World Bank intervention. The project was
designed in a period when Hungary was coming out of a deep recession and going through major
political and social changes. Economic activity was severely affected by the collapse of Council
of Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) markets and major droughts in 1992-1993. In
addition, although enterprises and farms were being privatized and had a great need for both long
term and short term credits, the commercial banking system was in a frail state and was unable to
mobilize the resources necessary for this purpose. This was in spite of the many Bank and other
credit lines available at the time.
9.    The situation changed dramatically in a short period of time. The banking sector
underwent tremendous changes and most banks were able to restructure and attract capital from
both domestic depositors and international capital markets, as well as foreign direct investments
(FDIs) for equity. Therefore, the provision of Government-guaranteed public source loans to
support emerging private sector activities was not as urgently needed as before. Commercial
banks turned increasingly to FDIs and resources from bilateral sources that were relatively more
attractive than IBRD in terms of interest rates and other associated terms and conditions.
Against this changing environment, the project was still able to achieve many of its objectives,
despite the limited overall utilization of the Loan proceeds.



4
Sector Objectives
10.   Achievement of sector objectives was substantial. The project support helped to create a
more effective business climate in the marketing and distribution sub-sectors, and encouraged
the growth of new, private investment in post-harvest downstream private sector activities.
11.   The Government of Hungary (GOH) recognized a greater role for the private sector and
strove to define proper boundaries between their public and private sectors. Some of the key
agenda items for the Government to help promote private sector development included: creating
a business environment conducive to private activities, restructuring the public sector to improve
efficiency and to complement the private sector, improving resource mobilization and allocation
through financial sector development, and channeling financing resources to private enterprises
through various projects. The PMDP at least partially addressed these agenda items through the
provision of credit and technical assistance. The project also helped to rekindle the debate on
what should be the proper nature of public support for private initiatives, and what should be the
appropriate means of intervention.
Institutional Objectives
12.   Overall, achievement of the development objectives of the technical assistance was
partial. The entirety of the technical assistance component was finarnced by the Dutch grant, and
the IBRD funds allocated for this purpose were eventually cancelled. Nevertheless, the project
design had laid the necessary foundations for key areas of institutional and regulatory work. The
TA component contributed to each of the three main objectives of the project, namely: (a)
reducing costs in the overall logistics system; (b) adding value to products in terms of improved
services; and (c) enhancing competitiveness of Hungarian products in international markets.
13.   The LPC successfully demonstrated to companies the importance of good logistics
management for increased efficiency, cost reduction, and improved customer services, which are
critical to competitiveness. As a result, logistics is now a recognized professional field in the
country. International competitiveness has also been enhanced by the improvements achieved in
the function of the commodity exchange. Also, the project helped to define the agenda and
develop the framework for the alignment of Hungarian food quality and safety regulations, and
improvement of food quality standards that are consistent with the EU. This will in turn increase
competitiveness of Hungarian products in the EU and other international markets.
14.  In contrast to the success of the rest of the TA program, achievement of the objective of
assisting commercial banks to add logistics related lending to their portfolio, by training of
commercial bank staff in this type of lending, appears to be marginal.
15.   The project also included a process for developing Public Sector Action Programs
(PUSAPs - 7 programs) and Private Sector Action Programs (PRSAPs - 2 programs). Both were
agreed with the government at Negotiations as a method for guiding the coordination between
the various agencies responsible for project implementation. Five of the seven PUSAPs were
directly linked to the project, as were both of the PRSAPs. Where there was direct linkage, the
majority of the short-term actions in the programs, and some of the medium-term actions, were
undertaken, as they were critical to project implementation. The exceptions are in the PRSAP
related to commercial bankers' training, and in the PUSAPs related to infrastructure and



5
commercial legislation. In the case of the former, it does not appear that much of this training
materialized (see above), and in the latter, though these were important potential outcomes,
project design did not leverage additional resources fortheir implementation.
Financial Objectives
16.   Although a substantially smaller amount (only 41% of the appraisal total) of the Credit
Component was disbursed at the end, overall achievement of the financial objectives of the credit
component was partial. Sub-loans financed in the areas of marketing and distribution
demonstrated to PBs the importance and commercial viability of such investments. Commercial
banks have started and continue to make similar loans using other funds as discussed above.
This ultimate outcome seems to be fully justifiable, as such Bank operations are supposed to
provide a catalytic role for attracting private funds to support private sector development, while
enhancing the overall business environment and strengthening institutional capacity of public
and key private entities. However, the significantly reduced utilization of the Loan proceeds
seems to attest that a credit line operation with a sovereign guarantee to address significant real
sector issues and institutional capacity building goals may not have been the most suitable means
of intervention, particularly in a country such as Hungary, with reasonably well developed
capital markets with good access to international lenders.
17.   More general development of the PBs' institutional and operational capabilities was
pursued under other concurrent Bank operations, under which PBs participating in the PMDP
also received training for further strengthening of the general loan evaluation and supervision
procedures. In some cases, PBs were simultaneously participating in several Bank credit lines.
This general training in banking was perceived to be useful by PBs. On the other hand, the
specific training of loan officers in new lending products such logistics, marketing and
distribution activities was not as well defined and the impact was marginal.
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Overall Disbursement and Cancellations
18.   The loan for US $100 million was approved and a total of US $40.6 million equivalent
was disbursed from the Loan Account. Disbursement was brisk immediately after the project
became effective, starting from the initial withdrawal to the Special Account in November 1992
of US $6 million. However, it slowed down shortly thereafter. The Loan, originally a currency-
pool loan, was converted into a Single Currency loan in US Dollars. Although such conversion
reduced the cost of borrowing, it did not help reverse the slowness in disbursement. After
consistently falling behind estimates, disbursement came to a near halt in early 1997. As a
result, a total of US$59.4 million equivalent was cancelled over four different cancellations
starting May 1997.4
4 Four cancellations were: US$25 million on May 28, 1997, US$1 1.1 million on March 3, 1998, US $9.2 million on May 7,
1998, and the final cancellation of US $ 14.1 million at closing. The final disbursement took place on March 18, 1998.



6
19.   At appraisal, US $0.8 million of the Bank loan funds, US $2.5 million equivalent of
donor grants, and US $1 million from the Government of Hungary (GOH) were envisaged to be
used for the technical assistance component. At completion, no Bank funds were used for TA,
and the Borrower obtained a Government of Netherlands TA grant totaling NLG 3,942,400
(equivalent to about US$2.1 million at the time of implementation). No other donor funds were
provided for TA.
Project cost and financing
20.   At appraisal, the total project cost of US $254 million was to be financed by the Bank
loan of US $100 million (39% of total project cost), a co-financing of US $100 million (39%) by
the NBH and PBs, and US $52 million (20%) by project beneficiaries. At completion, the total
project cost was reduced to around US$88 million, reflecting over 59% of the Bank loan being
cancelled, and also the much smaller than expected co-financing by the NBH and PBs. At
completion, financing shares of NBH and PBs were substantially smaller than expected at
appraisal (less than 3%). Meanwhile, actual self-financing by investors was substantially higher
(51% at completion). Revised project cost and financing plan tables are attached to this ICR5.
Participating Banks (PBs)
21.   The Borrower (the NBH) entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
participating banks (PBs) to on-lend the proceeds of the Loan and the PBs made sub-loans to
final beneficiaries. The Subsidiary Loans to PBs were for up to 15 years including a grace
period up to 5 years. The NBH on-lent the fund in Hungarian Forint (HUF) at prevailing
"refinancing rates" of the NBH. The on-lending rates were variable and ranged between 17-
28%, including the NBH's margin to cover foreign exchange risks, cost of funds and
administration. PBs made loans to ultimate borrowers in HUF at rates 3-6% higher than the
NBH's rates, to cover their administrative cost and lending risks.
22.   Over the life of the project, a total of twelve PBs signed Subsidiary Financing
Agreements (SFAs) with the NBH, with the last PB entering into a SFA in January 1998.
Among them, three banks no longer exist and some have merged with other PBs through mergers
and acquisition. During the project implementation period, these PBs were mostly privatized
and three had foreign equity participation, from countries such as Austria, Belgium, Ireland, or
the Netherlands. At completion, nine PBs (some under different names) had effective Subsidiary
Loans, among them, six with outstanding balances. Some PBs have elected to prepay the
Subsidiary Loan to the NBH.
Sub-Loan Portfolio Characteristics
23.   PBs made sub-loans in HUF at interest rates that included their spreads (3-6%) over the
NBH refinancing rate. This arrangement was identical to previous Bank-financed credit lines.
The maturity was for up to 10 years, including a grace of up to 3 years. A total of 641 sub-loans
were made, which were comprised of, in terms of number, 50% partnership borrowers, 44%
5 If the Dutch TA grant of $2.1 million is added, the total project cost becomes $88.3million. See annex tables for more details.



7
individual investors, and 6% cooperatives and joint stock companies. No loans were made to
majority state-owned companies. The client profile is consistent with the project design.
24.    Sub-loans were made for working capital and investmnents. About two-thirds of sub-
loans, in terms of amount, were for working capital (including permanent working capital) while
the rest were for investment credits with up to a seven year maturity. The sub-sector shares of
sub-loans were: produce-marketing (88%); agro-processing (5%); primary agriculture (2%); and
others (5%), which include storage, packaging, transport and distribution. The maximum sub-
loan or sub-loans to a single beneficiary were not to exceed $10 million. The average sub-loan
size, however, was only around US $70,000 equivalent. The sizes of the sub-loans varied, with
the smallest being for one million HUF, and the largest sub-loan for 300 million HUF (about US
$3 million at prevailing exchange rates at the time of PB's approval), with over 580 sub-loans
falling below 20 million HUF (about US $18,000)6.
Sub-loan Performance
25.   With regard to repayment performance during implementation, on average about 75
percent of the sub-loans were fully current in regard to repayment of principal and interest. This
included about 15 % of the sub-loans where the sub-borrowers prepaid the sub-loans prior to
maturity. The amount of sub-loans outstanding at completion totaled about US$8.4 million.
26.   On average, PBs experienced about 20 % overdue for principal or interest7. Some
outstanding loans were sold by the PBs under the program of debt consolidation introduced by
the Government in 1994, and are no longer on the books of these PBs. PBs expect that, in most
of these cases, the problems are transitional due to market problems or delayed completion of the
sub-projects, and are expected to be resolved. However, in some cases, PBs have initiated legal
proceedings against the sub-borrowers to recover owed amounts.
27.   Overall, the repayment performance of around 80% under this credit operation falls
below some other credit line operations that Bank also supported in the ECA Region. This may
in part reflect the difficulties during the transitional period in the early part of the 1 990s, but it
also may reflect that this was a new area of business for the lenders and the expected training in
assessing risks, etc., envisioned in the TA components, was less than fully satisfactory.
However, currently, PBs interviewed stated that the portfolio quality for similar loans is
improving, as is the case of overall performance of the commercial banking sector.
Ex-Post Analysis of Sub-project
28.   Under the project, the PBs and the beneficiaries were required to calculate financial rates
of return for individual sub-loans exceeding US $300,000 equivalent; sub-loans below this
threshold were to be evaluated by the PBs on the basis of their normal practices with respect to
such sub-loans, including tests of the creditworthiness of the sub-borrowers. In practice, almost
6Exchange rates were substantially devalued during implementation.: Annual average exchange rates were: 1992 (79 HUF to
US$); 1993 (92 HUF); 1994 (105 HUF); 1995 (128 HUF); 1996 (153 HUF); 1997 (187 HUF); 1998 (224 HUF)
7 Supervision mission of June 1996 stated that "repayment performance appears to be deteriorating, and for some PBs, sub-loans
with arrears or defaults in debt service have reached around 20-25%".



8
all the sub-loans were below the US $300,000, so FRRs were not routinely calculated. The PBs
were not required to estimate economic rates of returns (ERRs).
29.   As a part of the ICR exercise, ex-post FRRs were estimated based on random samplings
of about 5% of the portfolio from each PB. Approximately 35 sub-projects were randomly
selected for ex-post analysis for their conformity with the project objectives, and eligibility. For
the samples, analysis of cash flows, financial ratios, status of repayment, and general situation of
the investors was carried out by a local consulting firm. The analysis indicated that 72% of the
companies were "successful" or better, and 97% were "moderately successful" or better,
indicating that most sub-projects in the sample were financially viable. Details of the ex-post
analysis and the full consultant report are available in the project file.
Summary of Issues Identified during Implementation
30.   Too narrow scope of eligible investment. PBs and investors complained that the scope
of eligible investments under the PMDP was too narrow. The Borrower, in consultation of the
Bank, revised the Loan Agreement twice - to expand the eligible investment to include tourism
and mass media/telecommunication activities, and to allow for short-term working capital.
Project objectives related to the credit component were reformulated so that on-lending funds
could be made available to small and medium scale enterprises in rural areas.
31.   Confusion over eligible items for financing. The Loan Agreement, Schedule 2 states
that "sub-projects aimed at establishing efficient new operations or improving the performance
of existing operations related to marketing, trade and distribution activities" are eligible. PBs
clearly understood that financing of "already existing real properties or building" should be
excluded since this would have represented only a "transfer of asset". However, PBs
interviewed stated that they were not clear whether refurbishing existing facilities such as
storage, warehouses, plants, shops, distribution center, etc. to improve production and/or
product-flow efficiencies were eligible for financing. In most cases, PBs opted not to finance
these items. In retrospect, refurbishing or upgrading of existing facilities was consistent with the
project objectives and should have been financed if shown to be viable.
32.   Concentration on working capital financing. Another area of concern which was
identified by a supervision mission in June 1996 was that over 80% of the total amount disbursed
had gone to enterprises engaged in retail and wholesale trade and very limited credit had gone to
improve their marketing and distribution facilities, such as improvement of storage facilities,
wholesale markets for produce, and refrigerated transport. However, there was no record of
follow up on this concern either by the Bank or by the NBH.
33.   Currency choice for sub-loans. Subsidiary Loans were made to PBs in HUF, and PBs
subsequently made sub-loans to final borrowers only in HUF. During implementation, many
investors and PBs wanted foreign currency denominated loans, since many clients, e.g.
marketing companies, were engaged in foreign trades and were earning incomes in hard
currencies. It would have been preferable to give choices to PBs and investors to borrow in both
local and foreign currencies.
34.   Re-lending of reflows. The PMDP credit line allowed PBs to roll over the reflows by
creating revolving funds. PBs were required to use reflows exclusively to finance projects



9
similar to sub-projects in accordance with the PB's lending and investment policies.
Unfortunately, there was no time limit on how long PBs could hold onto the funds if similar sub-
loans were not made. Most of PBs interviewed had not rolled over funds and may PBs had fully
pre-paid their debt to the NBH. In few cases, PBs have included the funds as a part of their
institution's overall liquidity management.
35.   Deterioration of repayment. The June 1996 supervision mission identified a critical
issue -deteriorating repayment performance. A number of PBs were found to be experiencing
sub-loans with arrears or defaults in debt services as high as 20-25% of the total number of sub-
loans made. The Aide-Memoire of the mission states that each of the PBs would carry out an
analysis of the affected sub-loans, which was to have been reviewed at the Mid-Term Review
(MTR). However, during the MTR, there is no record that such analysis was done or followed
up by the MTR mission.
36.   Excessive complexity of disbursement categories. Disbursement categories for sub-
loans by expenditure types made disbursement and information reporting very cumbersome for
PBs. For each sub-loan, the PB had to apply different disbursement percentage to different
expenditures types, e.g. for goods, 100 % of foreign and 75% of local expenditures; for civil
works, 40%; and for consultants under the credit line component, 100%. This meant that each
sub-loan had to be evaluated for the relevant categories and applicable different percentages and
the Statement of Expenditures prepared accordingly.
37.   Delayed Mid Term Review (MTR). A review of the project file shows that a MTR was
first discussed around July 1996 and the Bank and the NBH agreed to a later date of November
1996 at that time. After more delays, the MTR finally took place around mid-May 1997.
38.   Semi-annual Progress Reports. The SAR, para. 4.3, states that semi-annual progress
reports were to be jointly compiled by the NBH on banking matters, by the Project Work Unit in
the Ministry of Industry and Trade on public sector matters, and by the Working Group on LPC.
However, there was no formal requirement in the Loan Agreement that the Borrower submit
them to the Bank for review. A review of the Project file shows that there was one progress
report prepared by the LPC, but no other formal progress reports exist in the file.
39.  In addition, a Project Steering Committee Report on Implementation Progress of July
1996 indicated (and the Aide-Memoire recorded) that the original project objectives were not
being fully met, particularly in the important area of enabling enterprises to reduce the logistics-
related costs through improrements in their marketing and distribution facilities. The report also
noted that there had been very limited interest and participation from manufacturing enterprises
under the credit line, and that most of the sub-loans had been for the retail and wholesale trade
sector. Yet nothing substantial appears to have been done to encourage a wider scale of
enterprises.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
40.   The banking sector went through significant changes in ownership structure. All banks,
with the exception of one, are now privately owned banks and most of them have majority
foreign ownership. In short, the banking sector quickly developed to the extent that publicly
funded support for private sector activities was no longer needed or justifiable.



10
41.   The Borrower and PBs confirmed that at the time of project inception, the Bank's credit
line was one of few long-term credit sources, and demand for it was high. Over the six years of
implementation, however, the macro-economic and banking sector situation changed
substantially and caused the Bank-funded credit line to become less attractive. Some of the main
reasons cited for the low demand of the credit line include, among others: (a) relatively high cost
of the World Bank credit line, and the relatively high cost of the NBH's on-lending rates (Base
rate) which varied between 17-28% (and positive in real terms) in HUF during implementation,
compared to other available credit; (b) credit lines available on concessional terms from the
GOH (e.g. "E Start-Credit Fund" which was on-lent at 8% in HUF), and bilateral and other
multilateral sources (e.g. from Japan, Germany, EIB); (c) restrictive eligibility criteria for sub-
loans (e.g. exclusion of land, existing production facilities, second-hand goods, etc.); (d) the lack
of "bankable" projects during a volatile transition period in which the business and financial
outlook changed rapidly; and disincentives to PBs to make small-sized loans; (e) the difficult and
cumbersome disbursement categories, rather than disbursing against a pre-set percentage of sub-
loans; and (f) the perception of excessive reporting and additional requirements under the project
by participating banks and ultimate borrowers.
42.   The most significant external factor affecting the implementation of the TA was
Hungary's expected early accession to the European Union. Meeting EU membership
requirements was a driving force in the TA implementation, particularly in improvements to the
system for food safety and quality control, and definition of standards and regulation. The
project had helped to identify priority TA and also to leverage alternative resources to support
these activities. In some cases, there were some delays in accessing the Dutch grant, which
somewhat delayed the originally planned start-up activities. However, all activities were
generally implemented according to plan.
D.    Project Sustainability
43.   For the credit component, project sustainability is uncertain. The achievements towards
the original objectives are substantially less than envisaged at appraisal, largely because the
volume of lending was lower than expected, and funds by and large are not being used by the
PBs. Most PBs are pre-paying the Subsidiary Loans, and are unlikely to utilize the reflows of
Loan funds for the intended purposes. The banking system, with its current private sources of
capital, is supporting private investment in Hungary in logistics, marketing, and distribution
types of activities. While the project funds themselves may no longer provide sub-loans
consistent to the original project objectives, indirectly the project has had a positive externality
of playing a catalytic role in enhancing banks' awareness for logistic support, and the project
objectives should be sustained, albeit from alternate sources of funding.
44.   The sustainability of the success achieved under the TA is probable. It is clear that
market information systems, food safety and quality control, and standardization are of critical
importance to Hungary. This is particularly true because of EU Accession and the food quality
and standards activities are well established outside the framework of this project. In addition,
the Agriculture Marketing Regime Office, which oversees the product councils, is the largest
group in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and is supported by central funding, as well as



11
membership fees. The commodity exchange is functioning well, and has its own financial
resources for long-term operations.
45.   Despite the positive outcome of the TA component, there remain, particularly for the
LPC and the MIS sub-components, questions of long-term sustainability. In the case of the LPC,
it was expected at appraisal that the LPC would achieve financial self-sufficiency in a five-year
period, which did not happen. The LPC is now planning to introduce revenue-generating
activities such as training for fee, etc. However, the LPC's services are by and large of a public
goods nature, and it is unrealistic to expect that the LPC will ever reach full financial self-
sufficiency. Without some form of public funding support, the LPC is unlikely to be sustainable
following the expiration of the final installment of the Dutch grant. Similarly, further
achievements in developing the MIS are uncertain. The development of the MIS is being done
primarily with Dutch grant funds for project management, with MOA only contributing some
recurrent costs. The Dutch assistance in the first phase, to define routes for the MIS
development, is completed, but the planned second phase will not be undertaken. The MIS
offices have a serious need for central equipment replacement, which constrains further
development, and for which Bank assistance was requested. The office operates as a non-profit
entity, and at any rate, it is not foreseen that the services it provides would contribute enough
money in fees to expand its operation.
E.    Bank Performance
46.   The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal appears to be
marginally satisfactory. During implementation, however, the Bank inputs in supervision were
substantially less than the appraisal estimate (Annex 15 to SAR) which envisioned 8-10 staff
weeks per year be spent to supervise the project at least twice per year. The skill mix of the
supervision mission was to include a financial analyst, an agro-industry and product
standardization specialist, a logistics specialist, and procurement and disbursement specialists,
with at least three of these skills to be represented at each supervision. This did not happen.
47.   During the project implementation period (between 1992-1998), a total of 8 supervision
missions took place (the seventh one was the Mid-Term Review) followed by an ICR mission in
November 1998.8 In most cases, the supervision mission was comprised of one staff member
(with exception of two missions) for an average duration of about three days (or two to three
supervisions combined in one-week period). The average interval between supervision mission
was about 7 months. With the project experiencing significant disbursement lags starting from
the first year of implementation, the frequency, duration, and the skill mix of the supervision
missions appear inadequate.
48.   The Borrower believes that supervision of the TA component by the Bank seems to have
been, by and large, satisfactory. However, it does not appear that the groups implementing the
TA were sufficiently informed about how the credit line might be used to support their activities.
In addition, the participating commercial banks, although reporting training activities, could not
confirm whether this training was of the type envisaged by the Project. Greater supervision
8A new Task Team took over the project management in late 1997 and carried out the 8th supervision and the ICR mission.



12
attention should have been paid to ensuring that the commercial bank training on lending to the
trade and logistics activities supported by the TA was actually being carried out.
49.   During implementation, the above constraints were discussed several times and recorded
in the Bank's standard documents (i.e. Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office reports, and Form 590s).
Each supervision mission identified similar issues and problems as the previous ones, and
recommended similar actions to be taken by the Borrower, such as more active public promotion
campaigns of the credit line. There are, however, few indications that the Bank or the Borrower
ever took proactive follow up measures to ameliorate the identified issues. Similarly, a Mid-
Term Review, which was originally scheduled during the second half of 1996, was delayed
several times and finally took place in May 1997. By that time, the opportunity and scope for a
meaningful restructuring of the project was probably minimal. Unfortunately, there was no MTR
report in the project file to determine the extent and the scope of the MTR. Some PBs expressed
that the Bank and the NBH could have been more proactive in providing solutions to the above
mentioned constraints.
F.    Borrower Performance
50.   The NBH as the Borrower is a very experienced implementing agency of Bank
operations. It has successfully executed to completion several operations including all 12 credit
operations that the Bank Group supported in Hungary. Overall, the NBH's performance in
supervising the PMDP implementation was satisfactory. The working relationship between the
NBH and the Bank, built up over many years of cooperation, is cordial and professional. The
NBH did not interfere with PBs' lending decision as long as PBs complied with the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. The NBH had limited means for supervision and promotion of the PMDP, and
as a result, the NBH's supervision of the PBs was also minimum.
51.  In the Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) of 1996, there seems to be a
disconnect between the NBH's assessment of the project and the Bank's assessment, the latter
has rated the implementation progress of the Credit line as "unsatisfactory". The NBH and
relevant ministries stated that during the five years of the operation, the country had undergone
such tremendous changes that the original design, scope, and magnitude of the project were no
longer necessary. They also believed that despite the substantial cancellation of the Credit
Component and the complete cancellation of the Bank funding for the TA, the project had
achieved most of the development objectives.
52.   The NBH took decisive actions, albeit which could have been earlier, to cancel a part of
the loan proceeds in 1997, then twice in 1998, with an automatic final cancellation of the
undisbursed amount at the project completion on December 31, 1998.
53.   On TA, the concerned ministries' performance in implementation was also satisfactory.
For each TA sub-component, either appropriate staff levels within existing ministries were
allocated specifically to the component, or structures were put in place for the component's
implementation. In addition, the counterparts felt strong ownership of, and a great deal of pride
in, their achievements. In all cases (except the bankers training), the implementing group had
developed a long-term vision for their component. The Ministry of Economy (then the Ministry



13
of Industry, Trade, and Tourism), the MOA, and the Project Steering Committee (PSC)
supervised the implementation of the TA. Although no Bank financing was used for the TA, the
Hungarian counterparts believed that the project played a catalytic role in expediting or
expanding the successful implementation of the TA.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
54.   Overall, the project outcome is assessed as marginally satisfactory, as the project
development objectives have been partially achieved and the sustainability of similar types of
activities is likely. Despite limited "direct" impact of the project, mainly due to the limited use
of the credit line and the substitution of donor funds for TA, the "indirect" impact of the project
as a catalyst to move investment into new areas of activities in logistics and other downstream
activities has been significant.
H.   Future Operations
55.   As discussed earlier, the final outcome of the PMDP demonstrates a logical progression
in phasing of public and private initiatives for developing private activities. At the project's
inception, there was an important role for public initiatives, but this role quickly evaporated as
recovery and bank restructuring took hold. It is unlikely that Hungary would need a project with
similar objectives and goals in the future. Necessary capital - short and long term - should be
able to be mobilized by commercial banks from deposits or through domestic and international
capital markets. Moreover, as Hungary is a future EU member, much of the institutional
development, regulatory and control system, is being developed with funding and technical
assistance supported by the EU itself The value-added by the Bank has served its purpose, and
this project is likely to be the last of this nature to be supported in Hungary.
56.   Commercial banks that participated in the project, as well as other banks, are likely to
continue to lend for financially viable economic activities, which will most likely include the
activities supported in the project, such as logistics, marketing, distribution, and other post-
harvest activities. As commercial banks, as well as the Borrower, are becoming increasingly
more conscious of the cost of funding, it is possible that the PBs may pre-pay the loan, and like
other Bank loans in Hungary, the Borrower may wish to prepay the Loan as well.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
57.   The main lessons learned from the project are:
*  The catalytic role of the government in providing funds to private sector activities should be
carefully defined during project preparation.
*  A line of credit project should be designed in the context of the overall strategy for banking
sector development, including capital markets.



14
* Availability of subsidized resources from the government or donors has a decidedly negative
impact on implementation of a commercial credit line.
* Overly complex and strict eligibility criteria of sub-loans do not lead to a quality portfolio,
and only create additional burdens for participating banks.
* Currency for on-lending should be based on borrowers needs and currency of their revenue
streams.
* In order to enhance sustainability of a credit operation, emphasis should be placed on the
overall institutional capacity strengthening of PBs, including risk assessment, asset and
liability management, internal control, liquidity management, etc.
* When on-lending to private investors, to the extent possible, terms and conditions should be
flexible and allowed to be modified according to the changing market conditions. Similarly,
procedures such as disbursement and procurement should be as simple as possible.
* Too much reliance on grant financing often leads to false expectations, inadequate financial
management and ultimately to financial unsustainability of institutions unless a clearly
delineated cost-recovery scheme is built in from the beginning.
*  In a rapidly changing economic environment, reactions to changing situations of project
implementation should be swift and proactive, both by the Bank and by the Borrower.
* Reporting and monitoring requirements should be formal and included in a Loan Agreement.



15
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: . Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation & Operation
Table 6:  Studies Included in Project
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 8:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions



16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Ne&Iible        Not aplicable
Macro Policies                      Fl              L                  l
Sector Policies                       l              E                El
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development            jg                              I0  
Physical Objectives                 E               E                LI
Poverty Reduction                   L               L                LI
Gender Issues                                                        El LI  0E
Other Social Objectives             L               L                 LI
Environmental Objectives             n               o               LE
Public Sector Management            n                                 LI o              c
Private Sector Development           n              E3                                  LI
Other (specify)                      n               o                o         
B. Project Sustaiability              Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactoy              Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                       (/)                       (v$)
Identification                                               I                          [
Preparation Assistance                                                                  L
Appraisal                                                                               L
Supervision                         L                         i



17
Highly
D. Borrower Perfornance           satisfactory            Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                       []                                              [0
Implementation                     J                                              El
Covenant Compliance                                                               E]
Operation (if applicable)         I                      I                        II
Highly                                          Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Elg                            El               El
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose             Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations
1. Agricultural Strategy  Agriculture                    1989                 Completed
2. Integrated           Agricultural Marketing           1990                 Completed
Agricultural Export
3. Agroprocessing       Agricultural Marketing           1988                 Completed
4. Agricultural Trade    Agriculture                     1992                  Completed
Following operations
This is expected to be the last Bank project in the agriculture sector.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              06/18/90
Preparation                                             10/01/90
Appraisal                                               10/11/90
Negotiations                                            04/28/92
Board Presentation                                      07/14/92
Signing                                                 08/24/92
Effectiveness                                           11/18/92
Midtern review (if applicable)                          05/04/97
Project Completion                                      06/30/98
Loan Closing                                            12/31/98
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93     FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate      9.00      29.00    51.00    71.00    90.00    100.00
Actual                  5.99      20.33    35.11    42.09    42.53    43.61
Actual as % of estimate    66.56%    71.70%   64.18%   34.75%   2.31%    10.80%
Date of final disbursement  03/13/98



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicator                                        Actual
Financial rates of return of at least 14%       FRRs generally greater than 14%
Maintenance of current ratio above 1.3, a debt/equity    Generally complied with; but very few sub-loans
ratio not exceeding 65/35. And a debt service coverage  bigger than US$300,000 were made
above 1.5 for sub-loans greater than US$300,000
NBH to monitor terms and conditions of Subsidiary    Complied
Financing Agreements with each PB
A steering committee and a Project Work Unit to be    Complied
established to implement and monitor the technical
assistance component
Product Safety and Quality Control, Standardization    Partially Achieved
and Accreditation: harmonization of laws and
regulations
Market Information system for forecasting       Not Achieved
Establishment of a Commodity Exchange           Partially achieved
Training and Business Services in Logistics     Partially achieved
Management
Training of bankers                             Partially achieved
Preparation and implementation of Public Sector  PSAP was prepared the initial actions have place
Action Program to improve environment for marketing
and logistic development
Mid-term review to take place                   Complied with a significant delay
Semi-annual and annual progress reports to be   Not complied
prepared by NBH and PBs on banking matters, and by
the Project Work Unit for technical assistance
component



20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                                Purpose as defined at    Status      Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Survey of Wholesale and Retail  Carried out during preparation   Completed   Provided
business in Hungary                                                       background
information of the
markets
2. Financial data of Wholesale  Pre-appraisal stage study     Completed   Provided
and retail Companies                                                      background
information for
preparation
3. Status of Vegetable and Fruit   Pre-appraisal stage study  Completed   Provided
Wholesale markets                                                         background
information for
preparation
4. An assessment of Logistic    To assess the potential demand   Completed   Provided up to date
related investments             and to promote more active use            information on
of the Loan proceeds                      Logistics related
investment needs
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                  Actual
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
1. Credit                           151.0   99.2      250.2       -         -    86.2
2. TA                                 1.2    3.1        4.3        -        -    2.1
Total                               152.2  102.3      254.5        -        -    88.3
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
IBRD                                        100.0     100.0        -        -       40.6
Co-financing Institutions                     2.5       2.5        -        -       2.1
Govemment                             1.0                1.0       -        -        -
Participating Banks                 100.0             100.0        -        -       1.7
Beneficiaries                        51.0              51.0        -        -       43.9
Total                               152.0  102.5      254.5        -        -       88.3



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
At appraisal, the total project cost of US $254 million was to be financed by the Bank loan
of US $100 million (39% of total project cost), a co-financing of US $100 million (39%) by the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH) and participating banks (PBs), and US $52 million (20%) by
project beneficiaries. At completion, the total project cost was reduced to less than US$86
million, reflecting over 59% of the Bank loan being cancelled, and also the much smaller than
expected co-financing by the NBH and PBs. At completion, financing shares of NBH and PBs
were substantially smaller than expected at appraisal (less than 3%). Meanwhile, actual self-
financing by investors was substantially higher (51% at completion). Revised project cost and
financing plan tables are attached as Table 8A and 8B to this ICR.
As a part of the ICR exercise, an ex-post analysis of sub-loans (about 5% of each PB's
portfolio) was carried out by a local consulting firm under supervision of the NBH9. Out of total
641 sub-loans made under the project, 35 were randomly selected and evaluated for their
conformity with the project objectives, eligibility and viability. For six largest sub-loans greater
than HUF40 million (equivalent to about US$150,000), a full analysis including analysis of cash
flows, estimation of financial rates of return (FRRs), financial ratios, status of repayment, and
general situation of the investors was carried out. The analysis indicated that 72% of the
companies were "successful" or better, and 97% were "moderately successful" or better,
indicating that most sub-projects in the sample were financially viable.
The cash flow analysis of each PB's portfolio indicated that the PBs business practice was
prudent, most of the project were justified and well prepared. Only 17% of the loans belong to
risky category. The overall conclusion of the evaluation was that the project fulfilled its
objective and provided an important financial facility for the Hungarian trade, especially for
small companies and entrepreneurs to improve the logistic and marketing conditions. The full
consultant report is available in the project file.
9. Report on the Analysis of Selected Samples of Subprojects for the Project Completion Report - 3509-HU, Product Market
Development Project, prepared by EconoConsult Ltd., February 1999



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary ID HU-PE-8482
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
GNTEE                04        C
Loan No.
IBRD 35090
Text    04         C                               Guarantor to ensure adequacy of   Complied with
Ref:                                              funds to carry out the Project.
2.02
Text    05         C                               Guarantor to carry out and cause to Complied with
Ref:                                               be carried out Part B of the Project
2.02                                               with due diligence and provide
required funds, facilities, and other
resources.
Text    05         C                               Guarantor to make arrangements   Complied with
Ref:                                               satisfactory to the Bank for
3.01(b)                                            carrying out Part B.l
(arrangements for training and
advisory services in logistics) of
the Project.
Text    05         C                               Guarantor to establish and     Complied with
Ref:                                               maintain Steering committee and
3.03                                               Project Work Unit for the
execution of the Project.
Text    01         C                               Guarantor to maintain adequate    Complied with
Ref:                                              records and accounts for Part B. I
4.01                                               of the Project, have them audited
by independent external auditors,
and submit audit report to the Bank
within five months of the end of
the year.
Text    03         C                               Borrower to make loan proceeds    Complied with
Ref:                                               available to Participating Banks
3.01(b)                                            under Subsidiary Financing
Agreements to carry out Part A of
the Project.
Tex Ref: 03        C                               Borrower to make loan proceeds    Complied with
3.01 (c)                                           available to Guarantor under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
carry out Part B. I of the Project.
Text    03         C                               Procurement of goods and services  Complied with
Ref:                                              to be in accordance with Schedule
3.03                                               4 to the Loan Agreement.
Tex Ref: 05        C                               Borrower to coordinate and     Complied with
3.03                                               monitor execution of the Project
and to supervise carrying out of
obligations by Participating Banks
under the respective Subsidiary



23
Financing Agreements
Text     01         C                                Borrower to maintain adequate   Complied with
Ref:                                                 records and accounts in respect of
4.01(a)                                              part A of the Project.
Text     01         C                                Borrower to have accounts audited  Complied with
Ref:                                                 by independent external auditors,
4.01(b)                                              and furnish report t the Bank
& (c)                                                within six months after the end of
each year.
Text     0]         C                                Borrower to have records and    Complied with
Ref:                                                 accounts related to Statements of
4.01(c)(i                                            Expenditure audited, and audit
v)                                                   report to include a separate opinion
in this regard.
Text     03         C                                Subsidiary finance to be charged    Complied with
Ref:                                                interest rate not less than the
Schedul                                              Borrower's refinancing rate.
e 6, Part
A(l)
Text     03         C                                Subsidiary Finance Agreements to  Complied with
Ref:                                                 be entered into only with
Schedul                                              Participating Banks that have
e 6, Part                                            undertaken to have their staff
B                                                    trained in evaluation of marketing.
trade and distribution projects;
adopted and undertaken to
maintain suitable procedures to
make sub-loans.
Text Ref:
Schedule  01         C                                Participating banks to maintain  Complied with
6, Part                                               adequate records and accounts;
B(d)                                                  have financial statements audited
by independent external auditors;
and submit to the Bank, through
the Borrower, audit reports not
later than five months after the end
of the year.
Text Ref:
Annex to  03         C                                Eligible subprojects are those   Complied with
Schedule                                              related to marketing, trade and
6, Part                                               distribution activities of the
A( I)                                                 Beneficiaries.
Text Ref:
Annex to  02         C                                For sub-loans greater than      Complied with
Schedule                                              US$300,000 equivalent eligible
6, Part                                               sub-borrowers to have satisfactory
A(2)                                                  credit-worthiness rations,
subprojects to have a minimum
rate of return of 14 percent.
Text Ref:
Annex to  09         C                                Each sub-loan over US5 million    Complied with
Schedule                                              equivalent to be made only after
6, Part                                               the Bank's prior approval.
B(l)



24
Text Ref:
Annex to  05         C                                Participating Banks to engage    Complied with
Schedule                                              qualified external experts in case of
6, Part                                               subprojects involving complex
B(2)                                                  technology, and send the experts'
report to the Bank prior to, or with,
the withdrawal application.
Text Ref:  09        C                                First two (three) sub-loans in case   Complied with
Annex to                                              of previously (newly) Participating
Schedule                                              Banks to require Bank's prior
6, Part                                               approval.
B(2)
Sub-loans by Participating Banks   Complied with
Text Ref:  03        C                                to have maturities not exceeding
Annex to                                              ten years, with grace periods not
Schedule                                              exceeding three years
6, Part
C(2)
Text Ref:  03        C                                On-lending interest rates to be in    Complied with
Annex to                                              accordance with lending and
Schedule                                              investment policies acceptable to
6, Part                                               the Bank.
C(2)
Text Ref:  03        C                                Maximum sub-loan(s) amount to a  Complied with
Annex to                                              single Beneficiary not to exceed
Schedule                                              US$10 million.
6, Part
C(3)
Text Ref:  02        C                                Participating Banks to require   Complied with
Annex to                                              Beneficiaries to carry out
Schedule                                              subprojects with due diligence.
6 Part
D(a)
Text Ref:  06        C                                Participating Banks to require   Complied with
Annex to                                              Beneficiaries to comply with all
Schedule                                              applicable environmental
6 Part                                                regulations and to obtain all
D(b)                                                  necessary clearances.
Text Ref:  03        C                                Participating Banks to require   Complied with
Annex to                                              Beneficiaries to procure goods,
Schedule                                              works and services in accordance
6 Part                                                with Schedule 4 of the Loan
D(c)                                                  Agreement.
Text Ref:  01        C                                Beneficiaries with sub-loans over   Complied with
Annex to                                              USI million to have financial
Schedule                                              statements audited by independent
6 Part                                                external auditors, and fumish audit
D(d)                                                  report to the Participating Banks,
for transmission to Borrower of the
Bank, on request.



25
Covenant types:                                          8. = Indigenous people                        Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from       10. = Project implementation not covered by   C = covenant complied with
beneficiaries                                            categories 1-9                            CD = complied with after delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds               I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  CP = complied with partially
4. = Counterpart funding                                    other resource allocation                  NC = not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                                regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                            13. = Other



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was general compliance with all statements of the Operational Manual.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle      Weeks         US$
Preparation to Appraisal        78.6        181.0
Appraisal                       23.8         64.8
Negotiations through Board       12.9        33.5
approval
Supervision                     42.9        119.8
Completion                       8.2         11.1
Total                   166.4       410.2
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating       Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.        Developm. Problems3
Year   Persons  Field                        status      objectives
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through Board
approval
Supervision               03/94     1       4       FA                1 (HS)      1 (HS)
02/95     1       2       FA               S            S
10/95     1      3        FA               S            S
07/96     1       5       FA               U            S             Credit line
05/97     1       6       FA               S            S
06/98     2       3       E, PA            S            S
Completion                11/98     3       10      E, OA, PA         S           S
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
FA = Financial Analyst              etc.                             etc.
E = Economist
PA = Project Assistant
OA = Operations Analyst



27
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Completion Mission
Aide Memoire
November 6 - 13, 1998



28
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Completion Mission -Aide Memoire
November 6 - 13, 1998
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Ms. Hoonae Kim and Messrs. Michael
Nelson and David Bontempo visited Budapest, Hungary from November 6 - 13, 1998, to
carry out the final supervision and completion mission of the Product Market
Development Project (PMDP). The mission held discussions with the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH), the Ministries of Agriculture and Economy, participating commercial
banks, and other agencies that were involved in project implementation. This Aide-
Memoire, which is subject to the World Bank management's approval, briefly
summarizes the findings of the completion mission.
2.    The mission would like to express its sincere appreciation for the cooperation
extended by the Government of Hungary (GOH), various concerned ministries and
agencies, the NBH, and participating financial institutions during the present and the past
missions. The mission would like to thank, in particular, the Department of International
Financial Institutions of the NBH for the excellent support that it has provided prior to
and during the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission.
3.    The main objective of the mission was to evaluate the final results of the PMDP
implementation and achievement of the development objectives and their impact,
including an assessment of the Bank's and of the Borrower's performances. These
results and evaluations will be compiled in the ICR for which the Borrower's input and
comments will be sought. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is currently under
preparation. It was reconfirmed that the loan will close on December 31, 1998 as
expected at appraisal, and that the remaining undisbursed balance (about US$13 million)
will subsequently be cancelled.
Overall Project Implementation Results
4.    At appraisal, the main objectives identified for the project were to: (a) reduce
costs in the overall logistics system (e.g. packaging, transport, handling, storage); (b) add
value to products in term of services; (c) enhance the competitiveness of Hungarian
products in domestic and foreign markets; and (d) assist commercial banks in financing
investments in this (new) field. These objectives were to be achieved through a US$ 100
million loan that included a US$99.2 million credit line and a technical assistance and
training component for US$0.8 million. At completion, a total of US$ 43.5 million was
cancelled from the loan, and the intended US $0.8 million for TA was substituted by a
Dutch TA grant totaling NLG 3,942,400. Despite the substantially reduced size of the
credit line, the Borrower believes and the mission concurs, that the project has achieved,
in large part, its development objectives, particularly in the technical assistance and
training component.



29
Financial Assistance (Credit Line) Component.
5.    As of November 1998, a total of US $41.6 million equivalent has been disbursed
from the Loan Account, including US $1million to the Special Account. Over the life of
the project, a total of twelve commercial banks signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(SLAs) with the NBH, of which six are still active at completion. A total of 641 sub-
loans were made for "permanent working capital", and investments in the areas of
primary production, agro-processing, and product-marketing areas. The sizes of the sub-
loans varied from less than a one million HUF to over 120 million HUF (more than US$
0.5 million at prevailing exchange rates at the time of approval), with over 580 sub-loans
falling below 20 million HUF (about US$ 18,000). The types of beneficiaries varied
from joint-stock companies to individual entrepreneurs. No lending was made to
majority state-owned companies under the project. Financing shares of participating
banks (PBs) were substantially smaller than expected at appraisal (less than 2%-3% of
total sub-project costs), while self-financing by investors was substantially higher.
6.    With the sizeable cancellation of the credit line and changes in financing plans,
total project cost was reduced from around US$ 250 million at appraisal to less than US$
86 million at completion. A revised project cost and financing plan will be documented
in more detail in the draft ICR. Approximately 34 sub-projects were randomly selected
for ex-post analysis of their financial rates of returns, cash-flows, and financial ratios to
be carried out by a local consulting firm. The NBH and PBs have confirmed the sample
project selection, and the Borrower has agreed to finance the analysis, which will be
attached to the ICR.
7.    The Borrower and PBs confirmed that at the time of project inception, the Bank's
credit line was one of few long-term credit sources, and demand for it was high. Over the
six years of implementation, however, the macro-economic and banking sector situation
changed substantially and caused the Bank-funded credit line to become less attractive.
Some of the main reasons cited for the low demand of the credit line include, among
others:
(a) the relatively high cost of the NBH's on-lending rates (Base rate) which varied
between 17-28% (and positive in real terms) in Forint during implementation (it is
currently at 18%);
(b) the availability of other credit lines at concessional terms from the GOH,
bilateral and other multilateral sources (e.g. GOH's "Start-credit," Japan, Germany,
EIB);
(c) overly restrictive eligibility criteria for sub-loans (e.g. exclusion of land,
existing production facilities, second-hand goods, etc.);
(d) the lack of "bankable" projects during a volatile transition period in which the
business and financial outlook changed rapidly;



30
(e) the difficult and cumbersome disbursement categories rather than disbursing
against a pre-set percentage of sub-loans. Bank financed 100% of foreign
expenditures and 75% of local expenditures for goods and civil works, and 40% of
civil works, such that each and every sub-loan had to be evaluated for the relevant
categories and applicable percentages; and
(f) the perception of excessive reporting and additional requirements under the
project by participating banks and ultimate borrowers.
8.    During implementation, the above constraints were discussed several times and
recorded in the Bank's standard documents (i.e. Aide-Memoires, back-to-office reports,
and Form 590s. Several actions were recommended, including more active public
promotion of the credit line. Some PBs expressed that the Bank and the NBH could have
been more pro-active in providing solutions to the above mentioned constraints. A mid-
term review, which was originally scheduled during the second half of 1996, was delayed
several of times and finally took place in May 1997, by which time the opportunity and
scope for a meaningful restructuring of the project was minimal. Consequently, the
disbursement gap continued to grow until disbursement slowed to nearly a halt in May
1997.
Technical Assistance Component
9.    At appraisal, six areas of TA to be provided under the PMDP were identified for
which US $0.8 million had initially been allocated, the Borrower subsequently obtained
alternative financing for the TA from the Dutch government and through its own
resources. The Ministry of Economy (then the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and
Tourism), the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Project Steering Committee (PSC)
supervised the implementation of the TA, and submitted to the mission a detailed
description and an assessment of the implementation results. The Borrower concluded,
and the mission concurred, that all six activities have been satisfactorily implemented.
The six sub-components for TA include:
(a) training and business services in logistics management through the
establishment of the Logistic Promotion Center (LPC);
(b) training of commercial bank staff;
(c) enhancements to the Market Information System (MIS);
(d) food safety and quality control;
(e) definition of standards and regulations; and
(f) strengthening of the commodity exchange.
10.   The mission met with all major counterparts related to the implementation of
these components and generally found all components to have been successfully
implemented; and the development objectives of the project, with respect to the TA, have



31
been largely achieved. In each case, either appropriate staff levels within existing
ministries were allocated specifically to the component, or structures were put in place
for the implementation of the component. In addition, the counterparts felt strong
ownership of, and a great deal of pride in, their achievements. The main exception to
these successes was in the training of commercial bank staff in the area of logistics-
related lending, which appears to have been marginal. Although no Bank financing was
used to carry out the TA, the Hungarian counterparts believe that the project had played a
catalytic role in expediting or expanding the successful implementation of the TA.
Further details of the analysis of each sub-component will be included in the ICR.
11.   Despite the positive outcome of the TA component, however, there remain,
particularly for the LPC and the MIS sub-components, questions of long-term
sustainability. In the case of the LPC, the Bank foresaw at appraisal that the LPC would
achieve financial self-sufficiency in a five-year period. The LPC plans to introduce
revenue-generating activities such as training for fee, etc. However, the LPC's services
are by and large of a public goods nature, and it is unrealistic to expect that the LPC will
ever reach full financial self-sufficiency. It is the mission's view that some level of
government budgetary support will continue to be necessary. This will be especially
critical following the expiration of the final installment of the Dutch grant, which is
scheduled for March 1999.
12.   The supervision of the TA component by the Bank seems to have been, by and
large, satisfactory. However, in general, and in particular for the largest component
(logistics training), there were no specific reporting requirements in the Loan Agreement;
therefore the counterparts did not regularly provide progress reports.
Key Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the project are:
*  In a rapidly changing economic environment, reactions to changing situations could
have been swifter and more proactive, both by the Bank and by the Borrower;
*  Availability of subsidized resources has a decisive negative impact on
implementation of a commercial credit line;
*  The Bank and the Borrower should revisit the rationales and the on-lending
arrangements of a credit operation through an APEX arrangement, including margins
charged, foreign exchange risks, etc.;
*  Overly complex and strict eligibility criteria of sub-loans do not lead to a quality
portfolio, and only create additional burden to participating banks;
*  Emphasis should instead be placed more on the institutional strengthening of
participating banks including risk assessment, asset and liability management,
internal control, liquidity management, etc.;



32
* To the extent possible, the conditions of on-lending to private investors should be
flexible and allow for timely and competitive responses by both the lender and the
borrowers;
* A targeted credit line should be reviewed periodically and broadened, if necessary, to
finance a broader range of investment.
Audit
13.   Since the project has been inactive for some time, it was agreed that a simplified
form of audit, based on international standards would be conducted for the PMDP. The
NBH requested that since the audit would likely to cost only about five thousand dollars,
rather than engaging in a competitive bidding, a direct contracting with one of the main
auditing companies acceptable to the World Bank would be allowed. The mission agreed
to follow-up with relevant authorities in Headquarters.
Next Steps
14.  It was agreed that by early CY1999, the mission would prepare a draft ICR and
send it to the Borrower for comments; meanwhile, the Borrower will initiate the
preparation of its own contribution to the ICR.
Budapest, Hungary
November 13, 1998



33
NParticipating Bank   Initial          Final           Total       % of    % of which  %/ margin   Number of    Largest          Smallest    Subsidiary
Allocation      Allocation      Disbursed    which is      is       above the      Sub-      Sub-project  Sub-project      Loan
(USS)           (ISS)       Amount by   Working   investment   NBHII base    projects                                  Terms
PBs       Capital                   rates
L.ABN-Amro          $17,300,000      $2,150,223       $2,150,224   58.88%     41.12%       3%-5%          35        25 mil Ft     Less than    5-7 yrs incl.
(217,701,000 Ft)                                                                                Imil Ft    3 yr grace
2. Konzumbank       $7,500,000       $7,500,000       $2,615,098   67.47%      32.53%      2%-4%          18         90 mil Ft     I mil Ft     5-7 yrs
(279,968,000 Ft)
3. K&H.             $23,100,000      $20,000,000     $19,334,754   52.85%      47.15%      3%-6%         274        120 mil Ft     I mil Ft     3-7 yrs
(2,423,941,000 Ft)
4. OTP              $11,500,000       $577,313          $576,370    3.44%      96.56%      2%-5%           7                                     5-7
(78,560,000 Ft)                                       recommend                                            I yr grace
by NBH
5. Mezobank         $24,000,000      $13,935,847     $13,925,357   32.41%      67.59%                     292                                   5-lOyrs
(1,496,689,000 Ft)
6. Budapest         $14,400,000       $1994,984        $1994,999   15.10%      84.90%      1.5%-3%        15        120 mil Ft.    Imil Ft
(264,737,000 Ft)
Total               $100,000,000     $54,635,847     $40,596,802   41.57%     58.43%                      641
Participating Bank  Amount Repaid to      %  repaid      Utilization of      Portfolio Quality             Issues identified                  other
NBU                                  Reflows
I.ABN-Amro             157,075,000 Ft      72.15%        Short-term liquidity   Six loans sold @    *Disbursement, land/real estate, *WB process  Just taken over:
management          90%loss       too complicated: env., reporting, procurement  new emphasis on
training, IT,
consumer deposits,
_________________                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~minimizing
2. Konzumbank           20,722,000 Ft       7.4%         Short-term liquidity   0 overdue      *Procurement
._________________                                      management
3. K&H.                121,197,000 Ft      5.28%         Relent & reinvested    1% outstanding    *Project eligibility too restrictive,  PMDP terms
*Procurement, *Liquidation of collateral  acceptable
4. OTP                  23,112,000 Ft      29.42%            Repaid &         2 loans pre-paid    * Land issues, *Procurement, *Cost of WB
Reinvested        no repayment    funds not competitive, *Lack of experience in
problems      long-term lending, *Subsidized credit
5. Mezobank          1,496,689,000 Ft       100%              Repaid          5% overdue=2     * 100% subsidary loan already repaid to NBH   PADP terms
loans=lOmil Ft;                                           favorable
1.8 mil Ft overdue
in interest= 4-5
loans
6. Budapest             80,553,000 Ft      30.43%        Short-term liquidity   Some outstanding   *Disbursement, land/real estate, *WB process  PMDP terms least
management           1%-2%         too complicated: env., reporting, procurement  favorable of all
5.2 mil Ft in                                           loans
suspension (bnkrtp)






PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3509- HU)
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Prepared by the Government of Hungary






NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Review of the
Product Market Development Project (Loan 3509-IH)
from the Borrower's Perspective
The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) received a loan from the World Bank (WB) in
the amount of USD 100 million equivalent for the Product Market Development
Project (PMDP).
The objectives of the project were to strenghten the operational and pricing efficiency
and the enabling environment of product markets so as to assist enterprises engaged in
marketing, trade and distribution activities to establish efficient new operations or to
improve the performance of exisiting operations.
Part A of the project served for financing Sub-loans by Participating Banks to
Beneficiaries for Sub-projects i.e. the loan was onlent to the final beneficiaries through
a number of commercial banks who applied for participating in the program. Part B
covered Technical Assistance for logistics-related services, training of commercial
bank staff, improvement of market information system, strenghtening of food quality
control etc. All these objectives were valid and had priority at the time of designing the
project.
PMDP followed a number of other Worls Bank credit lines borrowed by NBH since
1983 for financing various agricultural sectors, industrial restructuring and energy
conservation. Based on the experience with the earlier facilities and taking into
account the changing environment and new priorities in the early stage of transition,
PMDP focused on assisting private enterprises, mainly SME-s, in a broad range of
activities and in a flexible manner. The total number of the sub-loans in the project
was 641.
By the mid 1990-s more and more alternative funds were available for similar
H-1850 Budapest V, Szabadsdg ter 8/9.
Phone: (36-1)302-3000, (36-1)269-4760 Telefax: (36-1)332-3913



objectives, both from other IFI-s and private sources to finance subprojects and from
bilateral grant donors for technical assistance purposes. This way the loan closed on
the original Closing Date of December 31, 1998 but the disbursed amount was only
40.6 million USD. A total of 59.4 million USD was cancelled in various steps, in
parallel with shrinking market demand while the range of participating banks and their
activity also changed in the course of the years.
As part of the implementation completion evaluation a sample of 35 subprojects was
selected and evaluated in more detail. This analysis reflects the sustainability of most
of the subprojects, indicating that the participating banks appraised the subprojects in
a proper manner and that the implementation of the projects by the final beneficiaries
was successful.
There was a very good cooperation between the Bank the Borrower and various
implementing agencies throughout the project cycle.
In our view PMDP was a very successful project in spite of only partial disbursement.
It helped meeting important development objectives in a complex transition period by
filling the gap in long term financing of new private enterprises until private sources
came along and by giving valuable assistance in strenghtening market institutions.
Budapest, 12th April 1999
General Man



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26084R
16'                                                                                                                                   20'
HUNGARY  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 4 ~~~~~~~~T,UJ~d UKRAINE
M4OTORWAYS              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                            S-oIooI~J4y-
___MAIN ROADS           COUNTY (MEGYE) CAPITALS'                 S  OVA K    RE                ZE OSC-EU-                               S
+' RAILROADS          0   OTHER MAJOR CITIES                                  0
-~~-~-- CANALS       --COUNTY (MEGYE) BOUNDARIES
CANALS  ~      . -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIS
T. W.-                                           T. N-        S-6 ~~~~~7"'--                        EVS                                                /      SZATMAR
.,j'  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ~~~~~~    VESZPREM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~        ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        BR
T. 5.1. M- ~   "o.poio
..                                                            R.poAv              AP*'  T                                                       "I  R         D.
N.&I~~~~~K    1~1 
5  10    20    30    40    SOMILES ~ ~ ~ ~ V..W.ROM                                                                                                                                                           NI
FEJER~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEBR10



