v  '  /                                    / 1 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10412-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 19, 1992
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft.)
(April)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
US$1 = Ft.         50.4    59.1    63.2    75.5    79.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AFEuSZ             Federation of Consumer Cooperatives
BCE          -     Budapest Commodity Exchange
CMEA               Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EC           -     European Community
EFTA         -     European Pree Trade Association
FAO         -      Food and Agriculture Organization
FRR          -     Financial Rate of Return
FSMP         -     Financial Systems Modernization Project
FSMP-II     -      Second Financial System Modernization Project
GDP          -     Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -     Gross National Product
HLA          -     Hungarian Logistics Association
HALPIM       -     Hungarian Association of Logistics, Packaging
and Inventory Management
HMA          -     Hungarian Marketing Association
M-os         -     Hungarian Office for Standardization
IAED        -      Integrated Agricultural Exports Development
ICB         -      International Competitive Bidding
ITCB        -      International Training Center for Bankers
ITR         -      Institute for Transportation Research
LCB          -     Local Competitive Bidding
LPC          -     Logistics Promotion Center
MA           -     Ministry of Agriculture
MIER         -     Ministry of International Economic Relations
MIT          -     Ministry of Industry and Trade
MTTWM        -     Ministry of Transport, Telecommunications and
Water Management
NBH          -     National Bank of Hungary
NTA          -     National Traders' Association
OFMB         -     National Committee for Technology Development
PB          -      Participating Bank
PHARE       -      Poland - Hungary Assistance Recovery in Europe
PWU         -      Project Work Unit
SAL         -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE         -      Statement of Expenditures
STAGEK       -     Statistical Service of the Ministry of
Agriculture
UNIDROIT    -      International Institute for the Unification of
Private Law
HUNGARY - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
Guarantor:         Republic of Hungary
Beneficiaries:    Eligible participating banks (PBs), and the ultimate
beneficiaries, namely, entities involved in marketing, trade
and distribution of consumer products.
Amount:            US$100 million equivalent.
Terms:             Fifteen years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:  NBH will on-lend: (a) US$99.2 million equivalent in Forints
to eligible participating banks at maturities not exceeding
15 years including a grace period not exceeding five years,
at its applicable refinancing rate which will be adjusted
from time to time to keep it positive in real terms and to
cover: (i) NBH's average cost of funds; and (ii) the
expected foreign exchange risk to be borne by NBH; and (b)
Us$0.8 million equivalent to the Government for channeling
to agencies that would organize the provision of training
and advisory services.
Project
Obiectives:        The overall objective of the project would be to strengthen
the operational and pricing efficiency of product markets
and, thereby, to improve the business environment so that
producers and trading companies would be able to adjust to
changing market conditions. Within such a broadly defined
framework, the specific project objectives would be to:
(a) reduce costs in the overall logistics system (i.e.
packaging, transport, handling, storage, and management of
general consumer goods) and to pass, in part, these savings
to consumers in the form of lower cost; (b) add value to
prDducts in terms of improved services; (c) enhance the
cempetitiveness of Hungarian products in domestic and
foreign markets; and (d) assist commercial banks to add
financing of investment in this new field to their
portfolios.
DescriRtion:       The project would address current constraints which impede
the development of improved product markets and flow of
goods. Financial assistance would be available through the
conmercial banking system to beneficiaries to finance
activities related to marketing, trade and distribution of
consumer products. Subloans would average about US$500,O0C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
and would finance investment and permanent working capital
needs of the beneficiaries. Technical assistance would be
available to (i) concerned government ministries and
agencies in support of actions to strengthen the enabling
environment and (ii) private sector institutions to set up
organizational arrangements to promote, enhance and
encourage better coordination in the provision of training
and advisory services in a wide range of logistics-related
activities including inventory management, cost accounting,
and improved business logistics management practices, and to
provide training to bank staff in evaluation of projects in
the marketing, trade and distribution sectors.
Benefits:          The project would contribute to raising operational and
pricing efficiency in marketing, trade and distribution
activities in Hungary through its support for improvements
in the relevant enabling environment including in market
information systems; product safety, quality control, and
standardization; and introduction of improved technology and
practices in logistics management. By assisting commercial
banks to strengthen their capabilities for assessing the
evolving needs of the business entities engaged in these
activities, the project would improve the access of these
entities to the term finance required by them to carry out
viable efficiency-improving investments. This would enable
the entities to realize significant efficiency gains,
particularly in regard to logistics-related costs, which
would increase their competitiveness and profitability.
Overall, the project would contribute to enhancing the
competitiveness of Hungarian products in domestic and export
markets.
Risks:             Macroeconomic conditions will have effects on project
implementation, particularly concerning their impact on the
investment climate and the realization of efficiency gains
by the project beneficiaries. The continued application of
sound macroeconomic policies under agreements with the IMF
and the Bank should help reduce macroeconomic instability
and help sustain a conducive environment for project
implementation. A lack of coordination within the main
conceried public and private sector agencies could affect
the creation of the necessary environment for enterprises to
introduce cost reducing innovations and business practices.
Arrangements to be made under the project would provide for
proper coordination between the main concerned project
agencies, including the carrying out of specific actions to
strengthen t'-, enabling environment relevant to project
implementation. Technical assistance to the ministries and
to the concerned agencies would further help to reduce the
risk.



(iii)
Project Costs:                         Local       Foreign      Total
--------(US$ million)-------
Subproject Credit Component             151.0        99.2      250.2
Technical Assistance
and Training                             1.2         3.1        4.3
TOTAL                              152.2       102.3      254.5
Financing
Plan:                                  Local       Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)--------
IBRD                                       -         103.0       100.0
Participating Banks/NBH                 100.0           -        100.0
Ultimate Beneficiaries                   51.0           -          51.0
Government                                 1.0          -           1 0
Donor Agencies                            0.2           2.3         2.5
TOTAL                                152.2        102.3       254.5
Estimated Disbursement:
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
----------- (US5 million) ------------
Annual             -       9      20     22     20      19     10
Cumulative         -       9      29     51     71      90    100
Economic
Rate of Return:   Not applicable



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY - PRnU'CT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                           Pfge No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (i-iii)
I.   INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
II.  THE PRODUCT MARKET   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A.   Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.  Marketing of Consumer Products   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
C.   Logistics Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
D.   Institutional Setting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
E.  The Enabling Environment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
F.  Bank Involvement in the Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
G.  Rationale for Bank Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
III.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
A.  Project Objectives, Cor'oapt and Design   . . . . . . . . . . . 16
B.  Project Description . .               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
C.   Project Cost and Financ'    Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
D. Procurement                ............. . . . 19
E.  Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
F.  Environmental Impact     ...  .            ..  .    .......  .      ..  .  .    . 22
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS   . . . . . . . . 22
A.   Lending Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
B.  Onlending by NBH   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
C.  Onlending by Participating Banks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
D.   Implementation Arrangements for Action Programs to
Strengthen the Enabling Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
E.  Technical Assistance and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
F.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
G.   Supervision Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
This report was prepared on the basis of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions to Hungary in November 1991 and
January 1992 respectively; both missions were led by Mr. Wayne Ringlien (EC2AW); pre-appraisal mission members
were Messrs. Michael Koch (EC2AW), Richard Henry (EMTAG), Hans Peters (INUTD), Richard Abbott and Jacques
Aumonler (Consultants); appraisal mission members included Messrs. Richard Henry (EMTAG), Michael Koch and
Kishore Nadkarni (EC2AW). The Task Manager is Mr. Kishore Nadkami (EC2AW). The Peer Reviewer Is Mr. Michel
Debatlsse (EMTAG). The Division Chief is Mr. Rory O'Sullivan (EC2AW) and the Department Director Mr. Kemal
Dervis (EC2DR).



V.  ESTIMATED PRCJECT RESULTS . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
A.  Financial Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
B.  Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
VI.  AGkiEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
ANNEBXES
1. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
2. Standardization, Quality Assurance and Accreditation
3. Market Information Issues
4. Food Safety and Quality Control
5. Action Programs to Strengthen the Enabling Environment
6. Estimated Disbursement Schedule of the Bank Loan
7. The Banking Sector
8. Organization of Implementation
9. Trade and Industry Logistics Management - Promotion, Advisory
and Training Services
10. Terms of Reference for Training of Commercial Bank Staff
11. Terms of Reference for Market Information System
12. Terms of Reference for Strengthening of the Food Safety
and Quality Control System and Infrastructure in Hungary
13. Terms of Reference for Standardization and Quality A surance
14. Terms of Reference for Supervision of Commodity Exchanges
15. Supervision Plan
16. Program Monitoring Indicators
17. Subproject Pipeline
18. Sample Investment Projects



HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Macroeconomic indicators look favorable for Hungary in the medium
term despite an estimated seven percent decline in CDP and an inflation rate
of 35 percent for 1991.  Export performance has proven to be remarkably strong
in face of the CMEA collapse and the Gulf crisis in 1991. Direct foreign
investment has been buoyant, reaching over US$1.5 billion, and there are signs
of improved creditworthiness. The economy is beginning to adjust well as
foreign trade and prices have been substantially liberalized, enterprise
management becomes more autonomous from the ministries, and private
entrepreneurs start operating in earnest. There exists a modern tax system, a
two-tier banking system, ! legal framework for bankruptcy and liquidation of
enterprises, a company law and an agency to sell state assets to private
investors.
1.02      These emerging conditions, together with policies to develop the
private sector and the current intensive program to corporatize and privatize
enterprises, could provide the framework needed for the efficient allocation
of resources within the economy and for sustained growth. However, in one key
part of the economy--the marketing process--relatively little progress has
bep- made as yet and this seriously constrains transmission of efficiency
gaii.s from price and import liberalization within the economy. The
si9: ificant inefficiencies in this subsector, i.e., over-aized inventories,
long order cycle times, poorly managed and inadequate warehouse capacity, that
are part of the legacy of the now abandoned central planning system, need to
be addressed urgently if Hungary is to compete with other market economies on
an equal basis and if businesses are to respond to the correct market price
signals.
1.03     With this in view, the Bank organized a series of four country visits
between April 1989 and January 1992 to help Hungarian public and private
sector entities formulate the proposed project, which is designed to help the
Hungarians start addressing the problem of marketing inefficiencies. The
project was appraised in January 1992. Additional documents concerning the
project are listed in Annex 1.
II. THE nRODUCT MARKET
A. Introduction
2.01     The product market covers the whole process of moving raw material
and products from farm or factory to the consumer. An efficient product
market generates signals which permit firms to respond quickly to changing
market demand. While the main part of this process involves wholesale and
retail operations, even upstream of wholesalers, inventory storage and product



-2-
handling by producers comes under the product market heading. Inefficiencies
in this process by producers, wholesalers, retailers and exporters can cause
sharply increased costs of production for producers and increased prices for
consumers or lost export markets. In addition, these inefficiencies can
distort the market signals received by producers and result in a misallocation
of capital. The following sections describe the main features of the present
organization of the marketing of consumer products, including wholesale and
retail trade, in Hungary; the current state of logistics management and the
constraints to improving efficiency; and the institutional setting as relevant
to the product Ltarket. This is followed by an indication of the improvements
needed in the enabling environment as affects the product market. Bank
involvement in the sector and the rationale for Bank support are presented
thereafter.
B. Marketing of Consumer Products
Background
2.02     Consumer products covered under the project are typically those that
are sold in food and non-food convenience stores, grocery stores, department
stores and supermarkets. Consumption expenditures accounted for nearly 65% of
GNP in 1991. Of the total consumption expenditures, food and related items
were by far the most dominant group accounting for about 40%, followed by
clothing at 12%, and assorted other consumption expenditures, including
expenditures on services, for the balance. At the retail level, food products
(excluding the food service sector) account for around 70% of the total
turnover.
2.03     Producers of consumer products generally market their products to the
final consumers through intermediaries who may be brokers, wholesalers, or
retailers. Brokers are instrumental in bringing together potential buyers and
sellers, and their role is particularly significant as concerns marketing of
the output of large numbers of smali and scattered producers to wholesalers.
Wholesalers specialize in bulk purchases of selected items for resale to
retailers. The main types of retailers are department stores, supermarkets,
grocery stores, convenience stores, and specialty stores. The retail stores
may either be independent or part of a chain. Some producers may have
marketing operations directly with the retailers. Foreign trade comRanies
specialize in import and exports of consumer goods but may participate in
other activities as well, e.g., production and retailing.
2.04     As a result of the liberalization introduced in the domestic and
foreign trading regulations under the Government's overall economic reform
program, the situation in the marketing, trade and distribution area has been
changing rapidly in Hungary since 1988. Prior to that, there was strict
compartmentalization i.e that the producers, wholesalers, retailers and foreign
trade companies had limi;ed, strictly controlled ranges of activities and
spheres of influence in particular geographic regions. This has changed with
the regulatory liberalization resulting in firms increasingly venturing across
traditional boundaries and engaging in new activities, e.g., wholesalers
venturing into retailing, retailers into wholesaling and foreign trading, and
producers into retailing and foreign trading.



-3-
2.05     Top level managers of major companies are usually well travelled and
have observed new practices and technologies in Western market economies.
However, the costs and benefits of these practices and technologies are not
widely known in Hungary and each company is experimenting on its own with some
emerging support from specific associations such as those for trade,
marketing, franchising and logistics. The state of technology in a few of the
companies' facilities approaches Western European standards, but there is
little consistenc- among the different units and gaps in the distribution
network inhibit the efficient use of the technology. Over the last two years,
several reputed Western European wholesale and retail companies have studied
opportunities for investment in Hungary and a number of joint ventures have
been established. These companies are leaders in their fields and are
expected to have a demonstration effect on the upgrading of wholesale and
retail practices, including through the competitive pressures generated by
their activities.
Producers
2.06     Producers of consumer products include farms, agroprocessors, and a
diverse range of enterprises that produce a wide variety of non-food consumer
products. In respect of food products, although state farms and agricultural
cooperatives still dominate agricultural production, the role of the private
sector has been growing and is expected to accelerate further with the recent
passage of the Cooperative and Transformation Laws which require the
reorganization of cooperatives based on a clear definition of ownership
rights. The private sector is particularly significant in certain niches of
agricultural and food production, e.g., fruits and vegetables. Agroprocessing
as well continues to be dominated by state and cooperative ownership but
privatization plans are being pursued under the Government's enterprise reform
and privatization program. The bulk of non-processed farm production is sold
through wholesalers; agroprocessors are less dependent on wholesalers, selling
close to half of their production directly to retailers. Small farmers, in
particular, face marketing problems in collecting, sorting and grading their
output. Wholesale markets that allow greater interface between the producers
and consumers, and discovery of market prices, have been established for some
products, e.g., flowers, fruits and vegetables in Budapest and some of the
larger cities but there is a need to expand further these types of markets and
to improve the functioning of existing ones. Both producers and distributors
are constrained by a lack of timely and relevant information on prices and
qualities on a national, regional and local level. The project supports
improvements in these areas (paras. 2.29 to 2.34).
Wholesalers
2.07     The number of registered wholesalers has increased substantially from
about 150 in 1985 to over 1,000 in 1990. Although the traditional wholesaling
firms still account for a dominant share of the market, competition is
increasing from other sources, e.g., from retailers integrating backwards into
wholesaling and increasing their direct purchasing from producers.   Many
wholesalers are going through an important adaptation period, trying to
increase their volume of )perations and their efficiency through expanding
their product lines and even developing and owning retail chains themselves.
To modernize their operations, wholesalers need financing for investment in
product handling equipment; packaging; storage and display facilities



-4-
including refrigerated installations in the stores and warehouses; updating of
wa.ehouses; transportation equipment; and general use of more sophisticated
computer based systems for concrol of operations and for decision making. As
important, they need additional permanent working capital to broaden their
product lines and increase their volume of opi.rations. These kinds of ongoing
efforts and the promotion of new ones which would make wholesalers more
efficient would be supported by the project.
Retailers
2.08     There has been a rapid expansion in the number of retail outlets
since 1988.   In 1990, the total number of retail outlets was about 56,000, of
which around 18,000 were under state ownership or cooperatives and the balar:.e
in the private sector. The food anc related produnts sector again accounted
for a major share of total retail o'-' t-s (40%), followed by clothing (15%),
and others (45%).  The number of o   e*, under state or cooperative ownership
has tended to decline while that under private ownership has been growing
supported by the Government's program of retail privatization (para. 2.26),
under which the majority of small retail outlets are to be privatized. The
retail sector in both focd and non-food consumer products is characterized by
a large number of relatively small units.  The nt'mber of department stores has
remained at around 200 and the number of supermarkets at around 800.  Trends
in retail outlet reconfiguration have included a move tcwards more
diversification of the product range with an increase in the number of general
purpose retail shops and a reduction in the number o; specialty stores.
Retailers are becoming less dependent on wholesalers, buying directly from
the manufacturers or import companies.
2.09     Retailing of food and non-food  .onsumer products in general suffers
from inefficient facilities, obsolete equipment, limited automated systems,
lack of name brands and logos for stores, and inadequate customer service.
Consumer cooperatives still control over 25 percent of food retailing in the
country. Their hitherto monopolistic rmarket structure has resulted in their
retail outlets being unresponsive to consumers and unaware of the necessary
commercial and technical evolutior. in the retail business. The Federation of
Consumer Cooperatives (AFEOSZ) is undertaking a plan for restructuring of the
consumer cooperatives' store operations with the help of foreign consultants
financed under an earlier Bank project. Actions being pursued by retailers to
improve their operations include: integration of both wholesale and retail
levels, i.e., retail companies to build warehouses; rehabilitation of stores
and shops; opening of discount stores for private customers and cash and carry
stores for retailers; increase in the average size of supermarkets; opening of
a f-^ hypermarkets i.e., very large supermarkets/department stores;
deve±opment of franchising chains; increased application of the bar code
system and, consequently, installation of new check out practices; upgrading
of warehouses; and introduction of computer-based automated systems. The
pioject would support viable investments and permanent working capital
requirements in such areas as well as provide for technical assistance for the
provision of training and advisory services.
C. Logistics Management
2.10      Logistics is of key importance in the process of marketing, trade
and distribution of consumer goods. It covers the process of planning,



-5-
implementing and controlling the efficient, cost-effective handling and flow
of goods to conform to consumer requirements. Effective logistics management
enhances the marketing effort of the firm and the efficien: distribution of
products to consumers.
Inefficiencies in inventory Maragement
2.11     Logistics-related costs are relatively high in Hungary.  Total
expenditures inicurred in managing trade and industry logistics in Hungary
during 1989 were estimated at around 27% of GDP. Comparable figures in North
American or West European economies range between 12 and 15 percent. At the
lavel of the individual enterprise, the comparators are equally
disproportionate. For instance, in the food industries, the typical
proportion of logistics costs in retail prices is estimated at 40 percent,
about one third higher than compar2ble indices in Western counterparts. In
some other segments of the consumer goods market, the situation is often
worse.
2.12      Excess inventories are still maintained at all stages of processing,
which is partially due to a carry-over of the practices developed from the
uncertainties regarding the availability of capital and production inputs
under the old centrally planned management system. Under accounting practices
existing until recently, the costs of such large inventory holdings were not
appropriately reflected in calculating enterprise performance. There are also
uncertainties with respect to timely availability of market information which
induce industry managers to keep buffer stocks as the main hedging device at
their disposal.
2.13     The immediate effects of high logistics costs are unduly inflated
retail prices in the domestic market and limited competitiveness of Hungarian
products in export markets. To overcome these impediments, several actions
will have to be initiated. The initiatives would have to be taken by the
individual enterprise or business group, and the Government would have to
create an environment in which such initiatives can be effectively
implemented.
2.14     The essential requirement is to reduce inventories' at all levels of
commodity processing to levels warranted on grounds of efficient operations,
and this applies to manufacturing as well as trading. This need is further
underscored by volatile market demand and consumer behavior, both in the
international and the domestic markets. West European industries have
responded to these requirements by increasingly adopting 'flexible response'
management strategies which provide for manufacturing and marketing in close
relation with changing market demand.   Hungarian manufacturers as well need
to be responsive to rigorous delivery demands if they are to compete
successfully in international markets. The temptation for the enterprises is
to hedge against uncertainty through inventory build-up. However, this cannot
be a viable long-term option because of the significant costs of carrying
excess inventories.
2.15     To meet this challenge and to increase their ability to serve
markets in line with changing demand and at competitive prices, Hungarian
manufacturers and traders will need to restructure substantially their
business organization. Competition among companies has improved considerably



-6-
over recent years and conditions now appear to be ready for a major effort for
improving logistics management in Hungary. In the first place, enterprises
have to become aware of the undue cost burden of their present logistics
management practices, and as a next step their staff have to be trained so
that expertise can be built up for streamlining logistics provisions. While
training and management restructuring can be expected to induce efficiency
gains, there will also be a considerable need to improve the commonly obsolete
logistics infrastructure. Warehousing, packaging, cargo handling facilities
and transport systems will have to be modernized, and often expanded.
Furthermore, modern electronic communication and control systems Lhve to
installed.
Infrastructure Constraints
2.16      While there have been some advances along these lines, the majority
of Hungarian businesses in the consumer goods sector are still operating
without effective communications links to suppliers, service providers, and
the markets. Thus they have inadequate information about market demand and
supply situations, and are unable to negotiate least-cost supplies or to fix
competitive sales prices. As important, their ability to procure efficient
transport and warehousing services from third parties is constrained.
2.17      Major cost reductions and productivity gains in logistics management
have been secured within West European industries by shedding activities which
are not core to a particular business, and to contract with third party
providers to manage and operate transport, warehousing, and other value-adding
services. In this context, there has been a remarkable trend within the
Hungarian market since 1990. The regulatory framework that governed the
organization of the service industries in Hungary has been substantially
relaxed. As a result, there has been a rapid expansion of the number of firms
in this sector offering innovativeness in services that they are providing in
competition with each other. This applies to insurance, leasing, warehousing,
freight forwarding and road transport. In general, however, there are
investment a_,d working capital constraints in all segments of the service
industries which curtail their ability to respond to user requirements
effectively. This lack of capital is partly because the commercial banks are
generally not yet comfortable in medium- to long-term lending to service
industries as opposed to producers of goods and equipment.
Training and Advisory Services
2.18      There is an urgent need to update the knowledge of managers and
staff involved in manufacturing and trading processes in Hungary as regards
modern technologies, management concepts, and organizational arrangements that
have permitted major productivity improvements and enhanced competitive
performance in Western countries. W'hile a variety of training and interest
groups have emerged iL the field of logistics management, there is as yet
inadequate coordination among their activities. Also, existing training and
business advisory services are largely concentrated in Budapest and not
sufficiently adapted to the needs and specific requirements of different
branches of industry and trade. There is, therefore, a pressing need for
organizing the promotion, enhancement and better coordination in the area of
logistics-related training and advisory services.



-7-
Issues
2.19      In summary, issues that need to be addressed to improve logistics
management are (a) lack of telecommunication infrastructure to permit the use
of high speed data processing equipment; (b) lack of awareness of technologies
being introduced in Western Europe regarding trade procedures simplification
and logistics management; (c) the inadequate coordination among public
entities in the area of electronic data interchange; and (d) the need to
enhance, and to coordinate better, training and advisory services to
enterprises in logistics management. These are being addressed under actions
intended to be taken by the Government and concerned private sector agencies
(para. 2.42) to strengthen the enabling environment for product market
development.
D. Institutional Setting
2.20      Public sector institutions with irmiportant roles to play in improving
the enabling environment for the product market in order to permit a more
efficient allocation of resources are the following Ministries: (i) Ministry
of Industry and Trade (MIT): Responsible for domestic industrial and trade
policy, product safety and quality control of manufacturers and promotion of
technology and business practices which would increase factor productivity in
all branches of industry; (ii) Ministry of Agriculture (MA): Responsible for
production support, i.e., research, extension and agricultural education,
plant protection, animal health, supervision of wholesale and farmers markets,
and laboratory testing of food and drugs for the export as well as the
domestic market; (iii) Ministry of Transportation. Telecommunications and
Water Management (MTTWM):  Responsible for construction and maintenance of the
physical infrastructure, and regulation of the use of the transportation and
communication network; (iv) Ministry of International Economic Relations
(MIER): Responsible for formulating foreign trade policy and administration
of the import/export trade regime, and in charge of measures for
simplification of trade procedures and electronic data interchange;
(v) Ministry of Finance (MF): Responsible for financial, monetary policy and
budgetary matters of the Government; it is also responsible for preparing the
regulatory legislation for the Stock and Commodity Exchanges; and
(vi) Ministry of Justice (MJ): Responsible for preparing, and coordinating
legislation and regulations; inter alia, it is responsible for coordinating
the review of the civil and commercial codes.
2.21      Other key Government agencies with major roles in the product market
area include the Hungarian Office for Standardization (HOS) and the National
Committee for Technology Development (OFMB), both of which play central roles
in the product standardization, quality awareness and accreditation process in
conjunction with the concerned sectoral ministries and representative producer
associations (Annex 2).
2.22      State universities are beginning to provide an organized curricula
in business management, logistics and marketing with assistance from a variety
of European and North American institutions. Vocatiori1 schools are usually
associated with the ministries and research and trainitlg institutions, which
are financed by the State budget. Activities of the latter institutes are
currently in transformation and being privatized with the view that they
should be self-financing.



-8-
2.23       In the private sector, companies, cooperatives and family
businesses are the dynamic element of market formation and improvement in
Hungary   They are organizing themselves in the form of Chambers of Commerce
and Trade, Industry and Professional Associations, which seek to set
commercial strategies, provide information on markets and technology, and
represent the membership interests vis-a-vis the Government. Supportive to
these producer and trade associations, company representatives are also
initiating specialized associations to achieve important commercial activities
which require cooperation of the indi-idual members of an industry group.
These associations have a wide range and currently include, among others,
logistics management, marketing, and franchising. Small and medium sized
enterprises are organizing in a variety of associations, groups, loose bonds
and other types of organizations and are being supported inter alia, by the
Hungarian Foundation, a development program financed by the PHARE. The
Foundation has established six field offices in the poorest counties in order
to provide entrepreneurs with business services and start-up capital and
expects to expand it to most of the remaining countries.
2.24      The main private sector associations under the project are the
National Traders' Association, representing the wholesale, retail and foreign
trade companies; the Hungarian Logistics Association, the Hungarian
Asscciation of Logistics, Purchasing and Inventory Management, and the
Institute of Transportation Research (associated with MTTWM), the principal
organizations involved in logistics-related training and advisory services;
the Hungarian Marketing Association, offering services in marketing and
distribution; and the International Training Center for Bankers (ITCB) that is
responsible for organizing the provision of training to bank staff and
management. The project would support the activities of these entities
through technical assistance that would help establish appropriate
arrangements for organizing the provision of a broad range of training and
advisory services in areas of special importance for project implementation
(paras. 4.24 to 4.25).
E. The Enabling Environment
Overall Framework
2.25      Under the Government's recent and ongoing economic reform program,
supported by two IMF Stand-By Agreements, two Bank Structural Adjustment Loans
(SALs), an Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL), and the recent FY92
Enterprise Reform Loan (ERL), remarkable progress has been made in the overall
macroeconomic, legislative and institutional framework as impacts the project.
In the area of trade reform, constant progress has been made over the last few
years in liberalization of both domestic and external trade. Since 1987, the
then prevailing strict controls on trading rights have been liberalized. Every
company, organization and individual now has the right to engage in trading
activities, which has sparked a striking increase of trading activity and
created competition. Although the traditional foreign trade organizations
still dominate foreign trade, their market share is shrinking. The program
has also liberalized 92% of total imports. However, some products, including
the majority of food items still require import licensing; this includes
products subject tc international agreements and multilateral negotiations
like textiles, steel and some agricultural products. A global quota on import



-9-
of consumer goods (equivalent to US$750 million in 1992) is still in effect.
Globally, in 1992, about 77 percent of industrial production was not subject
to import licensing. Price reform is also well advanced. At the end of 1991,
almost 90 percent of consumer and producer prices were free of Government
control.  Price controls remain in effect mostly for public utilities, wheat
and milk.
2.26      Furthermore, important parts of the institutional and legal
infrastructure for the functioning of markets have already been put into
place, including a coherent tax system and a two-tier banking system. The
legislative and institutional environment for private sector development is
now well advanced, consisting in a set of laws recently passed by the
Parliament, among which are: (a) a Company Law; (b) a Law on Accounting;
(c) a Bankruptcy Law; and, (d) a Competition Law (Law Prohibiting Unfair
Market Practices), as well as a CoTi,petition Office to monitor compliance with
the law. The Government is pursuing an ambitious enterDrise reform program,
supported, inter alia, by the Bank's ERL (Loan 3459-HU). Privatization,
pursued on a multi-track approach, is to be accelerated to reduce the share of
SEs in the competitive part of the economy to less than 50 percent by end
1994. The multi-track approach includes the privatization of small business
units (typically in the retail sector) under the 1990 Retail Privatization
Law. The program was launched in December 1990. The current target is to
privatize about 6,000 retail outlets over 3 years and a further 3,000 within 6
years. As of mid-October 1991, 1,385 auctions had been held and 855 units had
been sold for a total amount of Ft. 3.6 billion (US$36 million equivalent).
The recent passage of the Cooperative and Transformation Laws in early 1992 is
expected to accelerate the privatization of the cooperative sector through the
reorganization, by end-1992, of cooperatives to forms that are based on a
clear definition of property rights.
2.27      Macroeconomic indicators look favorable for Hungary in the medium
term notwithstanding the cumulative adverse effects of external shocks such as
the collapse of the CMEA market, the Gulf crisis and the 1990 drought of
unprecedented proportions for Hungary. Hungary's balance of payments
situation has been strengthened in respect of both the current account,
reflecting in large part a successful re-orientation of exports from former
CMEA markets to Western markets, and the capital account, reflecting the
striking demonstration of foreign investors' confidence which led to an
impressive growth in direct foreign investment to a level of nearly US$1.5
billion in 1991, about three times the previous year's inflow. Inflation was
reduced to about 16 percent on an annual basis in the second half of 1991
after an initial surge at the beginning year that reflected mainly the effect
of relative price adjustments, including subsidy reductions and administered
price increases.
2.28      These striking achievements at the overall macroeconomic,
institutional and legislative levels now need to be complemented by actions
more specifically geared to addressing issues identified earlier in this
section which constrain the effective development of product markets. Under
the former centrally planned economic regime, little attention was paid to
marketing, wholesaling and retailing. Most transactions were based on market
orders issued by the ministries to state-owned or cooperative entities, at
regulated prices and for planned quantities. Under the new liberalized
conditions, sellers and buyers are free to negotiate the best conditions for



- 10 -
the products they buy or sell, but they are constrained because traditional
marketing channels have been largely dismantled and have not as yet been
systematically replaced by organized commercial conduits. Actions which are
now needed to strengthen the enabling environment for the product market area
fall in the following areas: (i) strengthening of market information systems,
market development mechanisms and coordination in marketing channels; (ii)
enhancement of product quality, safety and control, and standardization; (iii)
introduction of relevant commercial legislation to facilitate new trading
arrangements; and (iv) improvement in the provision of medium-to-long-term
credit to the trade and services sector.
Market Information and Market Development
2.29      Market Information.  Wholesale trading between farmers and either
processing, wholesale or export companies is likely -3 be the key element that
will provide operators in the marketing chain with the market signals that are
needed to make appropriate decisions. Such development is needed to improve
allocation of products over the three market dimensions: (i) space, i.e.,
transportation decisions can be made on the basis of price differentials over
space; (ii) time, i.e., for storable products, storage decisions can be made
on the basis of price differentials over time; and, (iii) quality, i.e., when
entities can act on the quality and service attributes associated with a
product in relation to quality premia. The current situation is not conducive
to marketing efficiency as information on prices and quantities is either not
widely available or of insufficient commercial quality, while financial
resources are often limited (Annex 3).
2.30      Limited information is available as yet on major markets in national
newspapers, which is also a reflection of the lack of representative markets.
A market news service has been started recently to provide better market
intelligence on prices. Data are collected daily on wholesale and retail
markets in several cities (e.g., on fruits and vegetables), and from the
purchasing departments of enterprises (e.g., on cereals, livestock), and sent
electronically to a STAGEK (the Statistical Service of the MA) data base, in
the MA, which can be accessed by subscribers, and is published in several
newspapers. Although a positive development, the STAGEK information system
still has a limited commercial value; information is collected by market or
local council employees with inadequate training, for non-standardized
products, on markets which may be less than competitive. A beginning in
addressing these constraints was made under the Integrated Agricultural
Exports Development Project (IAED Project - Loan 3229-HU) under which these
implementation problems are being addressed by a technical assistance program
supported by the PHARE. As the number of representative markets expands and
competition develops, this system can be expected to play an increasingly
significant role to promote efficiency in marketing. However, other important
information is still critically missing in the area of crop and production
forecasting, and supply and demand for major commodities. This will need to
be developed in order to provide market participants with timely public
information to facilitate their marketing decisions.
2.31      Market Development and Risk Management Institutions.  There is
general agreement in Hungary on the need to develop and improve the wholesale
trading system for agricultural and food products. This will have the dual
function of improving pricing efficiency through a confrontation of supply and



- 11 -
demand, and operational efficiency by improving the flow of products and
encouraging specialization related to economies of scale in transportation and
trading. Over the medium term, such markets are conducive to the
standardization of products and the development of intermediaries, thus
freeing the farmer to specialize in agricultural production. Some of these
markets have appeared spontaneously (e.g., Budapest Wholesale Market, Budapest
Flower Market and other farmers' markets), and others are expected to be
created in the near future around some cities and in the main producing areas;
currently, these markets are only dealing in flowers, fruits and vegetables,
but the regional livestock purchasing centers could later develop into genuine
markets. Some issues which have not yet been resolved include: (a) the need
for improvement in the discovery of market prices; the transactions are
currently only based on contracting between individual participants, but the
possibility of creating auctions is being considered by some associations; and
(b) the need to gradually improve the standardization of products traded on
these exchanges.
2.32      The Budapest Commodity Exchange (BCE), which started operating in
1990, has the potential of inaking a significant contribution to the marketing
of grains and livestock in the country. Although the volume of activity is
still limited, this exchange serves a valuable role in price discovery,
creation and dissemination of information, and, generally, in creating
awareness about agricultural marketing. Over the next few years, it could
develop into one of the major institutions in this area and provide farmers,
processors and traders with an efficient way to manage risks associated with
their business operations. As markets and commodity exchanges are created and
expand, the issue of credibility and fairness of transactions becomes
increasingly important. As has been the case with the Stock Exchange, the
legal status of the Commodity Exchanges as well as an appropriate supervisory
framework for its operations need to be established by introducing the
relevant legislation.
2.33      Product Councils.  A characteristic of most agricultural marketing
channels currently in Hungary is the disorganized conditions which prevail,
particularly for meat products, fruits and vegetables. Traditional foreign
markets and domestic channels established during the planned economy era have
disintegrated but have not as yet been replaced by wel'l developed markets such
as auctions, assemoly markets, and wholesale markets. Essential market
informatior is therefore lacking and prevents the efficient allocation of
products over space. The current high costs of transactions result in waste,
loss of quality, lower prices to producers, and higher prices to consumers. A
number of actions are needed to promote the vertical co-ordination of
marketing channels, which can only be achieved through appropriate
collaboration of producers, processors, traders and, sometimes, the
administration, e.g., through Product Councils. These actions include, inter
alia: contracts, standards and grades for products and packaging, private
inspection, dispute arbitration, and the development of efficient marketing
mechanisms such as auctions and electronic markets. This forum does not exist
at present.
2.34      Issues to be addressed to improve market development and the
provision of relevant information are to: (i) expand the scope and improve
the quality of the market information system so as to provide timely and
reliable information on prices, volumes and qualities to producers,



- 12 -
processors, brokers, shippers, traders, wholesalers and retailers; (ii) define
the appropriate legislation and supervisory framework for the operation of
commodity exchanges; and (iii) establish product councils to integrate, and to
coordinate better, marketing channels in selected products. The Government's
actions to address these are indicated in para. 2.42.
Product Safety. Quality Control and Standardization
2.35      Product Safety and Quality Control.  The food quality and safety
control program in Hungary is the shared responsibility of three ministries
(Agriculture, Industry and Trade, and Health and Welfare). Although it has, by
and large, been effective in ensuring food safety and quality control in the
country, the existing system still reflects the structure of a state-
controlled system, and does not adequately meet the needs of an increasingly
privatized and decentralized market economy, nor does it conform as yet with
EC standards. The 1976 Act on Foods, which provides the legal framework for
that program, needs to be adapted accordingly. The institutional setting
itself needs to be clarified and streamlined, as multiple agencies at the
local and central level tend to have overlapping and sometimes contradictory
functions in food safety and quality control, while some areas, e.g., import
and export control, need to be strengthened (Annex 4). Finally, cost
effectiveness will require a shift from the current approach, based on sample
collection and analysis, to one based on inspection activities; constraints to
the development of the private sector in this area need to be eliminated.
2.36      Standardization. Quality Assurance and Accreditation.  The current
technical mandatory standards in Hungary were conceived for CMEA markets and
will have to be reviewed for simplification, as they have imposed a
significant burden on Goverr.ilent resources for little justifiable cause, and
acted as barriers to innovaLion, product and process development. These
mandatory standards need to be replaced by a set of Government regulations and
voluntary standards, which would be prepared by technical committees staffed
with representatives of the business community. Hungary's recent Association
Agreement with the EC provides for the harmonization of legislation, which
underlines the need for Hungary to set-up an appropriate legal and
organizational framework to act expeditiously in this area, and thereby to
support the competitiveness of domestic products. The overall reform of the
product quality and standardization system would have a direct bearing on
product market development as it would: (i) improve consumer protection; (ii)
promote fairness in trade; (iii) lower transaction costs; and, (iv) facilitate
the access of Hungarian products to EC and EFTA markets.
2.37      Issues to be addressed in the above areas are to (i) develop the
appropriate set of legislation, and to clarify and strengthen the
institutional setting of the product and food safety and quality control
system to protect consumers' health and safety; and (ii) provide the legal
framework for a market-oriented standardization/accreditation policy. Actions
by the Government to address these are indicated in para. 2.42.
Commercial Legislation
2.38      The transformation of the marketing, trade and distribution system
involves new types of business practices experience with which is limited in
Hungary at present. New business practices such as factoring, franchising and



- 13 -
financial leasing require adequate legal acceptance since there is as yet no
body of law established by court decisions to provide the guidance in the
interpretation of such new types of contracts. The judiciary system is under
stress because of the increased workload deriving from an increase in its
jurisdictional responsibilities and an increase in commercial activity.
2.39      Actions being pursued by the Government include initiation of
preparation of legislative proposals for the introduction of legislation
regulating financial leasing and factoring with the assistance of UNIDROIT and
preparation of a new law on arbitration for presentation to Parliament.
Furthermore, recognizing that considerable uncertainty exists at present as to
what regulations apply in the field of domestic trade regulation, the
Government is carrying out an audit of regulations applicable to domestic
trade with the objective of eliminating unjustifiably restrictive regulations.
Availability of Term Finance
2.40      Commercial banks' medium- to long-term lending to the private sector
has been considerably restricted because of inadequacy of term deposits.
Uncertainty and relatively high inflation have further affected the banks'
medium- and long-term lending. It would be expected that in a situation of
relatively limited long-term resources, the banks would give preference to
activities with less perceived risk. The banks have consequently tended to
finance the investment financing needs of manufacturing enterprises but have
not responded adequately to those of the trade, distribution and service
sectors due to their relative lack of familiarity with the evolving needs, as
well as with methods of evaluation of such projects, particularly those
incorporating automation of operations. Consequently, the banks' lending to
the trade and distribution sectors has been limited largely to short-term
working capital financing which is rolled-over in some cases at the discretion
of the banks. This is not adequate for financing the changing structural
needs of such enterprises, particularly as they begin to undertake major
modernization and upgrading improvements.
2.41      An issue that needs to be addressed is that bank management and
staff need to become more familiar with the investment financing needs of the
marketing, trade and distribution sectors. Actions to address this are
indicated under the Private Sector Action Program in support of the enabling
environment (para. 2.42).
Action Programs to Strengthen the Enabling Environment
2.42      During project preparation and appraisal, the concerned ministries
(para. 2.20) confirmed the importance they attach to addressing the issues
identified earlier. The concerned private sector associations (para. 2.24)
also indicated their support for the objectives to be achieved. The actions
they intend to undertake above are embodied in Public Sector and Private
Sector Action Programs (Annex 5) that have been discussed with high-level
officials of the concerned ministries, and with representatives of the
concerned private sector associations, and are summarized below:
(i) Market Development and Information Systems. The Government would
undertake the preparation of a plan, with appropriate technical
assistance, for the development of the information system to



- 14 -
provide the public with better information on supply/demand for
major commodities in the country and on crop forecasting. The
Government would decide on the definition of an appropriate
legislative framework and supervisory authority for the Commodity
Exchange, and present thereafter to Parliament a draft Law on
Commodity Exchanges. The Government would also promote the
creation of product councils for selected products to strengthen
marketing channels for these products.
(ii)  Product Safety and Quality Control.  The Government intends to
present to Parliament draft Laws on Product Liability and Consumer
Protection; an amended Food Law; and draft laws on Animal Health
and Plant Protection. In addition, the Government also intends to
issue an inter-ministerial decree on food safety and quality
control, start publishing the Hungarian Codex Alimentarius, and
implement a plan for the reform of the quality control and
inspection system.
(iii) Product Standardization: The Government intends to present to
Parliament a draft Law on Standards and Accreditation and to
clarify the institutional distribution of responsibilities
concerning standardization. It would also ensure preparation of a
technical assistance program to strengthen the capabilities of the
HOS to harmonize standards in line with EC requirements, to
support implementation of quality assurance systems, and to
disseminate information regarding standards and quality.
(iv)  Infrastructure Constraints:  The Government would pursue a program
for participation of the private sector in improving
telecommunications, and carry out other actions to improve the
functioning of the sector as agreed under Bank operations in the
telecommunications sector.
(v)  Trade Procedures Simplification.  The Government would complete
the transition to the Combined Harmonized Nomenclature; approve
application of the EC standard for customs documentation; ensure
harmonization of the Documents of Origin with EC requirements; and
prepare a plan for establishment of a national computer network
link for customs offices.
(vi)  Commercial Legislation.  The Government would finalize the
legislative proposals to incorporate factoring, financial leasing
and franchising into the Civil Code; present to Parliament a new
draft Law on Arbitration; and complete the carrying out of the
audit of regulations applicable to domestic trade with a view to
elimination of unjustifiably restrictive regulations.
(vii)  Logistics Management:  The private sector associations involved in
the area of logistics (para. 2.24) would participate in the
establishment an appropriate organization to promote, enhance and
coordinate better the provision of a broad range of logistics-
related training and advisory services to enterprises, and in the
implementation of a program for this purpose.



- 15
(viii)  Bankers' Training.  The International Center for Bankers'
Training, in conjunction with commercial banks, would make
arrangements for the appropriate training of commercial bank staff
in evaluation and supervision of projects in marketing, trade and
distribution with an emphasis on logistics-related investments.
2.43      Items (i) to (vi) above fall within the Public Sector Action Program
to be carried out primarily by the concerned government ministries and public
agencies, and items (vii) and (viii) within Private Sector Action Program,
involving the participation of the concerned private sector agencies,
supported by the Government. Implementation arrangements for the Programs are
discussed in paras. 4.17 to 4.23.
F. Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.44      The proposed project is the first Bank operation directly in support
of the marketing, trade and distribution sector in Hungary. Earlier Bank
operations in both the agricultural and industrial sectors were primarily in
support of production activities although selected aspects of the marketing,
trade and distribution sectors were supported under some of the projects.  In
the agricultural sector, Bank loans have been in support of grains storage for
upgrading and modernizing grain storage facilities; livestock industry for
improvement of production efficiency and increasing convertible currency
foreign exchange earnings; crop production improvement through utilization of
more efficient farm machinery, improved practices in land management, and
support for research and extension services; agro-processing modernization for
improving quality, increasing productivity, increasing export earnings, and
enhancing the management and marketing skills of agroprocessing enterprises;
and integrated agricultural exports development which aimed at increasing
export earnings through improved agricultural operations, including support
for policy initiatives to further privatization of farm assets, and price and
trade liberalization. An important beginning was made under the Integrated
Agricultural Exports Development Project (Loan 3229-HU) in initiating the
introduction of training programs in agricultural and food marketing,
selective improvements in the market information system, support for the
establishment of the Commodity Exchange, and training to private small-scale
farmers. The proposed project provides further support for selected
activities launched under the IAED project. Bank projects in the industrial
sector have been in support of energy conservation; enhancing domestic and
export competitiveness through industrial restructuring, including components
to encourage lending to small business and for employment creation in areas
affected by such restructuring; technology development; and an Industrial
Sector Adjustment Loan in support of deepening the sector-related reforms
supported through the Bank's earlier Structural Adjustment Loan.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.45      Bank strategy in Hungary focuses on creating growth through economic
change and more efficient use of resources. In the 1980s, the Bank's strategy
focu.sed on encouraging and supporting the phased economic reforms then being
unde.- aken in Hungary through industrial restructuring loans and a FY88
Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan in support of institutional and policy
reform, and restructuring at the enterprise and subsector levels, and



- 16 -
investment loans in support of operations in the agriculture, energy,
telecommunications and transport sectors. With the coming into power in 1990
of a democratically elected Governmnnt, the Bank's assistance entered a new
phase. In support of the Government's objective of radical transformation to
a predominantly private, market economy, the Bank approved two Structural
Adjustment Loans focussing on measures to improve competition in domestic
markets, a final round of trade liberalization, and reform of social programs,
and a FY92 Enterprise Reform Loan that supports a fundamental reform of the
enterprise sector. Following this loan, Bank operations will increasingly
emphasize investment financing to deepen the implementation of structural
reforms and promote efficient development within a market economy. In line
with this strategy, the proposed project aims at enhancing the competitiveness
of Hungarian consumer goods in domestic and export markets by its support for
strengthening the enabling environment relevant to such product markets and by
the provision of finance to enterprises for strengthening their marketing,
trade and distribution activities, complementary to the financing provided
under the Bank's existing credit lines for agriculture and industry that are
primarily in support of production and manufacturing activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives. Concept and Design
3.01      The overall objective of the project is to strengthen the
operational and pricing efficiency of product markets and, thereby, to improve
the business environment so that producers and trading companies would be able
to adjust efficiently to changing market conditions. Within such a broadly
defined framework, the specific project objectives are to: (a) reduce costs in
the overall logistics system (i.e., packaging, transport, handling, storage,
and management of general consumer goods) and to pass, in part, these savings
to consumers in the form of lower cost; (b) add value to products in terms of
improved services; (c) enhance the competitiveness of Hungarian products in
domestic and in foreign markets; and (d) assist commercial banks to add
financing of investment in this new field to their portfolios.
3.02      Project objectives are to be achieved through the provision of
technical and financial assistance to a broad range of enterprises with
marketing, distribution and trade activities to stimulate the establishment of
efficient new operations or to enhance the efficiency of existing operations
in these areas. To encourage the enterprises to undertake the necessary
investments and to strengthen prospects for sustainability, the main concerned
public and private sector representative agencies intend to undertake actions
that would create the necessary enabling environment including, inter alia,
enhancement of market information systems, product standardization and quality
control, removal of main infrastructural impediments, and improvements in key
commercial regulations. This was confirmed at negotiations. Technical
assistance is provided under the project to the concerned agencies to support
their respective action programs.
3.03      The project is based on a line of credit to eligible beneficiaries
through qualified commercial banks. Credit is limited to beneficiaries with
activities in marketing, trade and distribution because of their needs for



- 17 -
investment, particularly medium- to long-term capital. Availability of such
long-term resources is expected to act as a catalyst for improving the
efficiency of the sector. Commercial banks have hitherto tended to focus more
on meeting the investment financing needs of enterprises with manufacturing
activities but have not responded adequately to the investment financing needs
of the trade and distribution sectors due to the banks' relative lack of
sufficient familiarity with the evolving needs, and methods of their
evaluation, as concerns these sectors. The project, therefore, includes
actions to strengthen the capability of the commercial banks involved by
improving their capability to cater to the demand for medium- to long-term
credit from this relatively new clientele.
3.04        Segmentation of the credit system would be kept to a minimum by
making it available to a broad range of beneficiaries, provided they meet the
required eligibility criteria. Onlending interest rates from the
participating banks are determined with due consideration of the financial and
operating costs of the banks, the rate o- Inflation and the foreign exchange
risk, and would be positive in real terms.
B. Project Description
3.05      Actions which the Government and the concerned piivate sector
agencies intend to take respectively under the Public Sector and Private
Sector Action Programs to strengthen the enabling environment were discussed
earlier (para. 2.42). Within this framework the project would address current
constraints which impede the development of improved product markets and flow
of goods. In this respect, the project consists of two components:
(i) Financial assistance through eligible participating banks to a
broad range of investors to undertake a variety of activities to
strengthen their logistics-related operations in the areas of
marketing, trade and distribution of consumer goods; and
(ii) Technical assistance in support of the public and private sector
agencies involved in carrying out the Public and Private Sector
Action Programs.
3.06      Financial assistance would be a line of credit of US$99.2 million
through NBH to qualified commercial banks for onlending to eligible entities
in the sector for the establishment of new, or for enhancing the efficiency of
existing, operations involving marketing, trade and distribution of consumer
products, These ultimate beneficiaries of the project would include
enterprises, firms, cooperatives and other entrepreneurs engaged in the
production and distribution of final consumer goods and their components at
intermediate stages of production such as producers of raw materials,
manufacturing, agroprocessing and distribution companies, franchisees,
trucking firms, private entrepreneurs including, among others, marketers,
brokers and distributors, consultant companies working in the trading sector,
dealerships trading in intermediate products and other firms supporting
logistics management and distribution of consumer goods. Subloans are
expected to average about US$500,000, and would finance investment, permanent
working capital, and consultant services needs of the beneficiaries.
Investment financing would cover machinery and equipment, spare parts,



- 18 -
co.?uter hardware and software; and civil works including construction of
buildings and structures, or purchase of construction materials, for markets,
wholesale operations and reta'l sales. Complementarity with existing Bank
credit lines would be achieved since manufacturing machinery and equipment
would be financed by ongoing Bank-.inanced loans as the participating
commercial banks could draw on these operations in formulating a subloan to
those clients who may want to invest in production equipment well. Permanent
working capital is expected to include the build up of inventories to levels
required for efficient operations. The financing of consultant services would
meet the subproject related advisory needs of the beneficiaries.
3.07     Technical assistanct to be provided under the projec.c includes
(i) support for the establishment of an appropriate organization to be
responsible for promotion, enhancement, and encouraging better coordination in
the provision of training and advisory services in a broad range of logistics-
related areas; (ii) establishment of a program for provision of training to
commercial bank manai.'ment and staff in evaluation and supervision of projects
in the marketing, traCe and distribution areas with particular reference to
logistics management; (iii) improvement in the market information system; (iv)
definition and making operational standards and grades for products; (v)
arrangements for the supervision of commodity exchanges; and (vi)
strengthening the food safety quality control system. Total estimated costs
are about US$4.3 million equivalent. Details of the proposed technical
assistance are provided in paras. 4.24 to 4.29 below.
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan
Estimated Cost
3.08     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$254.5 million
(Ft.19.0 billion equivalent), of which US$102.5 million (40 percent) would be
foreign exchange, as shown in Table 1. The cost estimate is based on a credit
survey carried out by the banks to ascertain demand for credit from their
clients.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local    Foreign    Total
X of Foreign  X of Total
------- (US$ million) -------    Exchange Cost   Cost
Subproject Credit
Component        151.0      99.2      2 .2        97X      98X
Technical Assistance
and Training      1.2        3.1       4.3        3X        2X
TOTAL   152.2     102.3      254.5      100X     100X
Financing Plan
3.09     A Bank loan of US$100 million is proposed; it would cover 39 percent
of total project cost which would be equivalent to 98% of the estimated
foreign exchange component. The Bank loan would not finance taxes and duties.



- 19 -
As shown in Table 2, additional finan'.ing required for project implementation
would be provided by: (a) NBH and the participating banks (US$100 million or
39 percent of project cost); (b) ultimate beneficiaries in the form of equity
contributions (US$51 million or about 20 percent of project cost); the
Government (US$1 million or 0.5% of project cost); and (c) donor agencies
(US$2.5 million or 1 percent of project cost). Tha Government continues to
seek donor financing for the entire amount required for the technical
assistance and training, estimated at around US$4.3 million equivalent.
Prospects for donor financing appear good as a number of potential donor
sources have expressed initial interest. Howe er, in view of their importance
for project implementation, the Government will undertake the financing of two
of the technical assistance components, namely, those for the organization of
training and advisory services for logistics management, and for the
establishment of a program for training of bank staff, escimated to cost about
US$1.8 million, should donor financing not be forthcoming in time and in the
required amounts. A provision of US$0.8 million has been made under the
proposed loan to finance eligible expenditures in this regard.   Arrangements
for financing of these key technical assistance components were confirmed at
negotiations. In the event that the requisite donor financing becomes
available, the amount under the Bank loan would be reallocated to the credit
line component.
Table 2: SOURCES OF FINANCING
(US$ million)
NBH/
Conir :cial    Project                Donor
Banks   Beneficiaries  IBRD  Government  Agencies  TOTAL
Subproject Credit
Component         100.0       51.0     99.2     -        -    250.2
Technical Assist-
ance and Training   -          -       0.8    1.0       2.5    4.3
TOTAL             100.0       51.0     100    1.0       2.5   254.5
Percent
Distribution      39.2        20.0     3S.2    0.5      1.0   100.0
D.  Procurement
3.10     International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would apply for all
contracts with a value greater than US$1 million.  Hungarian enterprises which
compete under ICB for goods will be eligible for a 15% preference on the CIF
value of the bids, or the amount of customs duties and taxes, whichever is
lower.  In the case of civil works, contracts with a value between US$500,000
to US$1 million would be procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) to be
acceptable to the Bank. Civil works contracts below US$500,000 would be
procured under the prevailing local practices which involve the obtaining of
quotations from at least three eligible contractors. In the case of goods,
contracts of a value of less than US$1 million would be procure' under normal
commercial practices of the financial intermediaries and ultimate
beneficiaries to be acceptable to the Bank. Hungarian enterprises have been
increasingly exposed to a market environment to a much greater extent than
their counterparts in other countries in the region, and the privatization



- 20 -
process has accelerated, the Government's efforts at enterprise reform,
privatization and private sector development being supported, inter alia,
under the Bank's Enterprise Reform Loan (Loan No. 3459-HU). Goods and
technical licenses which the Bank agrees are: (a) proprietary; or (b) the
timing of which is critical for efficient project execution; or (c) need to be
compatible with other installed equipment, would be procured through direct
negotiation with the proprietor.
Table 3: PROCUREMENT METHODS a/
(US$ million)
International
Competitive    Other  b/    Total
Bidding
Civil Works                   20.0        60.0       80.0
(10.0)      (20.0)    (30.0)
Goods                         50.0       119.2      169.2
(22.0)     (46.2)     (68.2)
Consultant Services                        5.3        5.3
and Training                   -          (1.8)      (1.8)
Total                  70 .0       184.5      254.5
(32.0)     (68)      (100)
g/ Figures in parentheses refer to the Bank loan.
/ Includes goods and works to be procured according to commercial practices of
the enterprises; Bank-financed consultants' services to be procured under the
applicable Bank guidelines.
3.11        Civil works to be procured under the project would consist of the
construction of buildings and other structures for markets, stores,
warehouses, and the like. Goods to be purchased under the project would
include investment needs such as automated electronic data processing
equipment, bar coding systems, equipment for cold storage and warehouses,
material handling equipment, pick-up trucks, fork-lift trucks, specialized
transportation vehicles, packaging machinery for final products as well as
shipping containers, construction materials, and various consumer goods
required to build up inventories as a part of permanent working capital.
3.12        Consultants' services may be retained for variety of technical
services required by the project beneficiaries in the improvement of their
operations with particular reference to automation of their operations and the
introduction of cost reduction technologies. Consultants' services and
training to be financed under the Bank loan would be subject to the applicable
Bank guidelines. Those technical services and training that are to be
financed through donor grant funds would be procured under the prevailing
guidelines of the concerned individual agency.
3.13        All Bank-financed bid packages estimated to cost over US$2
million, invitations for procurement of consultants' services, and procurement
of technical licenses and training would be subject to the Bank's prior



21 -
review. Agreements on procurement arrangements and procedures were finalized
during negotiations.
E. Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement
3.14        The allocation of the proposed Bank loan of US$100 million is
shown in Table 4
Table 4.   iLLOCATION OF BANK LOAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Category               Amount      . of Expenditures to be Financed
Financing of SubDroJects          99.2
Goods  . .  . . . .  . .  .  . . .  . . .  . .  . . .  . .  1002  of  foreign  expenditures;  1001
of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost); 75X of local expenditures
for other items, including related
services, procured locally; and
1002 of foreign expenditures for
technical licenses;
Works  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   40X;
Consultants'  services  . .  . .  . . .  . . . . . . . 100l ;
Technical Assistance and Training  0.8
Consultants'  services and training  . . . . . . . . 100;
Equipment, including computer
equipment and software   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100l   of foreign expenditures;  1002
of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost); and 751 of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally;
TOTAL                            100.0
For the project components, all disbursement for contracts valued at less that
US$500,000 equivalent would be on the basis on statements of expenditure (SOE)
which detail the individual transactions. Existing arrangements for SOEs at
the commercial banks have been found to be satisfactory in the case of those
banks which are participating under earlier Bank credit-line projects.
Similar procedures would be required in the case of banks that may not have
participated earlier in Bank projects. The documentation to support these
expenditures would be retained by the banks, audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and made available for review by the Bank upon
request. Withdrawal applications against contracts of over US$500,000
equivalent will be fully documented.
3.15        To facilitate the Borrower's access to the loan, NBH will
establish a special account into which the Bank would deposit from time to
time amounts determined with reference to the estimated need for financial
resources. The special account would have an authorized amount of US$6
million which would be adequate to finance reimbursement requests from
participating banks. A record of all contracts financed and a permanent
accounting record of operations financed would be kept by NBH and be available
for review by Bank missions upon request. Payments for the special account
would only be made for eligible expenditures indicated in the Loan Agreement.



- 22 -
An audit report by an independent auditor on the special account would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. Disbursement arrangements were confirmed during
negotiations.
3.16        It is anticipated that the Bank Loan will be completely disbursed
by June 30, 1998 in accordance with the disbursement schedule given in Annex
6. Disbursement experience has been mixed in Hungary due to the unsettled
macroeconomic situation in the country, including the effects of external
shocks such as the Gulf crisis and the collapse of the CMEA market, which
created uncertainty in the business community. Disbursement periods for
industrial sector loans average about five and a half years. The Bank's
agricultural loans to Hungary are generally being disbursed on schedule. The
latest agricultural loan, for the IAED project, is rapidly being committed due
to improved procurement arrangements which respond to development of
commercial practices in the country, new entrepreneurs, less restrictive
lending criteria and improvement in the commercial banking system to service
clients. Given this favorable experience, project disbursement is expected to
be completed over a five and a half year period.
F. Environmental Impact
3.17        All subborrowers would be required to comply with the
environmental protection regulations of the Government.  In appraising
subprojeccs, the PBs will be responsible for ensuring that the subborrowers
have received clearance from the relevant regulatory agencies regarding the
environmental impact of their investments. Subborrowers will thus be required
to submit evidence of clearance from the environmental authorities that
environmental concerns identified would be addressed through the appropriate
measures. Agreements in this regard were confirmed at negotiations.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANCEMENTS
4.01        NBH and the PBs would be responsible for the onlending component
of the project. The Ministry of Industry and Trade would be the coordinator
for the Public Sector Action Program involving the participation of other
ministries and public sector agencies as indicated in para. 4.18 below. In
regard to the Private Sectbr Action Program, the logistics-related component
of the Program would be implemented by the concerned Working Group of the
agencies involved in the component, and the component for training of bank
staff by the ITCB in conjunction with the concerned participating banks (para.
4.19 to 4.21).
A. Lending Arrangements
4.02        The proposed loan would be made to NBH for a period of 15 years,
including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
NBH would onlend the major part (US$99.2 million) of the funds to eligible PBs
which, in turn, would onlend the funds to eligible beneficiaries. To
determine allocations of the Bank loan among the PBs, NBH will use a bidding
procedure by which individual banks would bid for shares of the Bank loan.



- 23 -
Each bank would pay commitment fees on its allocated share of the Bank loan.
The procedure was successfully utilized under the IAED Project (Loan No.
3229).
4.03        NBH would onlend the balance of the funds (US$0.8 million) to the
Government under a subsidiary loan agreement in case financing for the key
technical assistance (para. 3.09) is sought to be met from the Bank loan as
would occur if the requisite donor financing is not forthcoming in time and in
the required amounts. The Governrnent would, in turn, channel these funds as
grants.
4.04        NBH will be responsible for onlending the Bank loan proceeds and
monitoring the use of these funds. NBH would: (a) collect onlending
information from all participating banks on a regular basis: (b) review the
operations of commercial banks and, in general, review selected subloan
appraisals; and (c) review and advise in the preparation of procurement
documents.
4.05        The PBs would be responsible for approving subloans and assuming
the risk of the subloans, based on subloan applications from applicants, which
for subloans over a specified amount (para. 4.12) would include: (a) a
business plan; (b) an investment feasibility study; and (c) a statement of
creditworthiness. The PBs will: (a) identify investment subprojects; (b)
appraise investment subprojects; (c) administer their subloans; (d) supervise
subproject performance; and (e) submit periodic reports on subproject
performance to NBH.
4.06        A number of legal agreements, of a form and content satisfactory
to the Bank, will be required to set out the respective obligations of the
various entities. Formal loan documents associated with the proposed Bank
loan include a Loan Agreement between the Bank and NBH, and a Guarantee
Agreement between the Bank and the Government. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement
would be required between NBH and the Government if proceeds of the Bank loan
are to be utilized to finance technical assistance. Conclusion of Subsidiary
Financing Agreements between NBH and the PBs will be a condition of
participation of these institutions in the project. Finally, Subloan
Agreements will be required between the PBs and the ultimate beneficiaries.
These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
B. Onlending by NBH
4.07        NBH, the Borrower, will onlend the Bank loan proceeds to the PBs
for a maturity not exceeding fifteen years. The signing of subsidiary
financing agreements between NBH and two eligible PBs would be a condition for
loan effectiveness. NBH would bear the risk of foreign exchange, for which it
is covered by a variable spread (currently about 14 percent) between the Bank
lending rate and its long-term refinancing rate (currently 22 percent) for
funds onlent at maturities of over one year. In connection with the ongoing
Financial Systems Modernization Project (FSMP - Loan 3191-HU), the Government
has agreed that, with a view to achieving positive real onlending interest
rates, the refinancing rates of NBH will be so set as to be sufficient to
cover: (a) NBH's average cost of funds; and (b) the projected differential
between domestic and international inflation rates, and that these principles



- 24 -
would continue to guide the refinancing rate for Bank loans in the future. In
regard to the interest rates charged by the participating commercial banks on
subloans, as agreed under existing credit lines to these banks, these rates
would conform to the principles of: (a) adequate margin to cover the bank's
average cost of funds, administrative costs and provisions for doubtful loans;
and (b) positive rates relative to inflation.  NBH will monitor the compliance
with the mentioned principles through the subsidiary financing agreements; the
relevant data would also be made available to Bank supervision missions. The
Bank would continue to review the adequacy of the onlending mechanisms,
including these principles and rates, in the cantext of its supervision of
ongoing lines of credit as well as through the ongoing Financial Sector Review
and the preparation of the proposed FY93 Second Financial Systems
Modernization Project (FSMP-II).
4.08        In the event donor financing for the key technical assistance
(para. 3.09) is not available in time and in the required amounts, and
proceeds of the Bank loan are utilized for financing of technical assistance,
NBH would onlend the funds to the Government under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement at the same maturities and onlending rates as for its onlending to
the participating banks. In this case, the signing of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
C. Onlending by Participating Banks
Participating Banks
4.09        Any duly constituted Hungarian bank can become eligible for access
to Bank resources under the project provided it meets the appropriate
eligibility criteria. To gualifv as participating intermediaries under the
Droiect. banks must:
(a)   meet the prevailing prudential regulatory criteria, including
minimum capital adequacy, as stipulated by the Banking Law;
(b)   be in good standing with the State Banking Supervision Agency
(SBS);
(c)   have acceptable lending policies and procedures;
(d)   have competent management in an appropriate organization
structure;
(e)   be capable of appraising and supervising projects, engaging such
technical assistance as necessary for the purpose; and
(f)   have undertaken external audits according to international
auditing standards.
4.10        Twelve banks (Hungarian Credit Bank, Commercial and Credit Bank,
Budapest Bank, National Savings Bank, Mezobank, Agrobank, Industrial
Development Bank, General Bank for Venture Financing, Investbank, Postabank,
Iporbank and Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank) have expressed their interest to



- 25 -
bid for a share of the proposed Bank loan (a description of the banking sector
in Hungary is given in Annex 7). All of these are deemed to be eligible to
participate under the proposed project. Any additional banks to be included
under the project would be on the basis of evaluations made by NBH. Such a
situation could arise, e.g., if funds become available by a PB surrendering
its allocation, in part or in whole; the funds could then be allocated to
other banks provided they are found to be eligible. The final decision
concerning whether to include a bank under the project would be subject to
Bank approval. Compliance by the PBs with the conditions included in the
eligibility criteria will be monitored yearly. Agreements in respect of the
above eligibility criteria were confirmed during negotiations.
Onlending Terms and Subloan Criteria
4.11        Participating banks would use the proceeds of the Bank loan to
onlend to their clients over the disbursement period of the project.
Maturities for investment loans and permanent working capital financing will
not exceed ten years, including a maximum grace period of three years. Banks
would be required to pay a commitment fee on the indicated amount of Bank loen
proceeds for which they bid.  As the maturity of the NBH loans to the banks
would be longer than that of their subloans, the participating banks may, at
their option, retain the amounts received by them by way of repayments of
subloans and relend such funds to eligible subborrowers for financing similar
subprojects. The ultimate beneficiaries of the project would be entities that
are related to production and distribution of final consumer goods and their
components at intermediate stages of production such as producers of raw
material, agroprocessors, manufacturers, merchants, traders and brokers, and
related service industries. Types of activities that would be supported by
the subloans would be those aimed at efficiency improvement in the areas of
marketing, trade and distribution, and general logistics management including
(a) packaging; (b) transportation; (c) handling and storage; (d) automated
systems to improve logistics management including inventory control and
warehouse locations; (e) introduction of barcoding and improved checkout
practices; and (f) other activities related to the flow of general consumer
goods. Under this project, consumer goods are defined as goods that are
typically sold in supermarkets, department stores, convenience stores and
hardware stores.
4.12        Participating banks would employ sound financial practices and
evaluation standards in implementing the project. Project beneficiaries with
subloans greater than USS300.000 would be required to satisfy the fo'lowing
criteria:
(a)   the beneficiaries should have a satisfactory financial position as
indicated by a current ratio above 1.3, a debt/equity ratio not
exceeding 65/35, and a debt service coverage above 1.5;
(b)   the beneficiaries would prepare business plans which would
indicate their marketing arrangements, operations and financing
plan;
(c)   subprojects must yield a projected financial rate of return (FRR)
of at least 14 percent; and
(d)   applicants for permanent working capital financing must
demonstrate efficiency improvements (para. 4.16).
4.13         A business plan would include the following elements:
(a) history of the firm and its position in the industry; (b) analysis of the



- 26 -
entity's product lines and marketing strategy; (c) evaluation of its
technological capabilities; (d) current and planned organizational structure,
including plans for privatization; and (e) the firm's management and
information system. Within the context of the business plan, the entities
would also make projections of their financial statements with a view to
demonstrating that they would meet agreed financial performance indicators.
4.14        Subloans below the limit of US$ 300,000 would be evaluated
according to the current procedures of the PBs which were found to be
satisfactory in the case of those banks which are participating under ongoing
Bank credit line projects. Banks participating for the first time would be
required to adopt similarly satisfactory procedures.
4.15        Maximum loan financing to a single beneficiary would be US$10
million. To build up their capabilities in the appraisal and supervision of
the new types of activities to be financed under the project, each
participating bank would have an appropriate number of staff trained under the
special programs to be instituted by the ITCB (para. 4.25). In addition, for
all subprojects involving technical or marketing features for the evaluation
of which a PB lacks the relevant expertise, the PB would have the subproject
appraisal evaluated by external experts. All subprojects involving subloans
of greater than US$5 million would require the Bank's prior approval. The
first two subproject appraisals carried out by banks that have participated in
earlier Bank projects, and the first three in the case of banks that may not
have so participated, would be sent to the Bank for review prior to commitment
of the subloans by each concerned bank. Agreements in respect of these
matters were confirmed during negotiations.
4.16        Given the current shortage in supply of medium- to long-term
financing, many enterprises are forced to use short-term loans in lieu of
longer term financing to satisfy their permanent working capital needs. By
offering medium- to long-term permanent working capital financing, the
proposed loan would allow the sector entities to lengthen the maturities of
their permanent working capital loans and to build up additional long-term
investment resources. This would permit companies to increase the use of
installed capacities and to take advantage of economies of scale. Permanent
working capital would be determined with regard to the levels of inventories
of raw materials, intermediate goods, and finished goods which are required to
maintain operations at efficient levels. The candidate commercial banks have
engaged the services of a qualified consultant to help them review and
determine the appropriate methodology for assessing permanent working capital
needs of their clients in the marketing, trade and distribution areas and this
work Is to be completed by August 31, 1992. Enterprises with existing
operations would have to support their applications for permanent working
capital financing with a demonstration of anticipated efficiency improvements
in their operations arising from either a planned investment, or an investment
undertaken not more than two years prior to the application for such
financing. This was confirmed at negotiations.



- 27 -
D. Implementation Arrangements for Action Programs
to Strengthen Enabling Environment
4.17        The main public sector and private sector agencies Ir.volved in
project implementation were identified earlier (paras. 2.20 and 2.24). Proper
coordination and promotion of specific activities among the public sector
ministries and agencies as well as the private sector and commercial banks
would be required for realization of the development impact of the project.
The matrix of the concerned Action Programs (Annex 5) is expected to serve as
a guide for coordination.
4.18        The Public Sector Action Program reflects that part of the
Government's reform program which directly contributes towards the improvement
of market performance and includes special actions which are important for the
product market development and improved logistics management. Its
implementation will require the active participation and inter-agency
coordination of several Government ministries and agencies including the
Ministries of Industry and Trade; Agriculture; International Economic
Relations; Transportation, Telecommunications and Water Management; Finance;
Justice; the Hungarian Office of Standardization; and the National Committee
for Technology Development. The Government confirmed its intention to
implement the Public Sector Action Program at negotiations.
4.19        In regard to the Private Sector Action Program, the representative
private sector associations that would play a vital role in undertaking the
responsibilities of promoting the project concept and making information on
adaptation of technologies from the western countries on improved logistics
management available to sector entities would be the following: (a) Hungarian
Logistics Association; (b) Hungarian Association of Logistics, Purchasing and
Inventory Management; (c) Hungarian Marketing Association; (d) the Institute
of Transportation Research; and (e) National Traders' Association.
4.20        To coordinate their activities in the field of logistics-related
training and advisory services, the concerned Associations intend to
participate in the establishment of an organization in the form of a Logistics
Promotion Center (LPC). The LPC would undertake to promote, enhance and
encourage better coordination in programs of training and business services
for interested clients in vital areas of logistics management such as cost
accounting, inventory management, least-cost transportation alternatives,
application of automated control and decision systems, and improvement of
marketing and distribution operations. A Working Group has been set up by the
associations, with the support of MIT, to coordinate preparation of the work
to establish the LPC. Technical assistance would be provided to the Working
Group and, upon its establishment, to the LPC to help desigr. and establish the
appropriate organizational arrangements and programs (para. 4.24).
Establishment of appropriate organizational arrangements for training and
advisory services for logistics, to the Bank's satisfaction, is a condition of
loan effectiveness.
4.21        ITCB, in conjunction with participating banks, would be
responsible for establishing a program for the training of commercial bank
staff in the appraisal and supervision of projects in the field of marketing,
trade and distribution with a special emphasis on logistics-related projects
and investments. Technical assistance is provided under the project (para. 4.25).



- 28 -
4.22        Recognizing the difficulties faced by the newly established
associations, most of which are still in a fledgling state, in raising
financial resources, the Government has undertaken to provide the necessary
financing for the two technical assistance components under the Private Sector
Action Program should adequate and timely donor financing not be available for
the purpose. Implementation of the logistics-related component will be the
responsibility of the Working Group established for the purpose, comprised of
representatives of the five private sector associations and the MIT. The
component related to training of bank staff would be implemented by the ITCB
in conjunction with the participating banks. Arrangements in this regard were
confirmed at negotiations.
4.23        To provide the necessary coordination among the different agencies
involved in the project, a Steering Committee, chaired by the Ministry of
Industry and Trade, will be established with suitable representation from the
main concerned agencies to provide high-level guidance and support to the
implementation of the Project (Annex 8). The Steering Committee would have
appropriate level representation from each of the main ministries involved in
the project areas as well as from NBH, commercial banks and the concerned
private sector associations. The Committee will be assisted in the day-to-day
implementation of the Project by a Project Work Unit to be estfblished in the
MIT. Arrangements for the establishment of the Committee and the Work Unit
were confirmed at negotiations. The Government has confirmed its approval of
the establishment of the Committee and the Work Unit.
E. Technical Assistance and Trainine
Training and Business Services in Logistics Management
4.24        To be able to respond effectively to the demands of an
increasingly competitive domestic economy and to improve cost-efficiency to
enhance competitiveness in export markets, management and staff of Hungarian
enterprises engaged in marketing, trade and distribution need to increase
their knowledge and skills with regard to the application of modern
technologies, practices and analytical tools that have permitted major
productivity gains and efficiency improvements in logistic-related activities
in Western countries. Technical assistance would be aimed at supporting the
establishment and implementation of appropriate organizational arrangements to
strengthen (a) awareness creation, (b) relevant training and (c) provision of
advisory services in these areas. Estimated costs are US$1.75 million. A
description of the intended arrangements is given in Annex 9.
Training of Commercial Bank Staff
4.25        While experience with cash-flow based lending has been growing,
commercial banks in Hungary tend to focus on tangible assets to be used as
collateral when approving loans. Investments in the area of trade,
distribution and logistics, however, are typically of a less capital-intensive
nature than most manufacturing activities. Consequently, banks have tended to
restrict their activities in this area of lending. Commercial bank staff
therefore lack the expertise to evaluate and appraise projects dealing with
logistics-related activities in the area of marketing, trade, and
distribution. This training is to be provided through a program to be



- 29
established by the International Training Center for Bankers in Budapest.
Estimated costs for collection and preparation of the course material are
about US$40,000. All variable costs linked to actual training would be borne
by the commercial banks. The program would be initiated by January 1, 1993.
Terms of reference are provided in Annex 10.
Enhancements to the Market Information System
4.26        Technical assistance for this component is directed to addressing
the lack of reliable and accessible information on the level of national and
regional markets regarding supply and demand of the main commodities (e.g.,
production, stocks), as well as elements of crop and livestock production
forecasting (e.g., farmers' intentions, areas planted, animal stocks). The
proposed program would assist STAGEK in (a) delineating the range of
supply/demand and crop forecasting information which would be provided by
public sources; (b) expanding the current information system, by developing a
subsystem dealing specifically with supply/demand monitoring and crop
forecasting, and adapted to the changing production and marketing conditions;
and (c) integrating this subsystem with the existing price information systems
into a comprehensive market news service, to disseminate information pertinent
to food marketing system activities. Estimated costs over a two-year period
for the design and implementation of this program are estimated at about
US$800,000. Terms of reference are provided in Annex 11.
Food Safety and Ouality Control
4.27        Technical assistance for this component would support the
strengthening of the food safety and quality control organizational
arrangements and infrastructure with the aim of designing a cost-effective
system. The proposed initiative would address the following objectives
(a) definition of national objectives and strategies in food control;
(b) consolidation of food control activities, currently carried out by a
multitude of different agencies, in order to avoid unnecessary duplication;
(c) shift from laboratory analyses to inspection control; (d) training at the
levels of management of food programs, inspection procedures, compliance
policy and enforcement implementation; (e) equipment and supplies; and
(f) strengthening of import/export food controls. The program (consultants,
study tours, training, equipment) is estimated to cost about US$800,000.
Terms of reference are provided in Annex 12.
Defining Standards and Regulations
4.28        Technical assistance for this component would be aimed at
strengthening the capacity of the Hungarian Office for Standardization,
through the improvement of its human resources and supporting equipment base,
to (a) efficiently collect information related to its activities;
(b) disseminate that information toward the industrial and service sectors;
and (c) become actively involved in standards harmonization and accreditation.
The various activities supported under this program (consultants, equipment,
training, accelerated harmonization) are estimated to cost about US$470,000.
Terms of reference are provided in Annex 13.



- 30 -
Supervision of Commodity Exchanges
4.29        Technical assistance for this component would be to assist the
Ministry of Finance in (a) the definition of a legal framework for the
operation of commodity exchanges in Hungary; and (b) the establishment of an
independent supervision authority similar to existing institutions in
developed Western economies. The cost of the program (training, study tours,
technical support) is estimated to be about US$350,000. Terra of reference
are provided in Annex 14.
F. Auditing and Reporting Reguirements
4.30        Semi-annual and annual progress reports would be jointly compiled
by NBH on banking matters, by the Project Work Unit in the MIT on public
sector responsibilities, and by the Working Group of the proposed Logistics
Promotion Center on logistics-related training and advisory services.
4.31        The NBH controller's office would set up a project account at the
start of the project and the participating banks would keep a detailed record
of all subloans extended under the project, whether financed with Bank or NBH
funds. The intermediary commercial banks would submit summary sheets for
approved subloans to NBH, indicating: (a) up-to-date project financial
status; (b) the type of subloans financed; and (c) the respective sources of
finance used, such as Bank funds, NBH funds, beneficiary equity contributions
and Government contribution. MIT would provide annual reports to the Bank on
the non-lending aspects of the project.
4.32        NBH would furnish to the Bank, within six months after the end of
each fiscal year, a report of the project accounts, audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. NBH would also retain the annual audited
financial statements of institutional borrowers for Bank staff review during
supervision missions. All project accounts, the revolving funds, statements
of expenditure, and the financial statements of project entities receiving a
subloan greater that US$1 million equivalent will be audited at the end of
each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Short form
annual audit reports for the preceding fiscal year will be sent to the Bank no
later than the end of June each year. The annual financial statements of the
participating banks will also be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank at the end of each fiscal year. Within six months after the closing
date of the Bank loan, NBH and MIT will prepare and furnish to the Bank a
project completion report dealing with the implementation of the project, and
the cost and benefits derived and expected to be derived from the project.
Agreements concerning reporting and auditing requirements were confirmed
during negotiations.
G. Supervision Plan
4.33        A proposed Supervision Plan is attached in Annex 15 with
monitoring indicators in Annex 16. Project supervision would concentrate on:
(a) the onlending activities of the commercial banks to the project
beneficiaries; (b) awareness promotion, training and business services by the



- 31 -
private sector associations; and (c) progress in the Public Sector Action
Program, including utilization of the proposed technical assistance.
Regarding the onlending operations, Bank financial staff will coordinate their
supervision with NBH in reviewing the interest rates charged to subborrowers,
the strengthening of the participating banks in servicing private sector
clients, the quality of subloans, procurement, and disbursement of the Bank
loan proceeds. The supervision of training and technical assistance will
require expertise in marketing, wholesale and retail trade, and in business
logistics in general. Given the innovative nature of the project and the new
areas covered, appropriately staffed Bank missions should supervise the
proj3ct at six-month intervals. Allowance should be made for at least 16
staffweeks per year for the first two years of project implementation and,
thereafter, the manpower requirements can be adjusted according to the need to
solve problems and accelerate project implementation progress.
4.34        Monitoring of project activities will be undertaken by NBH
regarding participating bank operations, by the participating banks regarding
onlending to beneficiaries, by the Project Work Unit regarding the Public
Sector Action Program, and by the Working Group on logistics for the
logistics-related technical assistance and training.
V. ESTIMATED PROJECT RESULTS
A. Financial Analysis
5.01        The financial analysis of the project is based on the analysis of
typical investment cases from the subproject pipei'ne (Annex 17).  Preliminary
analysis of a sample of cases prepared by the candidate participating banks
indicates financial rates of return ranging from 14% to 44% (Annex 18).
B. Benefits and Risks
5.02        Benefits.  The project would contribute to raising operational and
pricing efficiency in marketing, trade and distribution activities in Hungary
through its support for improvements in the relevant enabling environment
including in respect of market information systems; product safety, quality
control, and standardization; and introduction of improved technology and
practices in logistics management. By assisting commercial banks to
strengthen their capabilities for assessing the evolving needs of the business
entities engaged in these activities, the project would improve the access of
these entities to the term finance required by them to carry out viable
efficiency-improving investments. This would enable the entities to realize
significant efficiency gains, particularly in regard to logistics-related
costs, which would increase their competitiveness and profitability. Only
subprojects with a financial rate of return of at least 14% would be financed
under the project. Given the extensive liberalization in the economy, the
economic rates of return of the proposed investments are expected to be at
least 14% as well. This is substantially over the estimated opportunity cost
of capital in Hungary.   Overall, the project would contribute to enhancing
the competitiveness of Hungarian products in domestic and export markets.



- 32 -
5.03        Risks.  The main risk to successful project implementation is that
a deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could impact adversely on the
investment climate and the realization of efficiency gains by the project
beneficiaries. The continued application of sound macroeconomic policies
under agreements with the IMF and the Bank should help reduce macroeconomic
instability and help sustain a conducive environment for project
implementation. There is also a risk that a lack of coordination within the
concerned public and private sector agencies could affect the creation of the
proper environment for enterprises to introduce cost reducing innovations and
business practices.. Arrangements to be made under the prcject would help
provide for better coordination between the public and private sector agencies
concerned, including the carrying out of specific actions to strengthen the
enabling environment relevant to project implementation. Technical assistance
under the project should further help reduce the risk.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01        The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)   the confirmation of financing for key technical assistance
(para. 3.09);
(b)   procurement arrangements and procedures (paras. 3.10 to
3.13);
(c)   disbursement arrangements (paras. 3.14 to 3.16);
(d)   arrangements for ensuring subborrowers comply with
environmental regulations (para. 3.17);
(e)   NBH's onlending arrangements (paras. 4.07 to 4.08);
(f)   the participating conditions for eligible banks (paras. 4.09
to 4.10);
(g)   subloan and subborrower eligibility criteria (paras. 4.11 to
4.16);
(h)   establishment of the Steering Committee and the Project Work
Unit (para. 4.23); and
(i)   auditing requirements and reporting formats and schedule
(paras. 4.30 to 4.32).
6.02        Conditions of effectiveness would include (i) the signing of
subsidiary financing agreements between NBH and at least two eligible
participat4mg banks (para. 4.07); (ii) the signing of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between NBH and the Government in the event that Bank loan proceeds
are to be used to finance the key technical assistance components (para.
4.08), and (iii) the establishment, to the Bank's satisfaction, of
arrangements for the provision of logistics-related training and advisory
services (para. 4.20).



- 33 -
6.03        On the basis of the above-mentioned agreements and the staff
appraisal, the project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$100
million fer 15 years, including five years grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. The loan will be made to the National Bank of Hungary
and guaranteed by the Republic of Hungary.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available In The Proiect File
Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Survey on Wholesale and Retail Businesses in Hungary to Form the Basis of
These Entities' Further DeveloDment, October 1991, two volumes, by the
Uzlet Business Management Ltd.
2. Financial Data on Wholesale and Retail Companies, September 1991, by
Project Preparation Unit, Ministry of Industry and Trade.
3. Initial SteDs in Market Reorientation in Agricultural Exports, April 1991,
by the Agricultural Economic Research Institute (AKI).3.
Organization and Operations of AGKER Ltd, April 1991, staff of AGKER.
4. Status of the Vegetable and Fruit Wholesale Markets, May 1991, by
Marketing Centrum, a Government market research institute.
5. Organization and Operations of AGKER Ltd, April 1991, staff of AGKER.
6. Basic Data on DeveloRment of Agricultural Trade, May 1991, Research Office
of the Trade and Tourism Training Company.



- 35-
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standardization. Ouality Assurance And Accreditation
Background
1.          In the past, the responsibility for standardization in Hungary has
been traditionally divided between the Hungarian Office for Standardization
(HOS) and the technical ministries. By one account, out of 15,000 standards,
10,000 were issued by HOS and 4,600 by the Ministry of Industry and Trade
(MIT). Hungarian standards were largely based on CMEA standards and were
generally mandatory.
2.          The transition to a modern market economy requires a restructuring
of the Hungarian standardization policy and organization, including a shift
toward a system of voluntary standards. Standards are an essential part of
product market development as they enable companies to: (i) rationalize
production by limiting diversity; (ii) optimize purchasing; (iii) coordinate
research and development (R&D); (iv) ensure compatibility of equipment; and,
(v) facilitate access to new markets. Hungary's Association Agreement signed
with the EC will further accelerate the trend toward the harmonization of
Hungarian standards with European standards. Furthermore, the need to compete
effectively in foreign markets will require from Hungarian companies and their
suppliers an immediate and definite im rovement ir. internal control
capabilities, attested by certification of quality assurance systems.
Finally, the accreditation system will certify the quality assurance system of
testing laboratories, and provide for the development of private sector
activities in this area.
Issues and Constraints
3.          In the current state of flux, there appears to be insufficient
coordination regarding a national policy for standardization and
accreditation. The former structure has not yet evolved into a new
organization, able to face the challenge ahead. At present, responsibilities
regarding standardization, certification and quality assurance are shared by
various public organizations, including mainly HOS, varlius ministries, and
the National Committee for Technological Development (OFMB). The HOS, itself
placed under the authority of the President of OFMB, has been affected by its
restructuring (the staff has recently been decreased from 300 persons to about
130), and its resources and equipment are not yet sufficient to fulfill its
new mission in the short-term. The technical ministries have not yet
adequately reformed their own structures, while OFMB has developed its own
activities in the area of quality assurance, in an ad hoc manner, e.g., it has
initiated a number of actions, including the training of lead assessors, and
financing of the certification process for about 20 Hungarian enterprises, to
be completed by May 1992. A lack of clarity remains regarding: (i) the future
organization of the standardization and quality assurance system in Hungary;
(ii) the general policy options it will adopt; (iii) the basis of coordination
between the concerned organizations, the administration and the manufacturing



- 36-                                     ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
and trade sectors; and, (iv) the resources that would be needed to bring about
the changes.
4.          HOS will likely remain the central organization for
standardization in Hungary. In the future, it is expected that only a portion
of HOS's budget will be covered by the state, while the majority of its
funding will have to come from the industry. The industry, however, is itself
in a transitional stage as it must privatize and restructure itself within the
new context of a market economy; long-term strategies (e.g., quality) are
often neglected because of more immediate constraints. The current lack of
support from the industry is further aggravated by the lack of awareness and
understanding about the commercial importance of standardization and the
related aspects of certification, quality assurance and accreditation, and the
active role that the industry is expected to play in this respect in a market
economy. This is partly a legacy of the former centrally planned system,
where standards were more or less mandatory, and the distinction between
regulations and standards was blurred. A pre-requisite for a more active
participation of the industry is, therefore, a better understanding of the
marketing requirements of a global trading economy by managers, and of the
role of standardization and quality assurance in gaining a competitive
advantage.
5.          Hungarian policy in this area will be increasingly shaped by its
relationship with the European Community, and the European Free Trade Area,
now united into a European Economic Area. Over the coming years, it will have
to adapt to the European legislation, i.e., regulations and directives, and
harmonization of standards elaborated through CEN (the Center for European
Normalization) and CENELEC (the Center for European Normalization in
Electrical Goods). However, the debate on the role and scope for
standardization has not been settled yet in the European Community, leaving
much room for different national policies. No unique model prevails at
present in Western Europe, which will compel Hungary to make a strategic
choice with regard to its standardization policy option in the short-term.
6.          It is expected that current issues will be partly clarified by a
series of legislative acts. A new Law on Standards and Accreditation,
currently being drafted, will provide the new framework for standardization
activities. Of equal importance in the food sector will be the complete
reform of the food legislation, following a governmental decision to harmonize
food legislation with the EC within three years. Three laws are currently
under preparation: a Plant Protection Act, an Animal Health Act, and a Food
Act. Food legislation will be specified at three levels: the Food Law itself,
an interministerial executive decree, and the Hungarian Codex Alimentarius,
governing standards and processes to be used in food products.
7.          It can be expected that bringing the Hungarian standardization and
quality assurance system up to the level of its European commercial partners
will require time as it depends closely on the active commitment of the
Hungarian industry. The present structure lacks the necessary resources to
undertake any kind of action for which benefits can only be identified in the
long term. With this background, it is important that, once the legal and
organizational framework is clarified, technical assistance be provided to the
main agencies in this area. A detailed evaluation of the resources and



- 37 -                                    ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
equipment of the HOS should be initiated with the assistance of a qualified
consultant in order to develop an action plan. This should particularly focus
on the need for training of HOS's staff, and the resources and equipment
necessary to develop and maintain an up-to-date information center with
electronic connections to the main international standardization programs
(e.g., ISO, TEC, CEN, CENELEC), and to formulate programs (e.g , conference,
publications, pilot projects) designed to increase awareness in the industry.



- 38                                          _
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market Information Issues
Background
1.          A critical component of product market development in food
marketing is the quality and reliability of the information system. Relevant
public and private information must be available to participants in the food
marketing system, so that they can take appropriate actions (selling, buying,
storing, transporting, sorting, processing) to allocate products efficiently
over quality, time and space.
2.          Under the former centrally-planned economic system, the flow of
products W8S planned and controlled, and prices had only a limited value as
parameters of resource allocation. Information was easy to collect as most
marketing channels were controlled by state monopolies, and there was little
need to disseminate that information as prices were not critical in producers'
and processors' marketing and purchasing decisions, and trading activities
were either forbidden or state-controlled.  Following the liberalization of
domestic and foreign trade, and the emergence of market competition, there is
now an increasing demand and need fir information on agricultural markets.
Yet, following the dismantling of the previous centralized marketing channels
and the development of uncontrolled private trading activities, it has become
notably more difficult to monitor production and trade, and to collect
meaningful and unbiased market information.
3.          The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) has begun to develop its
information system to fill this vacuum. This information system has been
developed through two on-going projects, both financed under the EC PHARE
program: (i) the Market Information Systemi (MIS); and, (ii) the Farm
Accounting System (FAS). Both information systems have been located in
STAGEK, the statistical branch of the Ministry of Agriculture, now recently
merged with the Agricultural Research Institute (AKI).
4.          The MIS is most relevant to product market development. In its
current state, the MIS collects daily price information on wholesale and
retail markets, on the Budapest Commodity Exchange, as well as on processing
and storing enterprises for fresh fruits and vegetables, grains and livestock.
This information is disseminated through a number of channels, including
newspapers and magazines, videotex, computer to computer links.
5.          For fresh fruits anJ vegetables, prices are reported daily for 15
wholesale and retail markets in the Budapest area, as well as a number of
markets in the countryside. The information is collected by employees of the
market or local council, entered into hand-held terminals and transmitted to
the MIS computers via telephone lines. For meat and grain, information is
supplied weekly by large buying and processing organizations which cover about
50 percent of the meat market and the major part of the grain market.
Recently, MIS has also been receiving information from the Budapest Commodity



- 39                                      ANNEX
Page 2 of 3
Exchange where trading is conducted weekly for grains, livestock, meat and
other agricultural products.
Issues and Constraints
6.          Despite its contribution to the development of market information,
the current MIS is still deficient in many respects:
(i)     knowledge of the capabilities of the MIS by potential users is
limited;
(ii)     usage is limited, even by those with a good knowledge of the
system;
(iii)     there is a general perception that market data provided by the MIS
are inaccurate;
(iv)     there are difficulties in communication between local and central
components of the MIS due to a lack of phone lines and/or
computers;
(v)     the information supplied is not detailed enough (e.g., no
varieties or grades); and
(vi)     information is not adequate in regard to regional markets, i.e.
the markets that are relevant for most producers.
7.          Most of these criticisms can be attributed to the deficiencies of
the product market.  Agricultural markets generally lack transparency in
Hungary as there are few organized commodity markets where prices can be
determined efficiently without being unduly influenced by particular buyers or
sellers.
8.          The MIS, initially set up by STAGEK, is currently being
strengthened through technical assistance being provided under the PHARE
program. Emphasis has been placed on: (i) improving the quality of the data
collected and disseminated (e.g., coverage, timeliness, accuracy, access);
and, (ii) improving the performance of the information system (hardware,
software, communications). This assistance should allow the MIS to reinforce
its credibility with the users.
9.          Despite these significant advances and the on-going improvement of
the information system, a significant gap remains, however, in the range of
information needed by producers, traders, processors. This is essentially due
to the lack of reliable and accessible information on the condition of the
national and regional markets regarding supply and demand of the main
commodities (e.g., production, stocks, trade) , as well as elements of crop
and livestock production forecasting (e.g., farmers' intentions, areas
planted, chickens bred, pigs reared, other animal stocks). This results
partly from: (i) the increasing decentralization of production, marketing and
processing activities, which have made the previous system obsolete; and, (ii)
the lack of an effective data collection and communication system between the
local and central levels of the Ministry of Agriculture.



-40 -                                    ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
10.         Such information that would be collected and disseminated under a
program similar, e.g., to the "Market News Service" in the USA, would have
value both for the private sector and for the Administration, which would
improve its ability to monitor market situations. The specific requirements
of the two demands need to be clearly identified, however, as they are likely
to differ in their implications for program implementation. A related issuie
is the responsibility of the Government in terms of data collection and
information, as opposed to private sector efforts in this area. It is clear
that the experience of other countries in this respect should be taken into
consideration, in order to precisely delineate the scope of the GoverDnment's
involvement.
11.         The program would seek to:
(i)     delineate the range of supply/demand and crop forecasting
information which would be provided by public sources;
(ii)     expand the current information system, by developing a sub-system
dealing specifically with supply/demand monitoring and crop
forecasting, and adapted to the changing production and marketing
conditions; and
(iii)     integrate this sub-system with the existing price information
systems into a comprehensive market news service, to disseminate
relevant and timely information pertinent to food marketing system
activities.



- 41 -
Page 1 of 4
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Food Safety And Oualitv Control
Food Safety and Quality Control in Hungary
1.       The food safety and quality control program in Hungary is the shared
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), the Ministry of Health and
Welfare (MHW), and the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT). The MA and MHW
have a central coordination function at the ministry level, and operational
activities at the county level. The MIT has a coordination and operational
function at the central level (Table attached). Each ministry utilizes expert
advisory institutions for the purpose of providing technical review, research
and methods development, laboratory analyses, and professional opinion to the
ministry, the field operational level, and/or state or privately operated
industries. Altogether, the Government directly administers more than 60
field stations and four institutes involved in food safety and quality control
activities.
2.       Legal authority is vested in the 1976 Act on Foods, further modified
in 1988, and a series of executive orders issued by the ministries. These and
other laws are currently under Government and ministerial review for possible
revis. vn to meet the changing emphasis from a state-controlled to a consumer
oriented market economy, and to conform with EC standards.
3.       A recent appraisal of the food safety and quality control system in
Hungary indicated a need for substantial reform of the legislative,
organizational and operational framework. As Hungary has decentralized and
liberalized both import and export trade, specific emphasis needs to be placed
on the monitoring of food trade. Finally, in view of the recent trade
agreements between EC and EFTA countries, as well as the association agreement
signed with the EC, the harmonization of Hungarian regulations with European
regulations and directives should be a central component of this reform. This
reform would have a direct bearing on product market development as it would
improve: (i) consumer protection; (ii) fairness in domestic trade; and, (iii)
access to the European market.
Issues and Constraints
4.       Food legislation.  The current legislation lacks some critical
elements required for effective food safety and quality control: (i) many
definitions need to be updated or clarified; (ii) elements of authority need
clarification, particularly for introduction of new regulations; and,
(iii) elements of penal action need updating and reinforcement.
5.       Strategy.  The current system appears to be operating without the
coherence of a national strategy, resulting in redundancies and lack of cost-
effectiveness. On the other hand, there is no program to deal with specific
food safety and quality control issues, and the system does not adapt readily
to emerging issues which may be identified in the extensive data collection.
Thus,



- 42-                                      ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
(i)   There is need to establish national objectives for food safety and
quality control, clearly delineating the responsibilities of the
Government agencies involved in food control;
(ii)   A new, streamlined system should focus more on inspection
activities as opposed to the current bias towards sample
collection and analysis. This would result in a more cost
effective approach to food safety and quality control; and
(iii)   Administrative and technical control requirements (e.g. pre-
testing, technical standards) need to be reviewed with a view to
simplification as they impose a significant burden on Government
resources while yielding inadequate returns, and act as barriers
to innovation, and product and process development. Existing
standards, conceived for CMEA markets, need to evolve into
regulations and voluntary standards. These should be based on
standards adopted by the EC and the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
6.       Human resources.  The educational and experience of most employees
has been judged to be above average and to constitute a solid basis for
improvement. However, the strong bias in favor of scientific and technical
expertise.at all levels needs to be supplemented substantial management and
administrative training.
7.       Eauipment.  Most of the field stations are well equipped, but the
instruments are generally 10-15 years old. Some new specialized equipment and
replacements will be needed in the coming years.
8.       Import/exgort controls.  The present system for handling imported and
exported products needs to be strengthened as follows:
(i)   The control of food imports emphasizes the pre-licensing testing
of goods to be imported; licenses are then valid for three years.
There is no program, other than occasional sampling performed
under a market surveillance program to monitor the quality of food
actually imported; and
(ii)   An operational food safety and quality control system is in place
to monitor the safety and quality of meat products exported from
Hungary, but it is not available for other exported foods.
Analyses of samples of products intended for export are performed
by the ministries, which deliver certificates, but no qual'ty
control is performed on export products with regard to the
importing requirements of the foreign country.
9.       Ouality control ini the industry.  The attitude of the industrial
sector towards the need for quality aspects is positive, and most major
industries have internal quality control departments and supporting laboratory
services. A major change of emphasis will have to be supported, however, for
the industry to take charge of total quality control, an essential component
of competitiveness in a market economy. By assisting the industry in
developing greater capability and more complete quality control practices, the
Government's responsibility will be reduced from a controlling to an assurance
function.



Food Safety and Oualitv Control
Institutions in iungarv
Centrol Level            Operational        Br                   Staff                                        missions
Level                     (Ministry of Agriculture)
Department ^f Animal                               1                      NA                       Coordination of animal health activities in
Health                                                                                              and outside the minLstry;
oversight responsibilities owar field
stations.
Departcmnt of Quality                              1                      NA                       Coordination of food products safety and
Control                                                                                             quality activities in  nd outside the
ministry;
oversight responsibilities over field
stations.
Animal  ealth              , 700 + full-time meat inspectors         Abattoirs and meat processing facilities
and Food                     300 + part-time meat inspectors         inspection;
Quality Control     20       78 food inspectors                       finished food products analysis and
Field Stations               310 + Lab, analysts and support         processing facilities inspection;
staff                                   laboratory analyses.
Coordination of the food hygiene activities
Central Food Research                              1                     60 t                      of the stations;
Institute                                                                                          food hygiene testing methods development;                          W
reference laboratory;
trainins;
export food investigations
food  quipment review and certification.
Department of EnvirornAnt                                                                          Coordination os plant and soil programs of
and Plant Protection                               1                      NA                       the ministry.
Plant and Soil             approx:                                   Supervision of field trials for pesticides
Protection                   200 + inspectors                        licensing;
Field Stations      20       200 + border inspectors                 inspect samples of plant origin materials at
1000 + lab  employees                   border stations;
? crop inspectors                       analyze raw commodities for pesticide
residues;
certification of exported fruits and
vegetables for safe residue toleranc, level;
control of soil and surface water samples for
agro-chemical enviromant.
Plan. and Soil Protection                                                                          Soil and plant protection research;
Institute                                          1                      50                       central data collection and analysis canter;
analytical methods development for pesticides
residue;
control of the quality assurance program for                   °
Station level laboratories.                                       p



Food Safety and Ouality Control
Institutions in hmunary
Central Level            operational        Br               Staff                                 Missions
Level                  (Ministry of Health end
Welfare)
Coordination of public health
Department of Publlc                               1                20+                    activities, including food control;
Health                                                                                     licensing of "navel" and dietetic
end Epidmiology                                                                           foods, additives, baby foods, cosmetics
and inspection of processing
facilities;
establishing safe tolerance levels for
contaminants, pesticides and other
hazardous materials in foods.
Public heath inspection;
Medical Officer                                              hygiene inspection of food handling.
and Public           20                NA                    storing, production and service
Health Stations                                              establishmentsa
laboratory analyses.
Technical support and expertise for the
National Inatituto of                                                                     ministry and field stations;
Food Bygiene and                                   1100+                                   testing of novel, dietetic, baby.
Nutrition                                                                                  fortified and enriched foods;
testing of food packaging materials;                                          5-
licensing of catering and food service                                        P-
equipment;                                                                    I
assistance for the establishment of
safe tolerance levels for food
contaminantt.
Central Level            Operational         Nr              Staff                                     Missions
Level                   (Ministry of Industry
and Trade)
NA                     Preo-market testing of new products or imported
Institute of Cocmmercial                            1                                       for the first time to Hungary;
Quality Control (KEMI)                                                                      market surveillance program (marketing
practices and product inspection);
quality certification;
laboratory analyses.
130             The organization is currently undergoing a reform;
Bungarian Office for                                1                               its main functions are likely to be:
Standardization (MiZ)                                                                       coordination of the standards making process                         eV
(terminology. metrology, testing methods,                            lb
OQ
product specifications, services);                                   o
promotion of the use of standards and                                4 
training;
technological watch;                                                 ii
laboratory accreditation;
accreditation of certifying bodies.                                  R4



HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Action Programs to Strengthen the Enabling Environment
I. Public Sector Action Program
1. PRODUCT SAFETY AND OUALITY CONTROL. AND STANDARDIZATION
SHORT-TERM ACTIONS                 MEDIUM-TERN ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                         CONSTRAINTS                     ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                         Target date:                         Target date:
Prior to Dec. 1993.                 Prior to Dec. 1996.
A. Product Ouality and Consumer Protection (Ministry of Industry and Trade, and Ministry of Justice)
*   Adapt the legal              0   The current overall legal    *   Draft Laws on Product                      *   Present draft Laws on
framework to the needs           framework is inadequate.              Liability and Conasumer                   Product Liability and
of a market economy.                                                   Protection are under                      Conasuer Protection to
*   Overall industry weakness             preparatiox..                             the Parliament.
*   Adjust Hungarian                  in developing its own
regulations to EC                quality control measures
regulations and                  and capabilities.
directives.
*   Provide incentives for
improved quality
control within the                                                                                                                                                                    in
industry.
B.  Food Safety and Quality Control (Ministry of Agriculture)
*   Adjust legal framework    *   The current Food Law lacks   *   Two FAO reports have been                     *   Review, update and               *   Review the progress of
to the requirements of           elements of adequate                  submitted to the Government in            present to the Parliament            introduction of EC
a market economy.                definition, prohibition.              1991. identifying main                    draft Laws on Food,                  regulations and
autberities and penalties,           constraints and issues in view            Animal Health and Plant              directives into Hungarian
of Hungary's desire to reshape            Protection,                          legislation.
the food control
infrastructure and
organization so that it
conforms to EC standards.
*   Adjust Hungarian             *   Food control activities           *   The 1991 EC association               *   Start publishing the
regulations to EC                are currently carried out             agreement implies an                      Hungarian Coder
regulations and                  by a multitude of                     harmonization of food                     Aliment.arius.
directives,                      different agencies,                   legislation.
*   Design a cost effective   *   Overemphasis on laboratory   *   Coordinating authority has
quality control and               analyses control, as                 been entrusted to the Ministry
inspection system.               opposed to inspection                 of Agriculture.
control.
*   Improve  in-house'           *   Import/export controls                                                      *   Implement a reform  plan
quality control in the           need to be strengthened.                                                        of the quality control                                                A
food industry,                                                                                                   and inspection system in                                              o
*   Overall industry weakness                                                       line wtith FAO study's
in developing its own                                                          recomaendations a.'
quality control measures                                                                                                                              0
and capabilities.                                                                                                                                    ml



PRODUCT SAFETY AND OUALITY CONTROL. AND STANDARDIZATION (continued)
SHORT-TERM ACTIONS                  MEDIUM-TERM ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                      CONSTRAINTS                  ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                        Target date:                         Target date:
Prior  to Dec.  1993.                Prior  to  Dec.  1996
C. Standardization/Accreditation (Hungarian Ofc. for Standardization, President of the OFMB, and Min. of Justice)
0   Provide                 *   The current system of              *   A draft Law on Standards   *   Present the draft Law On
institutianal               mandatory Hungarian                    and Accreditation is              Standards and Accreditation to
support to                  standards, mainly based On             beia  prepared.                  the Parliawent.
-tandardization and         CHU standards, are not
accreditation,              adapted to the requirements    e   The Hungarian Office for   *   Proceed with the establisament
of a market econoy. and               Standardization in                 of the institutional framework
should evolve into a                  undergoing a                       for promoting voluntary
voluntary standards system;           restructuring process,             standards and creating the
the current Law of                                                      national accreditation system  of
Standardization and Quality                                              certifying bodies operating on a
Matters needs to be modified                                             voluntary basis in line with
accordingly.                                                             international requirements
(laboratories, institutions to
provide certification of quality
assurance systems for companies.
institutions to provide
ce:tification for products.
institutions to audit already
certified quality assurance                                                 I
systems. institutions to provide                                            4
certification for personnel) and                                            '>
to proceed with the
dissemination of information
regarding standards and quality
assurance requirements.
*   Harmonize products.   *   Responsibilities regardins           *   Technical comitteeas have  *   Prepare position paper
methods and service          standardization bave                  been set up for each               clarifying the strategy and
standards with EC           traditionally been divided             sector of activity.               organizational structure of
and international           between thS  Hungarian Office                                            standardization/accreditation in
practices.                   for Standatdization and the                                              Bungay.
ministries
*   Promote Uie                  Few companies have received
implee ntation of           certification of their
quality assurance           quality assurance system  by
system  and their           third parties.
assessment.
*   Collect and             *   The current state of the           *   Training courses bave
disseminate                  economy does not support              been organized by bOS for
information, end            self-financing by the                  lead auditors, with
provide training On          Hungarian Office for                  support from the British
standardization and         Standardization.                       Standards Institute.
quality matters.
*   OFMB is funding the
certitication process for
a number of companies, to
be completed by May,                                                                                         Ca
1992. 
0i



PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Sector Action Program (continued)
2. MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM (Ministry of Agriculture)
SHORT-TERM ACTIONS                MEDIUM-TERM ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                         CONSTRAINTS                  ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                       Target date:                       T.trget date:
Prior  to Dec.  1993.              Prior  to  Dec.  1996.
*   Iprove the availability        *   Insufficient development         *   Pbysical markets have been       *   Prepare a plan for the
end quality of                     of r'apresentative markets           created (wholesale and               further development of
price/quality infomaation          aL all stages of marketing           flower markets in                    the information system
to producers. processors                                                Budapest), or are projected          including the provision
and traders. for better        *   Insufficient                         (Kecakamet); the Coinodity           of public information on
allocation of products             standardization aed                  Exchange has improved the            supply/. demand in the
over quality, time and             grading for some                     transparency of grains ann           country. and on crop
space.                             commoditios (e.g. fruits             livestock markets,                   forecasting.
and vegetables).
a   STAGEK. within the Ministry
*   The ongoing                         of Agriculture, has set up
privatization/restruct-             an electronic market
uring of public                     information system on
enterprises and                     market prices (with support                                                                               B
development of small-scale          from EC paRE).
private activities make                                                                                                                       p.
the former statistical
system inadequate.
*   Lack of adequate
infcrmation about prices
at successive stages of
marketing and about
supply/demand conditions
in regional and national
arkets.
*   Improv  the quality of         *   Lace of reliable                 *   A second development ylan        *   Engage technical
information regarding              information about current            for this system is in                assistance for the
costs of production,               and expected crops.                  progress; it will improve            Implementation of the
supply/demand conditions                                                the quality and coverage of          development plan.
anS crop forecasts,                                                     price information and will
develop the provision of
information regarding
aupply and demand on
physical markets.
*   STAMEK is preparing a
methodology for the                                                                                      t
collection and processing                                                                               0
of information, to account
for changing omership and
production conditions.                                                                                   O
ii 



PfRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public  Sector Action Proarm   (continued)
3. COMMODITY EXCHANGE (Ministry of Finance)
SHORT-TERM ACTIONS               MEDIUM-TERM ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                        CONSTRAINTS                 ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                     Target date:                       Target date:
Prior  to Dec.  1993.             Prior  to Dec.  1996.
*   The Budapest Co-wdity         0   The Exchanag  has been         *   The Ezchange has changed         a   Present the draft Act on    *   Carry out a review of the
Exchange is an LQortant           opened as a parely private         its ownership structure. in          Camodity Exchanges to             effectiveneas of the
price discovery and risk          operation, without the             line with international              the Parliament.                   legislation, end the
sngmat institution;               benefit of a public                practico.                                                              performance of the
its operations need to be         supervision authority.                                             e   Establish, and start               Supervisory Authority;
conducted within a legal                                         *   The Exchange has recently            operations of. the               emako a decision regarding
framework. and to be                                                 received a tecinical                 Supervisory Authority,            appropriate aenednts
mwnitored by a                                                        assistance grunt to support                                           end additional
supervisory authority to                                             its developaent (US Trade                                              assistenc.
prevent fraud and                                                    Drnvlopeent Program); the
manipulation  and to                                                  first part is to be
generally pratect users.                                             completed by April 1992
with a study evaluating
tecimical infrastructure                                                                              CO
and legislation
perspectives.
*   A draft Act on Comodity
Exchanges is being prepared
that provides for the
establishont of a
Supervisory Authority.
'U
0q
e 
'p>



PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPfENT PROJECT
Public Sector Action Program (continued)
4. PRODUCER AND INTERPROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS (Ministry of Agriculture, Product Councils, Producer Organizations)
SHORT-TERM ACTIONS                 MEDIUM-TERM ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                        CONSTRAINTS                ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                      Target date:                        Target date:
Prior  to Dec.  1993.               Prior  to Dec.  1996.
*   Improve tLe organization    o   Breaking-do,n of                 0   A new law on cooperatives   0   Provide technical                    *   Strengtben other Product
of producers,                     traditional trading                and a law on the                   assistance to strengthen 6            Councils.
particularly small                 relationabips.                    transformation of                  Product Councils (including
private producers, wbo                                               cooperatives have been             fruits and vegetables
are generally poorly                                                 passed by the Parliament           councils).
organized to collectively                                            in January 1992.
add value and market
their production.
*   lmprove the vertical           *   Lack of genuine               *   A national network is          *   Strengthen training at the
coordination of marketing          contractual agreements,           being organized to                 University atd professional
between producers,                                                   provide extension                  levels in post-harvest
traders, processors, and                                             services which would also          technologies (bandling.                                                   P-
consumers.                                                           reach private farmers.             packiging, storage,
transport) and marketing
(primariLy fresh fruits and
vegetables).
*   Contracts are not
respected.
'U
0
Ph



PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Sector Action Program (continued)
5. INFRASTRUCTURE (Ministry of Transport, Telecommunications and Water Management)
SHORT-TERM ACTIONS    MEDIUM-TERM ACTIONS
OLJECTIVES                          CONSTRAINTS                    ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                      Target date:                        Target date:
Prior  to  Dec.  1993.             Prior  to  Dec.  1996.
*   Need for rehabllitation   *   Lack of rural telephone lines   0   Built up adequate road                  *   Government to carry out
and modernization of             to facilitate the efficient              network.                            agreements reached with
physical infrastructure          movement of produce to                                                       the World Bank on
in order to reduce               retailers as large volumes of   0   Investment projects                      IAprovements in the
costs of distribistion           date are needed to operate a             financed by the EIB, EBRD           operations of the
and improve custemer             distribution system                      and the World Bank are              telecommunications sector
service,                         effectively. and improvement             addressing                          in order to achieve more
of the telepbone system is              telecommunications                  efficient operations.
required to meet the needs              problems.
for electronic data
processing and electronic           0   Draft law has been
conication among                        prepared by Goverment
wholesalers and retailers,               for liberalizing the
telecosmunications
*   Lack of legal framework to               market.
restructure and privatize                                                                                                                            Ln
telecammmication operations.
*   Few modern practices and
procedures integrated into
distribution system.
I'd
0)
Ftv
o
'-'a



PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Sector Action Program (continued)
TRADE PROCEDURES SIMPLIFICATION  (Ministry of International  Economic Relations)
SHORT-TERM ACTIONS            MEDIUM-TERM ACTIONS
OUJECTIVES                      CONSTRAINTS               ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                 Target date:                   Target date:
Prior to Dec.  1993.          Prior to Dec.  1996.
implify trade procedures   0   Need to move urgently in              A n interministrial group   *   Provide for the             0   Set-up a national
and asaist trading              area of technology transfer       (lUNPRO) to stimulate           trasition to the                computer network with
companies by barmonizing        of electronic data                Goverzmnt to address            Combined Barmonized             cuato  offices and
local standards and             interchange requires              Issues of trade and             Nomenclature in                 trading companies.
procedures with                 coordination between public       industry standards (e.g.        accordance with the
international practice          entities. manufacturing and       EDIFACT) bar been               requirements of the
with particular reference       trading sectors,                  established, chaired by         Association Agreent
to format, syntax and                                             the Ministry of                 with EC' within the
codes to facilitate                                               International Economic          framework of
international trade.                                              Relations.                      international trade
harmonization.
*   Lack of awareness of          0   The EDIFACT syntax has     *   Approve the EC standard
technologies being                been issued as the             for customs documentation
introduced in Western             Hungarian norm by the          as the Hungarian standard                                       %A
Europe regarding trade and        Hungarian Office for           subject to the provisions
logistics computerization.        Standardization,               of the Association
Agreement.
*   Lack of funding to support    0   The Harmonized  emen-      *   Harmonization of the
these activities in the           clature system has been        Documents of Origins with
public and private sectors,       adopted since Jan. 1,          EC requirements.
1991; its use to base
licensing and trade        *   Prepare terms of
activities will be tried       reference for the
In July 1992 on an             establisbment of a
experimental basis.            computer network link
with customs offices on
*  An international                the bordera* including
conference on trade            the possibility of
simplification was             introducing EDIFACT
organized in Budapest in       invoices.
November, 1991.
*  A work progrem
('Facilitation of the
Introduction of EDI") bas
been proposed for                                                                             t
funding. 
0q
0



-NR
PROJECT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public  Sector Action Prograz   (continued)
7.  COMMERCIAL LEGISLATION (Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Industry and Trade)
SHORT-TERN ACTIONS    MEDIUM-TERM ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                        CONSTRAINTS                 ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                    Target date:                     Target date:
Prior  to Dec.  1993.            Prior  to Dec.  1996.
0   The transforzmtion of    *   NO_ business practices.             *   Initiation of preparation   0   Finaliration of                 a   Reastatement of the Civil
the distribution and           previously umknown in                 of legislative proposals          lgislative proposals to           Code.
retail syata  involves          ungary. such as factoring.           for legislation                   incorporate factoring.
new types of business          financial leasing and                 regulating financial              financial leasin5g  and
practices previously           franchising. require adequate         leasing and factoring,            francbising into the
unknmm.                        legal acceptance, since there         with the assistance of            Civil Cod  and for a nem
la no body of law established        UNIDROIT. and for a new           law on arbitration;
by court decisions, like in           arbitration law,                 carrying out of an audit
other countries, wbich would                                           of regulations applicable
provide guidance in the legal                                          to doomstic trade, and
interpretation of such now                                             eliaination of
types of contracts,                                                    regulations which are
unjustifiably
a   The judiciary system is under                                           restrictive.
stress because of the
increase of workload deriving                                                                                                              Ul
fron an increase of its
jurisdictional
responiabilities and an
incteas in comsrcial
activity.
*   Uncortainty exists as to what
regulations still apply in
the field of domeatic trade
regulation.
Go
o



PROJWCT KARKET DEVELI)PMENT PROJECT
II. Private Sector Action Proeram
1. TRAINING AND BUSINESS SERVICES IN LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT
(Vtrious professional and trade associations, and Ministry of Industry and Trade to establish a Logistics
Promotion Center (LPCJ)
SHORT-TERN ACTIONS                  MEDIUM-TERK ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                         CONSTRAINTS                  ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                      Target date:                         Target date:
Prior to Dec. 1993                  Prior to Dec. 1996.
*   To achieve more              *   Limited knowledge in              0   Initial working Group was   *   Establiabuent of                     *   LPC to continue to:  expand
efficient operations             logistics managemet and               set up in January 1992 to           Logistics Proeotion                 comprehensive data base on
through cost reduction            insufficient awareness of            coordivate the creation             Center.                              training and advisory
during the three stages           cost reduction tecbniques            of an appropriate                                                        services in logistics
of logistics                      and measures.                        o'.ganization for                                                        management. and to
(acquisition.                                                          rromoting Logistics                                                     disseamuate this
production,                                                            Training and Management,                                                 information at the regional
distribution),                                                                                                                                  and national level;  and to
adapt its activities
according to evolving
needs.
*   Existing training and            *   International conference    *   LPC to prepare business
business services are                on Logistics held in                plan.
growing but not yet                  Budapest in Decweber 1991
sufficiently adapted to              to raise awareness of
practical neds and                   needs and possibilities.
industry-specific
requirements.
*   Lack of knowledge about          *   A number of training            *   LPC to begin
existing training and                programs in logistics               implementation of
business service options             manaKement have been                business plan for
amon  beneficiaries,                 established in some                 promotion. enhancement
universities at the post           and encouraging improved
*   Insufficient coordination             graduate level, and by              coordination in
mong relevant                        private sector                      logistics-related
institutions,                        associations and                    training and advisory
institutions,                      services.
*   Private sector
institutions have net up
plans for expansion and
improvement of their
training and business
service activities.                                                                                             e
0l



HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Private Sector Action Program (continued)
2. TRAINING FOR COXMERCIAL BANK STAFF  (International Training Center for Bankers and Commercial Banks)
SHORT-TERM ACTIONS                  MEDIUM-TERM ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                         CONSTRAINTS                    ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                        Target date:                         Target date:
Prior  to  Dec.  1993.               Prior  to  Dec.  1996.
0   To enhace the               0   Limitod experience in               a   International Training          0   Eatablishment of a specltic
capabilities of                 cc    rcial banks with                  Center for Bankers  lJTCB)          training program offered by
an agmient  nd staff            investment financing of                  in Budapest bha  been set          ITCB covering the following
of participating                service-oriented projects.              up with assistance of the           topics:  appraisal skills
ctmercial banks to              including in the aroe  of               World Bank and bas been             for loan proposals in the
appraise and                    marketing, trade and                    in operation since                  service sector; introduction
supervise loans in              distribution. which results             February 1989.                      to logistics mansasement;
activities related to           in a preference for                                                         appraisal and supervision of
logistics manasemnt.            collateral-based lending to                                                 logistics projects; modern
production-related                                                          techniques in packaging.
activities,                                                                 transport, product handling
and storage, inventory
*   Inadequate exposure of                                                      control and cost accounting;
comercial bank staff to                                                     technologies in wholesale
appraise the financial and                                                  and retail trade;
technical aspects of loans
in the area of logistics and                                                      -
distribution.
*   Initiation of Progran by
January 1. 1993.
gq
to
0
O Z



-55 -ANE6
Page 1 of 1
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
Estimated Schedule
Calendar Year and                   Amount    Cumulative
Month-ending         Fiscal                   Amount      Percentage
Semester           Year           (US$ million)         of Total
12-31-92             93           6           6             6
06-30-93             93           3            9            9
12-31-93             94          10           19            19
06-30-94             94          10           29            29
12-31-94             95          11           40           40
06-30-95             95          11           51            51
12-31-95             96          10           61            61
06-30-96             96          10           71            71
12-31-96             97          10           81            81
06-30-97             97           9           90            90
12-31-97             98           7           97           97
06-30-98             98           3           100          100
1 In general conformity with the standard disbursement profile.



- 56 -                                    ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking Sector
Structure
1.          Through the nationalization of all financial institutions in 1947,
the Hungarian banking system was transformed into a Soviet-style banking
framework, with the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) performing both central and
commercial banking functions. Following Hungary's membership in IMF and World
Bank (1982), fundamental changes have taken place in the financial system.
After the establishment of a bond market in 1984, the radical and
comprehensive banking reform of 1987 introduced a two-tier banking system
which allowed the central bank to focus increasingly on the conduct of
monetary policy and other central banking functions, and the commercial banks
to develop market relationships with the corporate and household sectors. As
a result of the banking reform in Hungary, which started much earlier than in
other East European countries, Hungary has, by far, the most advanced banking
system in the region.
2.          National Bank of Hungary.  With the separation of the banking
system into two tiers in 1987, the central bank, NBH, was able to move away
from its previous commercial banking responsibilities, and increasingly began
functioning like a traditional central bank. After 1987, NBH continued to be
responsible for some commercial banking activities like foreign exchange
operations. By the summer of 1992, however, NBH intends to completely free
the foreign exchange market with foreign exchange licenses being granted to
commercial banks. NBH has been relatively autonomous over the past two to
three years; passage of a new Central Banking Law, which became effective in
December 1991, formally guarantees the autonomy of NBH, which now reports to
the Parliament, and limits the extent of budgetary financing by NBH.
3.          Financial Institutions.  The New Banking Law, which is in effect
since December of 1991, envisages four types of financial institutions able to
conduct banking services: a) commercial banks, which can conduct the full
range of banking activities defined in the law for any type of client; b)
specialized financial institutions, which perform those banking activities
permitted under agreement with the State Banking Supervision Agency; c)
investment banks, which can only operate in longer term markets (for example,
loans and deposits with maturities exceeding one year); and d) savings banks,
which generally engage in the full range of banking activities set forth in
the law under agreement with SBS.
4.          The banking system has developed rapidly since 1987.  There are
currently 37 commercial banks in Hungary of which 31 have a commerciai banking
license, while five are licensed as specialized financial institutions. Some
15 of the commercial banks are joint ventures with foreign participation.
here are two commercial savings banks, the National Savings Bank, and
Takarekbank, which represents the 260 savings cooperatives in the country. By
the end of 1991, commercial banks had a total of over 900 branches and a total



- 57 -
Page 2 of 6
staff of about 30,000. Table 1 shows developments in the structure of the
banking system.
Table 1: Development of the Banking System. 1987-91
1987  1989  1991
Large Commercial Banks                4      4     4
Joint Venture Banks                   2      5    15
Other Commercial Banks                2      7    11
Savings Banks                          1     2     2
Specialized Financial Institutions   10      8     5
Total                                19   26   37
5.          Banks in Hungary are required to operate as joint-stock companies.
Banks are owned by the State, by non-financial enterprises, and by domestic
and foreign fLnancial institutions. The State's direct share in bank capital
has decrease& over time, reaching an average of 33 percent at the end of 1990.
State holdings are higher in the large banks (Budapest Bank, Commercial and
Credit Bank, Hungarian Credit Bank, and the Foreign Trade Bank), and range
from 33 to 50 percent.
6.          Total assets of commercial banks are estimated to have increased
in nominal terms by 61 percent from 1987 to 1990. This represents, however, a
decline in real terms since the cumulative rate of consumer price inflation
totalled 75 percent between 1987 and 1990. In contrast, reported bank equity
rose in real terms.
Legal Framework and Institutional Set-Up
7.          Legal Framework.  Bank supervision in Hungary is carried out by
the State Banking Supervision Agency (SBS) which was created in 1987 following
the bank system reformation process in 1987. The achievements of the
supervisory authorities in laying down the supervisory, legal and accounting
framework have been significant. In 1991, the Hungarian Parliament passed a
number of laws that determine the future development of the financial system.
These include: a) an Accounting Law specifying accounting and auditing
standards which lay the groundwork for more transparency, consistency,
objectivity and accountability in the verification of economic performance of
enterprises; b) a Bankruptcy Law enforcing financial discipline on borrowers
by defining enforceable rules and regulations governing the exit of
enterprises and the allocation of losses; c) an Investment Funds Law
providing for the establishment, management, operations and supervision of
mutual funds and real estate funds; d) a Central Banking Law establishing an
independent central bank responsible exclusively to Parliament in its task to
protect the domestic and external purchasing power of the national currency
and to regulate and supervise financial institutions; and e) an Act on
Financial Institutions and Financial Institutions Activities which is
redefining the supervision activities of SBS.
8.          SBS's most important achievement remains the passage of the New
Banking Law which lays down the framework for the operations and supervision
of a modern banking system. The Law is comprehensive and conforms broadly



- 58 -
Page 3 of 6
with EC standards, while at the same time transitory provisions allow time for
the financial system to adjust to the rapidly developing market conditions.
Important features of the Banking Law include, among others, the following
regulations: a) State ownership of banks is limited to 25 percent of equity;
b) no restrictions apply to foreign participation and ownership in the banking
system; c) two deposit insurance funds will be established; and d) bank
investment in enterprises is limited to 51 percent and may not exceed 100
percent of bank capital.
9.          Although significant achievements have been made in the legal
framework, emerging new institutions and banking instruments will require to
constantly update existing laws and regulations. SBS will need to keep
abreast of the financial standing of banks which is expected to have
deteriorated in 1991. SBS will have to ensure that its ability to monitor
developments, and to regulate and supervise all participants continues to
develop apace.
10.         Bank Privatization.  The passage of the Banking Law obliges the
State to reduce its direct and indirect holdings in the banking system. With
regard to their ownership, banks fall into two categories. The first consists
of the small banks which, although still being owned by the State, maintain a
sizeable share of domestic or foreign ownership. The second group comprises
the five large banks, including the three large commercial banks with
portfolio-related difficulties (Budapest Bank, Commercial and Credit Bank, and
Hungarian Credit Bank) the Foreign Trade Bank, and the National Savings Bank.
Private ownership of banks in this group is low, and privatization of these
banks will require resolution of serious vortfolio p-.oblems. The guiding
principles and the process that are to govern the sale of State ownership in
banks have yet to be defined, which will need to be carried out without delay
to improve governance and avoid lack of clarity and uncertainty in the banking
system.
Interest Rates
11.         NBH influences the level of interest rates in the banking system
through regulation of the money supply and through the interest rate on
refinancing loans. Over the past two years, most controls on interest rates
have been discontinued. Until the end of 1990, NBH set upper limits for
deposit and lending rates of households. To encourage household savings, in
early 1991, these limits were discontinued for deposits with maturities
exceeding six months. NBH establishes a base refinancing rate, used for long-
term refinancing loans, and from 1991, for loans to the Government. The base
refinancing rate is changed periodically in an attempt to keep it positive in
real terms against expected inflation, and is currently 22 percent.
12.         As of late 1991, key market interest rates were as follows:  Short
term rates were 34-35 percent, interbank money market rates about 32 percent,
and Treasury Bill rates 33-35 percent. Deposit rates ranged from 23 percent
for short term deposits to 34 percent for deposits exceeding one year
maturity. Lending rates for the same period were 36 percent (less than one
year) and 32 percent (more than one year). World Bank funds are onlent to
commercial banks at the base refinancing rate. After adding their spreads to



- 59 -                                    AEX 7
Page 4 of 6
cover credit administrative and risk costs, the banks have been able to lend
the funds to the final borrowers at rates of around 26 to 27 percent.
Recent Performance of Banks
13.         Credits.  Credits in domestic currency to the enterprise sector
fell in real terms between 1987 and 1990, and they accounted for only about
one third of total bank assets in 1990. Banks are becoming increasingly
conservative in their lending activities, and they are enlarging their liquid
assets and concentrating on short-term loans which represented 57 percent of
total credits in 1990. This emphasis on short-term credit reveals a cautious
response to the increased uncertainty and lack of adequate information about
investment prospects. Small and medium-sized banks achieved a large increase
in market share, especially in short-term credits. Savings banks considerably
expanded their involvement in enterprise lending, especially in long-term
credits.
14.         Liabilities.  Reliance on NBH refinancing has declined for the
aggregate banking sector from 70 percent of all credits extended to the
enterprise sector in 1987 to 59 percent of these credits in 1990. This was
caused by a fall in the reliance on NBH refinancing by large banks from 71
percent of their credits in 1987 to 62 percent in 1990. Banks successfully
mobilized additional business deposits (growth of 69 percent between 1987 and
1990), with small and medium-sized banks being particularly active in this
area.
15.         Revenues and Costs.  Hungarian banks have high shares of fee-based
incomes, partly attributable to banks charging for services that in most
Western markets are free. Accounts prepared along international accounting
standards for the four large banks show that they had an average interest
margin of 4.8 percent in 1990. Adding net fee and other income of 2.9 percent
raises the gross income margin to 7.7 percent. The large banks also had
relatively large total expenses (including provisions for loan losses) of 4.5
percent of average total assets, resulting in a pre-tax return on assets of
3.2 percent in 1990, with taxes on banks representing a substantial burden.
16.         Efficiency and Profitability.  Available aggregate data on ban.
profitability suffer from poor accounting standards and uncertainty about che
size of non-performing loans. NBH data show that the nominal return on
average total assets was around 4 percent in 1990 for the entire banking
system. Large banks were close to this average, and small and medium-size
banks earned even higher returns. Banks may not be able to sustain their
present high spreads for several reasons: a) as inflation slows down, banks
will benefit less from the currently large spreads between lending and deposit
rates; b) overhead cost will rise as banks develop their branch networks; c)
competition in the banking sector is likely to intensify further.
17.         Bank Portfolios.  Non-performing loans of the three large banks
(Budapest Bank, Commercial and Credit Bank, and Hungarian Credit Bank) were
estimated to amount to approximately Ft 50 billion (or 13 percent of total
loan volume) by the end of 1990, according to international accounting
standards.  Required provisions equalled Ft 28.1 billion.  For 1991, it is



- 60 -                                        _NNEX 7
Page 5 of 6
expected that due to the decline in GDP, the underlying assets of the banking
system have undergone significant deterioration, thus worsening portfolio
problems of the banking sector. According to the Banking Law, banks are
allowed three years to raise bad debt provisions to the required levels so as
to fulfill Hungary's new prudential standards. An agreement signed in
December 1991 between the Government and the three large banks, guaranteeing
50 percent of non-performing loans that they had inherited from NBH in 1987,
will contribute to the financial strengthening of the banks.
Banking Infrastructure
18.         Payment Systems.  Payments in Hungary typically take up to ten
working days to settle. However, owing to antiquated procedures and obsolete
technology in banks, as well as due to a lack of links to branches, the actual
recording of credits in accounts takes up to three weeks. Rapid introduction
of a national electronic funds transfer network for clearings and settlements
of payment obligations constitutes a major priority. A Giro company owned by
banks has been created, and a Giro network is expected to be operational by
the end of 1992 offering on-line clearing and settlement capability. Key
issues that remain to be addressed include the definition of the role of NBH
in the settlement process and the establishment of a regulatory framework for
tFe payments system.
19.         Bank Automation.  As parts of their modernization efforts, and
especially in conjunction with the introduction of the Giro payments system,
commercial banks are increasingly introducing modern banking information
technology in support of their back-office functions. For the future, banks
plan to extend automation to regional networks. Some banks have recently
introduced automated teller machines, some offer debit cards, and some,
international credit cards.
20.         Bank Training.  As in other former CMEA countries, Hungary faces a
significant shortage of modern banking skills. To face this challenge, the
International Training Center for Bankers (ITCB) was established in 1989.
ITCB is owned by banks and has been highly successful, with over 6,000
participants in its first three years of operation. While many banks will
continue to use ITCB for much of their training needs, as they begin to
develop distinct corporate identities and cultures, and as they develop into
different market niches, they will increasingly address some of their training
needs through the development of in-house programs.
21.         Information Exchange.  In order to successfully play their
financing role in the reforming economy, banks will require additional and
higher quality information on enterprises that is presently available to them.
Accounting information is still largely non-informative, there is no rating
system for firms, and banks typically refrain from sharing information on
defaulting debtors. Several banks are proposing the establishment of a Credit
Information Exchange which would enable them to arrive at more informed and
sound credit decisions. Issues to be resolved in designing such information
systems relate to assigning responsibilities for the accuracy of information
and to assuring confidentiality.



- 61-                                      ANNEX ?
Page 6 of 6
Institutional Development of Banks
22.         Earlier Bank credit lines to the industrial and agricultural
sectors in Hungary have progressively contributed to institutional development
of the banks involved in these credit lines, particularly in the development
of proper lending and investment policies, and of the capacity to appraise and
supervise subloans to a variety of subprojects, including through technical
assistance and training components provided under the credit lines. The FSMP
intensified the process in the case of the four large banls (Budapest Bank,
Credit and Commercial Bank, Hungarian Credit Bank and the National Savings
Bank) by assisting in developing institutional development programs (IDPs) to
address major deficiencies still existing in the banks. The IDPs were
conducted by consultants with the participation of the institutions, and the
recommendations are in the process of implementation. The institutional
development programs involved a detailed diagnostic of the major functional
areas of the banks; outputs included a strategy for the bank, an
organizational plan to reflect the strategy, and necessary improvements in the
banks' key functional areas, including credit, treasury, planning and
budgeting, human resource development, management information systems, and
internal audit. The consultants were to recommend improvements in systems,
policies, procedures, and organization. The proposed Second Financial System
Modernization Project will support the implementation of the recommended
improvement, with particular emphasis on strengthening of credit assessment
and loan management systems. In the case of the small banks, areas for
priority assistance will be identified, and technical assistance for their
development will be supported under the proposed project.



- 62-                                      ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Implementation
1.       The success of project implementation depends on effective actions to
provide the appropriate enabling environment for product market development.
This includes coordination and promotion of specific activities in the public
sector as well as in the private sector and commercial banks. A Steering
Committee, chaired by a high-level representative of the Ministry of Industry
and Trade (MIT) would coordinate all project activities including review of
progress in onlending operations, technical assistance and training, and
actions under the programs to strengthen the enabling environment. In
addition to MIT, membership of the Committee will consist of representatives
from the Ministries of Agriculture; International Economic Relations;
Transport, Telecommunications and Water Management; Finance; and Justice;
Hungarian Office of Standardization (HOS); National Technology Develonment
Committee (OFMB); NBH, and commercial banks participating in the project. A
Work Unit will provide administrative services for the committee, and would
collect and review the reports from the entities in charge of implementation
and liaise among the groups as well as with the Bank.
2.       The primary functions of the Steering Committee will be to:
(i)   assist government entities and the private sector participants to
coordinate roles, responsibilities and resources related to
project implementation;
(ii)   resolve differences, if any, encountered during the course of
implementation;
(iii)   provide support to any participant encountering difficulties in
meeting their obligations to the project; and
(iv)   monitor project progress, and evaluate the effect of
implementation activities.
3.       The Project Work Unit (PvhU) would be located in the MIT.  It would be
headed by an appropriate senior level official of the MIT, supported by
adequate staff and facilities. Each ministry/agency involved in the Steering
Committee would name a contact person at that ministry/agency who would serve
as the focal point for liaison with the PWU in matters relating to the
project, including provision of necessary information related to the progress
of the enabling environment and technical assistance components relevant to
that ministry/agency. NBH would be responsible for providing the Steering
Committee, through the PW1T, with information on the progress of the credit
line component.



- 63 -                                     ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
4.       The functions of the PWU would be to:
(i)   collect, process and present to the Steering Committee relevant
information on project progress, including the credit line
component, enabling environment programs, and the technical
assistance components;
(ii)   liaise with the World Bank in matters regarding the project; and
(iii)   provide assistance to project participants in obtaining relevant
informational or other assistance to help them carry out their
obligations.



- 64 -                                     ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trade and Industry Logistics Management
Promotion. Advisory and Training Services
Background
1.          Enhancement of the competitiveness of Hungarian producers and
traders in domestic and export maikets will require the establishment of
mechanisms which are essential for creating a market environment in which
producers, traders and consumers can interact effectively. An important
objective is to ensure that evolving demand in the domestic and international
markets for different goods and services can be addressed efficiently through
appropriate adjustments in the organization of production programs, in
marketing arrangements, and in pricing provisions. Another important
objective is to ensure that the national service industries will become
capable of meeting the changing profile of demand for required logistical
support in line with revised production and marketing strategies.
2.          There is a need to establish an enabling environment for these
processes and adjustments to materialize. The creation of such an enabling
environment is the principal objective under the Product Market Development
Project. Needed regulations, adequately developed and managed infrastructure,
and the availability of modern equipment will be key prerequisites for
achieving such an enabling environment. An essential requirement relates to
the need for appropriately trained and experienced personnel to manage
effectively all functions associated with production, marketing, and the
provision of supporting services. Out of the estimated 4.8 million persons
employed in the national economy, there are currently about 1.3 million
engaged in the industrial sector, 440 thousand in trading, and roughly 350
thousand in the service industries. In the aggregate, about 20 percent of
those employed within the industrial sector, in trading, and in the service
industries are professionals of different categories, the rest is labor.
3.          The concept of integrated logistics management, which spans the
functions of materials acquisition, product manufacturing, merchandise
marketing, and physical distribution is still widely unknown within industrial
and trading circles in Hungary. Application of modern logistics management
principles in manufacturing and marketing processes is therefore limited.
Most critically, however, is the implied fact that Hungarian manufacturers and
traders are largely unaware of the growing importance of effective logistics
organizations in competitive practice elsewhere in Europe. This phenomenon is
also becoming a reality in Hungary's domestic market. The lifting of import
quotas and restrictions has induced aggressive penetration in local wholesale
and retail markets of foreign manufacturers and traders who employ state-of-
the-art logistics organizations. Consequently it has become a matter of vital
importance for Hungarian businesses to adopt the same logistics practices
which have enabled their foreign competitors to gain and expand their market
shares.



-65-                                      ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
4.          There is thus an urgent need to update the knowledge of managers
and staff involved in manufacturing and trading processes in Hungary, as
regards modern logistics technologies, management concepts, and organizational
arrangements that have permitted major productivity improvements and enhanced
competitive performance of industries and trade organizations in Western
countries. At the same time, there is a need to train managers and employees
in the Hungarian industries and trade sector to create a situation whereby
such modern technologies can be effectively introduced, and management
concepts with proven productivity enhancement potential can be internalized in
their manufacturing ani marketing processes.
5.          Such training needs can be met in several ways, including
*     seminars and workshops of relatively short duration for
managers and professionals;
*     on-site demonstrations and structured 'hands-on' courses for
payroll employees;
formalized professional education and refresher courses of
several weeks duration;
*     introduction of modern materials management and logistics
organization aspects into undergraduate curricula and
graduate study programs for industrial engineering, mining,
and agro sciences;
*     introduction of modern trade and industry logistics
management concepts into undergraduate curricula and
graduate study programs for business administration and
economic sciences; and
*     establishment of dedicated graduate programs in the general
area of trade and industry logistics management.
6.          Several academic institutions in Hungary have taken steps to
introduce logistics management aspects into their teaching programs. In
addition, a number of professional trade and industry associations have
started to put dissemination of modern logistics management practice on their
agenda. They are also contemplating the organization of training programs and
workshops in support of these objectives. Furthermore, one can observe a
rapid growth in the number of consulting firms that specialize or intend to
build up expertise in the organization of logistics management schemes.
Finally, there are increasing cases of foreign offers and arrangements to
assist in logistics management related professional training and formal
education.
Objectives
7.          As an integral part of the Product Market Development Project, a
national Logistics Promotion Center (LPC) will be established. LPC's key
mandate will be:
*     to create awareness within the national industry and trading
communities of the importance of effective logistics



- 66 -AlNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
organizations for commercial success, and to organize
corresponding public relations campaigns;
*     to be the focal point and facilitator of discussions
regarding the organization and management of logistics
related training and formal education in Hungary;
*     to inventory and evaluate all existing or planned logistics
training and education programs, as well as advisory
services (public and private) in Hungarv;
*     to act as advisor to anybody who is in need of assistance to
introduce or streamline trade and industry logistics
organizations, or to arrange for log4.stics related personnel
training;
*     to establish and maintain a reference library which will
include key international journals and publications which
relate to trade and industry logistics management, Hungarian
versions of principal reference material, and a data bank of
international and domestic industrial and trade performance
indicators;
*     to act as a facilitator of logistics related information
exchange and professional dialogue among national
businesses;
*     to organize special workshops and seminars on selected
topics of logistics organization and management;
*     to provide technical assistance in cases where no local
expertise is available;
*     to establish and maintain professional contacts and expert
exchange programs with similar organizations in other
countries; and
*     to organize training for Hungarian logistics personnel at
reputable foreign institutions.
Organization
8.          The organizational and procedural arrangements for LPC have been
the subject of intensive debate within and among the leading professional
associations, and the key Government bodies involved in the Product Market
Development Project. The following private sector organizations have
committed their full support and are willing to act as supporting agencies:
(a) the Hungarian Logistics Association; (b) the Hungarian Association of
Logistics, Purchasing and Inventory Management; (c) the Hungarian Marketing
Association;



- 67 -
Page 4 of 5
(d) the National Trade Association; and (e) the Institute of Transport
Sciences. These five organizations, together with the Ministry of Industry
and Trade, and the Ministry of International Economic Relations, through their
respective appointed delegates, will form the advisory board of LPC. The
advisory board will be chaired by the representative of the Ministry of
Industry and Trade.
9.          The Ministry of Industry and Trade as principal agency for project
execution will provide the full operational budget for LPC during the first
two years. It is planned to guide the Center towards financial self-
sufficiency. Starting with the third year of its existence, and after having
established the reputation as a reliable advisor and service provider, LPC
will commence charging for its services. The expectation is that the Center
will cover 50 percent of its budgetary requirements through service charges
during the third year, and to reach full financial self-sufficiency by the end
of the fourth year.
10.         The Center will have a permanent staff of three appropriately
qualified professionals with adequate support staff. Qualified candidates
will be shortlisted by a working group which has been formed by the five
professional associations; their selection has to be agreed by all members of
the advisory board. The Center will be established in Budapest, and will be
provided with sufficient space in line with common administrative practice in
Hungary. The Center will include a combined reference library/visitor
facility. The Center will be equipped with modern office technology and
communication facilities. Adequate arrangements for transport will be made.
The estimated budgetary support to the Center during the Project
Implementation phase (four years), and under the assumption of gradually
achieving financial self-sufficiency (see above), will be US$1.75 million
equivalent, of which US$800,000 are expected to be expenditures in foreign
exchange.
11.         LPC will draw up annual business plans which will set out the
intended professional support activities in logistics management, as well as
the proposed training program. This will be accompanied by a detailed
budgeting needs assessment, and financing plan (starting from the third year).
The business plan will be presented and has to be discussed by the advisory
board. I.-  advisory board will also convene in two months intervals to review
and guide the activities of LPC. The Center's financial performance will be
subjected to formal auditing at the end of each fiscal year.
Timetable
12.         Following steps are required to make LPC operational:
*     establishment of the advisory board:  May 1992 1;
*     shortlisting candidates to staff LPC:  June 1992;
I/ Established.



- 68 -                                    ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
*     establishment of office space, acquisition of required equipment,
and appointment of LPC staff: Au&gust 1992;
*     Center fully operational: October 1992; and
*     submission of first year's (1993) business plan with all
necessary organizational and budgetary details:
November 1992.



-69-                                      ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training for Commercial Bank Staff
Terms of Reference
Obiectives
Commercial bankers appraising loan applications under the proposed
Project need to be in a position to arrive at sound judgements on the
financial viability and technical adequacy of investments involving activities
related to logistics management. The objective of the proposed training
program would be to address this need.
Method
A training course would be added to the course program at the ITCB. It
would be of five-days duration with six hours of net teaching per day, and it
would ccoer, but not be limited to, the following topics:
appraisal skills for loan proposals in the service sector, and
project evaluation techniques for cash-flow based lending;
introduction to the concept of logistics management;
appraisal and supervision skills for logistics-related projects;
overview of state-of-the-art technologies in various logistics
functions, including packaging, transport, product handling and
storage, inventory control and related cost accounting equipment
(e. g. bar coding), and other modern technologies associated with
efficiency improvements within the management of the flow of
consumer goods;
overview of modern technologies in the retail and wholesale trade
sector and
-     overview on pricing and risk management in commodity markets.
ResDonsible Institution
Commercial banks participating in the proposed project would be
responsible for selecting and designating their staff members to be trained at
ITCB. ITCB would be responsible for organizing preparation of the course
material, selection of appropriate teachers who would be native speakers in
Hungarian, and provision of the training facilities.
Timetable
By June 30. 1992: ITCB to select two Hungarian experts and
professionals who would serve as trainers, one in the area of cash-flow
based lending techniques, and the other in technological aspects of



- 70 -                                     A       10
Page 2 of 2
modern logistics management; the latter expert could possibly be
identified with the assistance of the three logistics associations that
operate in Hungary;
By September 1. 1992: ITCB to send one expert to appropriate
institutions and industrial enterprises in Western countries for a
duration of one month in order to acquire the latest know-how to be
incorporated into the training course; and
By January 1. 1993: Training courses to be set up and course
preparation to be completed; start of training sessions for commercial
bankers.
Estimated Costs
Multilateral and/or bilateral donor financing would be sought for all
activities related to the preparation of the co rse material. Once the
relevant course has been set up, all variable e.sts arising in connection with
teaching would be borne by the participating commercial banks who would be
charged a daily fee of around Ft7,000 per participating staff member,
resulting in around Ft35,000 per participant for the one-week course.
Preliminary cost estimates for the preparation and setting up of the training
course are given below.
Cost for Hungarian trainer to be sent abroad
to gain experience on financial techniques
and technological aspects of logistics
management in Western countries                    US$10,000
Cost for preparing course material for the five-
days course (adaptation, translation)             USS3O.OOO
Total Cost For Course Preparation                        US$40,000



- 71 -                                   ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market Information System
Terms of Reference
Background
1.          A critical component of product market development is the
information system. Public and private information must be available to
participants in the food marketing system, so that they can take appropriate
actions (selling, buying, storing, transporting, sorting, processing) to
allocate products efficiently over quality, time and space.
2.          The information system in the Ministry of Agriculture is currently
being developed through two projects, both financed under the EC PHARE
program: (i) the Market Information System (MIS); and, (ii) the Farm
Accounting System (FAS). Both information systems have been located in
STAGEK, the statistical branch of the Ministry of Agriculture.
3.          In its current state, the MIS collects daily price information on
wholesale and retail markets, on the Budapest Commodity Exchange, as well as
on processing and storing enterprises for fresh fruits and vegetables, grains
and livestock. This information is disseminated through a number of channels,
including newspapers and magazines, videotex, and computer to computer links.
The MIS, initially set up by STAGEK, is currently being strengthened through
technical assistance being provided under the PHARE program. Emphasis has been
placed on: (i) improving the quality of the data collected and disseminated
(e.g., coverage, timeliness, accuracy, access); and (ii) improving the
performance of the information system (hardware, software, communications).
This assistance should allow the MIS to reinforce its credibility and
usability with the end-users.
4.          Despite these notable advances and the on-going improvement of the
information system, a significant gap remains, however, in the provision of a
range of information needed by producers, traders, and processors. This is
essentially due to the lack of reliable and accessible information on the
conditions in national and regional markets in regard to supply and demand of
the main commodities (e.g., production, stocks, trade) , as well as elements
of crop and livestock production forecasting (e.g., farmers' intentions, areas
planted, animal stocks). This results partly from: (i) the increasing
decentralization of production, marketing and processing activities, which
have made the previous system obsolete; and (ii) the lack of an effective data
collection and communication system between the local and central levels of
the Ministry of Agriculture.
5.          The information that would be collected and disseminated under the
program would have value both for the private sector and for the
Administration, which would improve its ability to monitor market situations.
The specific requirements of the two demands should be clearly identified,
however, as they are likely to differ in their implications for program



-72-                                     ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
implementation. A related issue is tht extent of the Government's
responsibility in terms of data collection and information, as opposed to
private sector efforts i.n this area. It is clear that the successful
experience of other countries in this respect should be taken into
consideration in order to precisely delineate the nature and scope of the
Government's involvement.
Objectives
6.          The proposed program for enhancement of the MIS would seek to:
(i)     delineate the range of supply/demand and crop forecasting
information which would be provided by public sources;
(ii)     expand the current information system by developing a sub-system
dealing specifically with supply/demand monitoring and crop
forecasting, and adapted to the changing production and marketing
conditions; and,
(iii)     integrate this sub-system with the existing price information
systems into a comprehensive market news service, to disseminate
information pertinent to food marketing system activities.
Method
7.          1st Rhase.  In the first phase, specialized foreign consultants
would evaluate the current information system and advise the Ministry of
Agriculture on the appropriate institutional and operational organization for
a Market News Service (i.e., nature of the services provided to users by the
unit, identification of data disseminated, methodology for data collection,
information network, data exchange and communication infrastructure, and
dissemination infrastructure). During this phase, familiarization visits
would be organized for a selected group from the Ministry of Agriculture and
relevant Product Councils to appropriate market news services and statistical
information services in Western countries.
8.          On the basis of their technical recommendations, the consultants
would prepare an evaluation of the system specification (hardware, software,
communications, training) and its estimated cost, as well as projections for
expected income and cost of maintenance.
9           2nd Dhase. Implementation of the plan - installation of the
system; training of staff; and beginning of dissemination of the information.
Responsible Institutton
10.         The Ministry of Agriculture would be in charge of the
implementation of the program.



- 73 -NNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
Timetable
11.         Implementation of the project would extend over two years,
starting from January 1993. It is expected that the first phase would be
completed within six months.
Estimated Costs
12.         Estimated costs over a two-year period are about US$ 800,000
(excluding salaries), all in foreign currency. Actual costs for the second
phase (implementation) would be re-estimated after completion of the first
phase.
Local       Foreign        Total
-- ---------US$ -
1st phase:
Consultants and study
tours to similar
institutions of Western countries           -            150,000      150,000
2nd Rhase:
Computers, printers,
software, X25 communication networks        -650000                   650.000
Total Cost                                         800,000     800,000



- 74 -EX
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Strengthening of the Food Safety and Quality Control System and
Infrastructure in Hungary
Terms of Ref?rence
Background
1.          The food safety and quality control program in Hungary is the
shared responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), the Ministry of
Health and Welfare (MHW), and the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT). A
recent appraisal of the food safety and quality control system in Hungary
indicated a need for substantial reform of the legislative, organizational and
operational framework. Furthermore, in view of the recent agreements between
EC and EFTA countries, as well as the association agreement signed with the
EC, the harmonization of Hungarian regulations with European regulations and
directives should constitute a central component of this reform.
2.          In the medium term, through the strengthening of the relevant
existing infrastructure, and of the food safety and control quality system in
Hungary, the proposed program would: (i) increase consumer health protection;
(ii) prevent the distribution and sale of misrepresented food products; (iii)
enhance international trade of foods by establishing the needed additional
mechanisms and controls to meet EC standards and requirements; (iv) strengthen
food import controls; and, (v) develop internal quality control programs in
the industry.
3.          The existing food legislation in Hungary is being reviewed in
order to adjust it to the requirements of a market economy; strengthening of
the food safety and quality control organization and infrastructure would
complement this initiative in the designing of a cost-effective system.
Obiectives
4.          The proposed initiative would address the following objectives:
(i)   definition of national objectives and strategies in food
safety and quality control;
(ii) consolidation of food safety and quality control activities,
currently carried out by a multitude of different agencies,
in order to eliminate redundancies;
(iii) progressive shift from laboratory analyses to inspection
control;
(iv) provision of training at the levels of management of food
safety and quality control programs, inspection procedures,
compliance policy and enforcement implementation;



- 75-AEX 12
rage 2 of 2
(v)   provision of appropriate equipment and supplies;
(vi)  strengthening of import/export food controls; and,
(vii) improvement of internal quality control capabilities in the
industry.
Method
5.          The technical assistance to be provided would consist of: (i)
expert assistance by specialized foreign consultants for specific periods of
time, and (ii) study tours and training in North American and EC countries for
selected personnel from the control agency(ies).
Responsible Institution
6.          The Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible for the
implementation of the program.
Timetable
7.          The program is expected to start by January 1993.
Estimated Costs
8.          Estimated costs are as follows:
Lgocal      Foreign      Total
-.-----.---.-us$ ----------- --
Foreign consultants in Hungary        60,000       240,000     300,000
Study tours and training                           250,000     250,000
Equipment                             25.Q00       225.000     250.000
Total Cost                            85,000       715,000     800,000



- 76-                                     ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standardization and Qualitv Assurance
Terms of Reference
Background
1.          In the past, the responsibility for standardization has been
divided between the Hungarian Office for Standardization (HOS) and the various
concerned technical ministries. Standards were largely based on CMEA star.dards
and were generally mandatory.
2.          The transition to a modern market economy requires a restructuring
of the organizational arrangements for standardization in Hungary and a shift
in policy toward a system of voluntary standards; this should materialize in a
new Law on Standards and Accreditation. The association agreement signed with
the EC will also accelerate the trend towards the harmonization of Hungarian
standards with similar EC standards. Furthermore, the need to compete
effectively in Western European markets will require from Hungarian companies
an improvement in internal quality control capabilities, attested by proper
cert'.fication.
3.          The Hungarian Office for Standaidization wishes to prepare itself
better to face this challenge; its resources and equipment are not yet
sufficient to fulfill its new mission in the short-term. Besides, the
industry is itself in a transitional stage as it seeks to privatize and
restructure itself; long-term strategies (e.g. quality assurance) are often
neglected because of short-term concerns, and lack of awareness of the
evolving requirements in these areas.
Objectives
4.          The proposed work would strengthen the capacity cf HOS through the
enhancement of its human resources and supporting equipment base, to: (i)
efficiently collect information related to its activi.ties; (ii) disseminate
that information to the industrial and service sectors; and (iii) become
actively involved in standards harmonization and accreditation.
Method
5.          Th- proposed technical assistance would cover the following
activities:
(a)   Consultant Services
Invitation of a qualified, experienced foreign consultant
from a leading Western standardization agency to audit HOS,
including an evaluation of its resources and needs, to



- 77                                      ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
develop an action plan.
(b)   Information
(i)   Creation of an integrated information system, with
electronic connections to the main international
standardizaticn programs, e.g. ISO, IEC, CEN, and
CENELEC; and
(ii) creation of an information center available to the
industry and the personnel engaged in these fields.
(c)   Training
(i)   Language training; and
(ii)  training of selected staff by recognized Accreditation
Bodies (e.g, training for assessors: accreditation of
laboratories; training for lead auditors; and
assessment of enterprises.)
(d)   Harmonization
Harmonization of standards: accelerated implementation of
200 ISO/IEC, CEN/CENELEC standards;
(e)   Conference
A two-day conference would be organizei for the industry and
the administration on the topic of standardization and
certification in the food industry; leading experts and
major private companies would be invited to participate in
this conference.
Responsible Institution
6.          HOS under the supervision of the President of OMFB, would be in
charge of the implementation of this program.
Timetable
7.          The program would start by January 1993, and is expected to last
about twelve months. The conference would require about three to six months of
preparatory work, and could be organized in the second half of 1993.



- 78 -                                   ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
Estimated Costs
8.          Estimated costs are:
Local       Foreign      Total
-------       Us$ - -----
Foreign consultant                             -         30,000       30,000
Computer hardware and software              10,000       90,000      100,000
Training                                    60,000       40,000      100,000
Harmonization                                  -        200,000      200,000
Conference                                  20,000       20.000       40.000
Total Cost                                  90,000      380,000      470,000



- 79                                      ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision of the Commodity Exchanges
Terms of Reference
Background
1.          The Budapest Commodity Exchange (BCE) was established in 1989 by
banks involved in the financing of agriculture and trading companies, as a
private non-profit company. It started to operate in 1990, once a week. Since
that date, the exchange has served a valuable role in the Hungarian
agricultural economy. Despite its still limited scope of operation, it is an
important price discovery and risk management institution for grains,
livestock and other products; membership has grown from 50 to 200 members, and
trading sessions are organized twice a week. BCE has recently modified its
ownership structure to transfer it to the members, in line with international
practice. Recently, the BCE has announced its intention to extend the scope of
commodities traded to energy products as well.
2.          In the context of the increasingly liberalizing Hungarian economy,
since private investment had earlier been extremely restricted, there is a
risk that certain abusive trading practices could emerge and reduce the
credibility of the market before its hedging purpose is firmly established.
This would have negative consequences not only for commodity exchanges, but
for the market economy as a whole. It is therefore important that the
activities of BCE, as well as future commodity exchanges, be legally defined
and be subject to the supervision of an independent body, as has been the case
for the Budapest Stock Exchange.
3.          In the US, the CFTC is the regulatory agency for futures markets;
in other countries, this supervision is exercised by the same institution that
supervises the Stock Exchange (e.g. COB in France), or by the central bank
(e.g. United Kingdom).
Objectives
4.          Given the lack of relevant experience with commodity exchanges in
Hungary, appropriate foreign assistance would have to be provided in regard
to:
(i)   the definition of an appropi   e legal framework for the
operation of commodity exchanges in Hungary; and,
(ii) the establishment of an independent supervision authority
similar to existing institutions in countries with developed
commodity exchanges.



-80-                                    ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
Method
5.          In its first phase, the proposed technical assistance would
provide the necessary support to the administration which will be in charge of
defining the legal framework for commodity exchanges, i.e. the Ministry of
Finance. A suitably composed mission would be organized to visit Commodity
Exchanges, and to meet with the relevant administrative agencies and
institutions in a limited number of countries (e.g., USA, UK, France) with
well-established similar institutions to evaluate their experience.
6.          The second phase of the technical assistance would consist of the
training of the future staff (about five persons initially) of the Supervisory
Authority. It would comprise:
(i)   training in Budapest;
(ii) training in an appropriate foreign Supervisory body; and
(iii) technical support by a foreign expert during the first three
months of operations.
Ressonsible Institution
7.          The Ministry of Finance will be in charge of implementing the
project.
Tim2table
8.          The project is expected to start in the last quarter of 1992, and
to last approximately one year.
Estimated Costs
9.          Estimated costs are as follows:
Local       Foreig         Total
--- -- --- L-   US$ - - - - - - -
1st phase                  -          50,000       50,000
2nd phase                  -         150,000      150,000
equipment                  Z.         40.000       40.000
Total Cost                           240,000      240,000



- 81-                                                  ANNEX  15
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.      Bank  Supervision  Input:   The  staff  input  indicated  in  the  table below  is
in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports,
etc. estimated at four staff-weeks during the first project year, three staff-
weeks during the following two project years, and two staff-weeks per year
thereafter.
Approximate                                                                 Skill               Staff-
Date                             Activity                            Requirements            Weeks
August/September 1992    SuDervision Mission
- Expedite start-up
- Review implementation of
organizational arrangements and            - Financial Analyst
establishment of key training              - Agroindustry/Product
activites                                    Standardization
- Provide direction to consultants on          Specialist                    6
technical assistance                       - Logistics Specialist
- Review with Working Group on Logistics    - Procurement Specialist
Training progress in establishment of      - Disbursement Specialist
Logistics Promotion Center (LPC)
......................................................................................................... I..........I.......................... ....................I........................................... .......................
March/April 1993          Supervision Mission
- Review NBH and participating banks'        - Financial Analyst
performance in implementation of           - Agroindustry/Product
credit line and banks' training              Standardization               6
component                                    Specialist
- Review with Steering Committee/Project    - Logistics Specialist
Work Unit progress in enabling             - Legal Specialist
environment components                     - Procurement Specialist
- Review progress in logistics-related
training and advisory services
October/November 1993    Suve.vision tIsEion
- R.view progr,is by NBH and                 - Financial Analyst
part'sipating banks' in credit line        - Agroindustry/Product
and banks' training component                Standardization               4
implementation                               Specialist
- Review with Steering Committee/Project    - Logistics Specialist
Work Unit progress in enabling
environment component
- Review with LPC progress in training
and advisory services



- 82 -                                                     ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
Approximate                                                              Skill                    Staff
Date                            Activity                          Requirements                Weeks
March/April 1994             Supervision Mission
- Review with IBH and                  - Financial Analyst
participating banks progress         - Agroindustry/Product                4
in credit line component               Standardization
- Review with Steering                   Specialist
Conmnittee/Project Work Unit         - Logistics Specialist
progress in enabling
environment
- Review with LPC progress in
training advisory services
__-  _.~~~~"_...._.. ~ ........... ................................................................................ ......................................................................................... ..........
October/November 1994        Supervision Mission
- As above
- As above                           4
1995 ....                            Supervision. missions...As.abo.
1995                          -  2 Supervision missions              - As above                            8
1996                          -  2 Supervision missions              - As above                            8
1997                          -  2 Supervision missions              - As above                            8
Marcb 1998                    - 1 Supervision mission (to             -As above                             3
initiate draft PCR)
October/November 1998        Supervision Mission
- 1 Supervision mission (to            - A, above                            2
discuss draft PCR)
2.    Borrower and Implementing Unit's Contribution to Supervision:
(a) During project implementation, NBH would provide the Bank with the
following information in agreed formats semi-annually:
- Lending operations: Commitments and disbursements by each
participating bank
-  Summary indicators of subprojects and subloans approved
-  Progress in training Drogram for banks
- Annually, audit reports on financial statements and on the use of
the Special Account/Statements of Expenditures
(b)  The Project Work Unit (PWU) of the Steering Committee would provide
the following information semi-annually:
- Progress report on activities of the PWU
- Brief reports on progress in the Public Sector Action Program
components, including progress in technical assistance in support
each component



- 83 -
83 -                        ~~~~~~~ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 3
(c) The Working GrouR involved in organization of logistics-related
training and advisory services (and when it is established, the Logistics
Promotion Center) to provide the following information on the progress in:
- Establishment of the LPC
- After the start-up of the LPC, in the activities of the LPC
including programs of awareness creation, and organization of
relevant provision of training and advisory services for entities
in the sector of marketing, trade and distribution.



-84-                                                     ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program Monitoring Indicators
Action Program                                     Monitorable                  Target
Objective/Component                                      Steps                  Dates (by)
(1) Product Safety and Oualitv Control
* Laws on                                                   - prepare drafts/amendments            9/92
- Product Liability and Consumer Protection               - present to Parliament                1/93
- Food
- Animal Health
- Plant Protection
* Harmonization of food regulations with EC
Association Agreement requirements
* Interministerial decree on food safety and quality        - issue decree                         6/93
i Hungarian Codex Alimentarius                              - initiate publication                 6/93
i Quality control and inspection system                     - draft reform plan                    6/93
- start implementation                12/93
(2) Standardization. Accreditation and Quality Assurance
a Law on Standards and Accreditation                        - prepare draft                        9/92
-present to Parliament                1/93
* Clarification of institutional dLstribution of            - prepare a position paper             7/93
responsibilities regarding sta-iardization
* Institutional strengthening of Hingarian Office           - initiate technical                   1/93
for Standardization                                         assistance program
- begin implementation                6/93
(3) Market Information System
* Plan for development of supply/demand and crop            - engage technical assistance          1/93
forecasting system                                       - prepare draft plan                   6/93
- initiate implementation             9/93
(4) Co¢modity Exchange
* Legislative framework for Commodity Exchanges             - engage technical assistance          1/93
- prepare draft law                   6/9'
- pres_nt to Parliament               9/93
* Establish proper supervisory authority                                                            12/93



- 85  -                                                   ANEX  16
Page 2 of 2
Action Program                                    Monitorable                     Target
Objective/Component                                     Steps                         Date
(5) Trade Procedures Simolification
* Harmonization of local standards and               - complete the transition to the             12/93
procedures with EC and international                 Combined Harmonized Nomen-
practices                                            clature
* Standards for Customs documentation                - adopt EC standards                         1/93
* Harmonization of Documents of Origin               - prepare revised documents                  1/93
with EC requirements
* Establishment of national computer                 - prepare draft terms of reference           1/93
network link with customs offices on               - engage technical assistance                4/93
the borders                                        - prepare draft plan                         12/93
(6) Producers and Inter-Professional Organizations
* Strengthen Product Councils                       - provide technical assistance to            1/94
strengthen 6 product councils
(7) Commercial Legislation
a Incorporation of new commercias  practices,        - prepare legislative proposals              1/93
such as factoring, financial leasing and
franchising into Civil Code
e Law on Arbitration                                 - prepare draft                              1/93
- present to Parliament                      6/93
* Audit of regulations applying to domestic          -complete audit                              1/93
trade
(8) Distribution System
* Strengthen telecommunication links                 - carry-out agreements reached           - As agreed
with Bank under the First and            under the
Second Telecommunicatijns               respective
Projects                                projects
(9) Trainina and Businees Services in Lozistics
Management
* Establish and implement appropriate                - establish the organization                 8/92
arrangements for provision of                      - prepare business plan                      11/92
logistics-ralated training and                     - start implementation                       1/93
advisory services.
(Oa) Trainina for Bank Staff and Management
* Strengthen evaluation and supervision             - engage trainers                            8/92
skills of bank staff in respect of                - design programs                            12/92
marketing, trade and distribution                 - start implementation                       1/93
sector projects.



HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pipeline of Potential Investment Projects
Total Financing                                                  Period
Prk/Investment Project                                                            Requiremsnt                  World Bank Subloan             of Implementation
(Ft. million)         (Ft. amllion)      (US0$   W00)
Cmrarcial and CrediL Bmnk
1.  Packaging, warebouing and information asstem for canning factory                  1,117                   893             12.400                1992/93
2. Sales and service center for warehouse operation                                     962                   770             10,695                1992/93
3. Transportation and distribution equipment for larsg  wholesaler                      625                   500              6.945                1992/94
4.  Packaging. warebousing and information syste  for sugar factory                      575                  460              6.390                1992/93
5. Warehouse with freezer and cold storage facility                                     437                   350              4,860                l992/93
6. Warehouse with modern transportation and marketing system                            375                   300              4.165                1992/93
7. Packaging aachines and transportation equipsent for sugar factory                    337                   270              3,750                1992/93
8.  Supermarket with cold storage facility                                              313                   250              3,470                1992/93
9. Market hall for food and other general consumer goods                                300                   240              3,350                1992/93
10. Tranm  ortation and information system for wholesaler of agricultural goods         250                   200              2.750                1992/94
Total esti.ated demand (including other subprojects)                                                        5.976             83,000
&ungarian Credit Bank
1. Development of river port facility                                                   300                   210              2.915               1992/94                  1
2. Warehouse. including state-of-the-art inventory, management system                    550                  200              2.780                1992/94                 o
3. Establishment of retail shops for food processing enterprise                         I50                   150              2.085                1992/93                 0%
4.  Packaging equipment for food processing enterprise                                   60                    50                695                1992/93                 1
5. Packaging equipment for exporting food processing enterprise                          50                    40                555                1992/93
Total estimated demand (including other subprojects)                                                        2.398             33,300
Budawest Bank Ltd.
1. Wkolesale market for food and othet consumer goods                                   100                    60                835                1992/93
2.  Packaging and cold storage facilities                                                53                    30                415                1992/93
3. Cash & carry market                                                                   48                    20                278                1992/93
Total estimated demand (includinA other subprojects)                                                          864             12.000
Ratial Savings Bank                                                                                         1.440             20,000
Ibrobank                                                                                                    1.296             18,000
ukrobant                                                                                                    1.080             15,000
Industrial Delonment Bank                                                                                     720             10.000
General Bank for Venture Financin*                                                                            432              6,000
Investban                                                                                                  _  216              3.000
TOTAL                                                                                                  14,422           200,300
Sorc___f_atonprvde_b_tepatiipt-_ngbans_nd_ntep_-_s.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Source: Information provided by the participating banks and ent-rpriases 
b*wrwre m-^> xa                                                                       .                                        O U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 87 -                                    ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 12
HUNGAR
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sample Investment Projects
Introduction
1.       The proposed project would provide medium- and long-term credit to
eligible beneficiaries to finance investments relating to their marketing,
trade and distribution activities that would improve the flow of general
consumer goods (defined as goods that are typically sold in supermarkets,
department stores, convenience stores and hardware stores.) Eligible
activities to be financed under the project would include, for example,
packaging of goods, product handling and storage, product transportation,
automation of operations, and improvements in management systems, including
inventory control and cost accounting. The subprojects would help in
introducing more efficient technology, improved management and economies of
scale. An indication of some of the types of subprojects to be supported
under the project is given by the following cases provided by commercial banks
that are interested in participating in the proposed Loan. The banks have
evaluated the sample investment projects at market prices prevailing at the
time of appraisal. Financial rates of return (FRRs) have been estimated
taking into account the expected economic amortization period of investments,
ranging batween 10 and 15 years. Under these assumptions, FRRs range from 16%
to 44%. Brief descriptions of nine potential investment projects including
tables with financial analysis are presented below.
Potential Investment Proiects
2.       Consumer Electronics Discount Store.  An existing commercial
enterprise dealing with wholesale and retail sales of technical consumer gooc's
(i.e. household appliances, consumer electronics and telecommunication
equipment) intends to expand its activities in Budapest by building a new
discount store covering a sales area of 5,000 square meters. Complementary
services for customers would be offered such as repairing and servicing of
electric appliances. The investment would include the purchase of modern
equipment for product handling, packaging and stGrage such as packaging
machines and data processing equipment (i.e. state-of-the art barcoding and
inventory control system), accounting for one third of total project cost of
Ft. 713 million (US$9.4 million equivalent). Eighty percent including of the
investment would be financed through bank credit with 5 years maturity and one
year of grace, with the remaining portion being financed througn the company's
equity. The estimated FRR is about 44% (Table 1).
3.       Small DeRartment Store.  This project deals with the establishment of
X. new department store in suburban Budapest selling food (36% of sales
revenues), clothing (18%) and mixed general consumer goods (46%). A new
building would be constructed, cons'sting of two floors and a total sales area
of 2,500 square meters, with food items sold on the first floor and other
goods sold on the second level. Two thirds of the total start-up cost of Ft.
71.5 million (US$950,000 equivalent) would comprise the investment cost for
construction of the building, pavement and parking lots and another 23% of
total cost would be for initial working capital needs. Commercial bank



- 88 -                                   AEX 18
Page 2 of 12
financing would cover 80% of total project cost with five years maturity,
including one year of grace, equity would finance the remaining start-up cost.
The estimated FRR is about 29% (Table 2).
4.       Fresh Produce Packin2 and Cold Storage Facility.  In the south of
Hungary, a group of private farmers plans to build jointly a facility for
collecting, packaging and storing fresh fruits and vegetables. In addition to
supplying their own fresh produce, the owners of  A',e facility would purchase
agricultural output from other producers in the area, to be processed and sold
on wholesale markets. The facility would include areas for pre-sorting and
packaging of fruits and vegetables, a medium-size cooling house with a deep-
freezing section, storage room for packaging material, and necessary parking
space and road connections. It is expected that the quantity of fresh produce
processed yearly would rise from 8,750 tons in the first year to a full
capacity of 28,800 tons in the third year of operations. After processing, a
net output of 23,000 tons would be sold yearly at full capacity. Agricultural
produce would account for 95% of variable input cost, p&ckaging material for
most of the remaining 5% of input cost. Total estimated investment for the
first two years is Ft. 716 million (US$9.5 million equivalent), 75% of which
would be financed under a commercial bank loan of 5 years maturity. The
estimated FRR is about 34% (Table 3).
5.       Two Food Discount Stores.  A comme_ial bank branch which is located
in a medium-size and growing city of 50,000 inhabitants in western Hungary has
received two independent loan applications for financing the construction of
food discount stores. The stores would be located at opposing ends of the
city, with neither comparable nor adequate shopping facilities existing in the
region. Both stores would supply basic food items including beverages and
fresh fruit and vegetables. They would be located next to major road
intersections, and would offer good access and ample parking space. The
larger store would cover a total sales area of 785 square meters. l-otal
investment cost is estimated at Ft.15.6 million (US$206,000 equivalent) of
which 80% would be covered by commercial bank finance with 5 years maturity,
including one year of grace. The FRR is estimated at about 17% (Table 4).
The second and smaller store would comprise a sales area of 500 square meters
with an option of doubling that area in the future. Estimated start-up cost
for investment would be a total of Ft.14.4 million (US$191,000 equivalent),
80% of.which would be provided through commercial bank finance with 5 years
maturity, including one year of grace. The estimated FRR is about 31% (Table
5).
6.       ExRansion of Activities of Textiles Wholesaler.  A medium-size
manufacturing and trading enterprise in suburban Budapest intends to expand
its commercial activities. In addition to its own production, the firm
purchases textiles from domestic and international sources. It supplies
department stores in major urban areas of Hungary. Presently, the enterprise
employs 500 persons. In order to expand its trading activities, the
enterprise plans to invest a total of Ft.15 million (US$200,000 equivalent) to
construct additional storage facilities, purchase new product handling
equipment, and install a modern inventory control system. Eighty percent of
the investment would be covered by commercial bank credit with 5 years
maturity, including one year of grace. The estimated FRR is about 42% (Table
6).



-89 -                                    ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 12
7.       Expansion of Activities of Computer Eguipment Wholesaler.  The
enterprise in question is a Budapest-based trading company specialized in
wholesale sales of personal computers and associated hardware. The firm also
engages in the production of small quantities of data processing equipment and
employs a total staff of 150. It has successfully completed the transition
from a cooperative entity into a private-sector joint-stock company. An
expansion of its production and commercial activities requires substantial
investment in order to construct a new building for storage of intermediate
inputs and finished goods, and to introduce a sophisticated inventory
management system. Total estimated investment is Ft. 180 million (US$2.4
million equivalent) of which 80% would be covered by commercial bank finance,
with 5 years maturity, including one year of grace. The estimated FRR is
about 16% (Table 7).
8.       Fruits and Vegetables Who]esale Market.  This project aims at
improving the flow of fresh produce from farmers to final consumers. It
involves the construction of a wholesale market for fruits and vegetables in
southern Hungary. Private small-scale farmers account for about two-thirds of
fresh produce production in the country; however, there is a serious lack of
efficient agricultural marketing channels, thus forcing farmers to transport
their output to distant urban markets. The proposed investment project would
be located within a region where the agricultural processing industry absorbs
about 360,000 tons of vegetables and 100,000 tons of fruits per year.
Producers sell further 300,000 tons of vegetables and 100,000 tons of fru!ts
per year in regional markets. The wholesale market would have a total
capacity of about 250,000 tons per year on a total area of about 110,000
square meters. It would include a large market center (11,700 square meters)
with stands for private farmers and a processing center with processing lines
(for sorting and packing), and cold storage facilities. A major share of the
start-up cost would be covered by a credit at concessional terms backed by a
western European Government, leaving about 39% of the total investment cost of
Ft. 1,639 million (US$21.7 million) to be financed locally at commercial bank
terms with 5 years maturity, one year of grace. The estimated FRR is about 16%
(Table 8).
9.       Cold Storage Facility for Fruits and Vegetables.  Located in suburban
Budapest, a recently privatized medium-size agroprocessing plant with 120
employees intends to rebuild, modernize and expand its cold storage
facilities. The firm purchases fruits and vegetables from farms in the
greater Budapest region and sells processed fresh produce to wholesalers and
large retail _ompanies. The additional cold storage room would cover a total
area of 300 square meters, and total estimatel investment would amount to Ft.
70 million (US$927,000 equivalent), 80% of whicl would be financed through
commercial bank loans, with 5 years of maturity, including one year of grace.
The estimated FRR is about 43% (Table 9).



90-ANNEX 18
Page 4 of 12
Table 1: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS DISCOUNT STORE
Financial Analysis
(Ft million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
Sales Revenues                          600      1281      1352      1378      1406
OUTFLOWS
Investment                    513       200
Wages                                     90      172       175       177       182
Other Operating Cost                    346       803       811       816       820
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING               -513     -36       306       366       385       404
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         44X
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan (80X)            570
Disbursement                    400       170
Repayment Principal               0       143       143       143      143
End of Year Debt                400       428      285       143         0
Interest (101 p.a.)              20        41       36        21         7
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                -133       -50       128      202       235       404
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After F'Wnancing               -133       -50       128       202      235       404
Equity Contribution             113        30
Cash Flow                       -20       -20       128      202       235       404
Accumulated Cash Flow           -20       -40        88      290       525       929



-  91 -                                                    ANEX  18
Page 5 of 12
HUNGAR
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMEN! PROJECT
Table 2: SMALL DEPARTMENT STORE
Financial Analvsis
(Ft. '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
INFLOWS
Sales Revenues              200000   240000   240000   240000   240000
OUTFLOWS
Investment                   55000
Purcbase of Merchandise    16500   151800   180400   180400   180400   180400
Wages                                   9600      9600     9600      9600      9600
Other Operating CoSt                   24000    24000    24000    24000    24000
NET BENEFIT
BZEFRE FINANCING            -71500    14600    26000    26000    26000    26000
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN        29S
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan (801)         57200
Disbursement                 57200
Repayment PrincipaL              0    14300    14300    14300    14300
End of Year Debt             57200    42900    28600    14300           0
Interest (101 p.a.)           2860      5005     3575      2145       715
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING             -17160    -4705       8125     9555    10985    26000
CASH FO
Net Benefit
After Financing             -17160    -4705       8125     9555    10985    26000
Equity Contribution          14300
Cash Flow                    -2860    -4705       8125     9555    10985    26000
Accumulated Cash Flow        -2860    -7565        560    10115    21100    47100



- 92-                                                      ANNEX 18
Page 6 of 12
HUNGAR
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: FRESH PRODUCE PACKING AND COLD STORAGE FACILITY
Financial Analysis
(Ft. million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
INFLOWS
Sales Revenues                  437       917     1434      1434      1434      1434
OUTFLOWS
Investment                      482      234
Purchase of Inputs              250       542      8S1       861       861       861
Wages                           105       130       140       140      140       140
Other Operating Cost             95       120       141       141      141       141
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING               -495      -109       292      292       292       292
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         34Z
FINANC'NG PLAN
Long-Term Loan (752)            537
Disbursement                    400       137
Repayment Principal              8O       114       114       114       114
End of Year Debt                320       343       229       114         0
Interest (10  p.s.)             16        33       29        17         6
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                -191      -119       149       161       172      292
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                -191      -119       149       161       172      292
Equity Contribution              82        97
Cash Flow                      -109       -22       149       161      172       292
Accumulated Cash Flow          -109    -1311         18       178      350       842



93                                                      ANNEX  18
Page 7 of 12
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: FOOD DISCOUNT STORE (IM
Financial Analysis
(Ft. '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
INFLOWS
Sales Revenues                         54000   120000   140000   160000   185000
OUTFLOWS
Investment                  15554
Wages                                    1300     2700      3000      3500      3800
Other Operating Cost                   51700   114000   133730   153240   177820
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING            -15554       1000     3300      3270      3260      3380
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         17X
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan (80X)          12443
Disbursement                  12443
Repayment Principal               0      3111     3111      3111      3110
End of Year Debt              12443     9332      6221      3110          0
Interest (10  p.a.)            622     1089       778       467       156
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING               -3733    -3200      -589      -307         -6     3380
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing               -3733    -3200      -589      -307        -6      3380
Equity Contribution            3111
Cash Flow                      -622    -3200      -589      -307        -6      3380
Accumulated Cash Flow          -622    -3822    -4410    -4718        -4724   -1344



-94-                                                       ANNEX 18
Page 8 of 12
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: FOOD DISCOUNT STORE (II)
Financial Analysis
(Ft. '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
INFLOWS
Sales Revenues                         90000   110000   110000   130000   130000
OUTFLOWS
Investment                   14437
Wages                                   1200      1400      1400     1800      1800
Other Operating Cost                   84800   104000   103800   122600   122600
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING            -14437      4000      4600     4800      5600      5600
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN        31X
FINANCING PLA
Long-Term Loan (80X)         11550
Disbursement                 11550
Repayment Principal               0     2887      2887      2887     2887
End of Year Debt             11550      8662      5772     2887         0
Interest (1OS p.a.)            577      1011       722      433       144
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING              -3465       102       991      1479     2568      5600
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing              -3465       102       991      147C     2568      5600
Equity Contribution           2887
Cash Flow                     -557       102       991      1479     2568      5600
Accumulated Cash Flow         -557      -475       515      1b95     4563    10163



- 95 -                                                      ANNEX 18
Page 9 of 12
HUNGAR
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6: EXPANSION OF ACTIVITIES OF TEXTILES WHOLESALER
Financial Analvsis
(Ft. '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
INFLOWS
Sales Revenues                          17800    35600    51400    51400    51400
OUITLOW
Investment                   10500      4500
Wages                                   10400    20800    34800    34800    34800
Other Operating Cost                     7200     7200      750      7500      7500
NET BENEFIT
BEFMRE FINANCING            -10500    -4300       7600      9100      9100      9100
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         42Z
ZINANCING PLNM
LonS-Term Loan (801)          12000
Disbursement                  10000     2000
Repayment Principal               0      3000     3000      3000      3000
End of Year Debt              10000      9000     6000      3000          0
Interest (101 p.a.)            500       950       750       450       150
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING               -1000    -6250      3850      5650      5950      9100
Net Benefit
After Financing               -1000    -6250      3850      5650      5950      9100
Equity Contribution             500     2500
Cash Flow                      -500    -3750      3850      5650      5950      9100
Accumulated Cash Flow          -500    -4250               -400      5250    11200    20300



- 96 -                                                    ANNEX 18
Page 10 of 12
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7: EXPANSION OF ACTIVITIES OF COMPUTER EOUIPMENT WHOLESALER
Financial Analysis
(Ft. '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
INFLOWS
Sales Revenues                         30000    50000    90000   130000   150000
QUTFLOWS
Investment                  165200    15000
Wages                                    4500      5000     5500      6500      7500
Other Operating Coat                    16500    27500    49500    7150.^   82500
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING           -165200    -6000    17500    35000    52000    60000
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         16t
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan (802)        144160
Disbursement                144160
Repayment Principal               0    36040    36040    36040    36040
End of Year Debt             144160   108120    72080    36040            0
Interest (102 p.s.)            7208    12614      9010      5406      1802
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING              -28248   -54654   -27550    -6446    14158    60000
CASH FO
Net Benefit
After Financing             -28248   -54654   -27550    -6446    14158    60000
Equity Contribution          21040    15000
Cash Flow                     -7208   -39654   -27550    -6446    14158    60000
Accumulated Cash Flow         -7208   -46862   -74412   -80858   -66700    -6700



-97                                                        ANNEX 18
Page 11 of 12
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8: FRUITS AND VEGETABLES WHOLESALE MARKET
Financial Analysis
(Ft. million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
INFLOWS
Sales Revenues                            212       442       532       640       640
OUTFLOWS
Investment
Wages                                      44        44        44         44        44
Other Operating Cost                      123       174       174       205       205
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING              -1639        45       224       314       391        391
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN         16X
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan (391)            639
Disbursement                    639
Repayment Principal                0      160       160        160       160
End of Year Debt                639       479       320       160          0
Interest (10X p.a.)              32        56        40        24         8
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING               -1031      -171        25        13'      223        391
CASHFLO
Net Benefit
After Financing               -1031      -171        25       130       223        391
Equity and Other Contrib.       999         0
Cash Flow                       -32      -171        25       130       223        391
Accumulated Cash Flow           -32      -203      -178       -48        176       567



98                                                       ANNEX 18
Page 12 of 12
HUNGARY
PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9: COLD STORAGE FACILITY FOR FRUITS AND VEGETABLES
Financial Analysis
(Ft. '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6+
INFLOWS
Sales Revenues                -nnno   120500   120500   120500   120500   120500
OUTFLOWS
Investment                    7C000
Wages                           8000    18000    18000    18000    18000    18000
Other Operating Cost          37000    72000    72000    72000    77000    77000
NET BENI.EFIT
BEFORE FINANCING             -65000    30500    30500    30500    25500    25500
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN          43%
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan (80%)          56000
Disbursement                  56000
Repayment Principal                0    14000    14000    14000    14000
End of Year Debt              56000    42000    28000    14000             0
Interest (10% p.a.)            2800      4900       3500      2100       700
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING              -11800      11600    13000    14400    10800    25500
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing              -11800    11600    13000    14400    10800    25500
Equity Contribution           14000
Cash Flow                      2200    11600    13000    14400    10800    25500
Accumulated Cash Flow          2200    13800    26800    41200    52000    77500



