; OFFICIM
DCUM!ENTS        CREDIT NUMBER 1104 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Road Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1104 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      '2CL,-"/,   / /       , 1981, between
the REPUBLIC OF MALI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower expects to receive from Switzerland a
non-reimbursable contribution (hereinafter called the Swiss
Contribution) in an amount of eighteen million Swiss Francs,
also to assist in financing such Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Swiss-Malian Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and Switzerland;
(C) Switzerland and the Association have agreed by exchange
of letters of even date herewith that subject to the rights
reserved by Switzerland under the Swiss-Malian Agreement, the
proceeds of the Swiss Contribution will be disbursed on instruc-
tion by the Association acting on behalf of Switzerland pursuant
to the procedures set forth in Article III of this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Directorate" means the National Directorate of Public
Works of the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Public Works;
(b) "Equipment Service" means the Public Works Equipment
Service, an agency of the Directorate;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d) "Training Center" means the Centre de Perfectionnement
des Transports et des Travaux Publics, an agency of the Borrower's
Ministry of Transport and Public Works; and
(e) "Swiss Account" means the account established by
Switzerland under the Swiss-Malian Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 13,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1991, and ending
January 1, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.0/. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Swiss Contribution
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
Swiss-Malian Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount
of the Swiss Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and the Swiss Account, respectively, in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Article and with the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time
to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further
agreement between the, Borrower, Switzerland and the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, cause the Directorate to open a Special Account in the
Development Bank of Mali on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Payments out of the Special Account shall be
made exclusively to pay the costs of goods and services required
to carry out the Project and to be financed under this Agreement
and under the Swiss-Malian Agreement; provided, however, that
under Category (7) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, only the cost of imported spare
parts and supplies for equipment maintenance, construction
materials and replacement equipment shall be eligible for payments
out of the Special Account.


﻿-4-
(b) The Association shall, as of the Effective Date, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account, shall
request a disbursement from the Swiss Account and shall deposit in
the Special Account a total initial amount in the currency of the
Borrower equivalent to SDR 400,000 plus SwF 530,000, as provided
in Category 8 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
of this Agreement. Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower,
the Association on behalf of the Borrower shall further withdraw
from the Credit Account, request disbursement from the Swiss
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal
to payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures for
the Project eligible for financing under this Agreement and the
Swiss-Malian Agreement, but only to the extent that the amount
of any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of SDR 400,000 plus SwF
530,000. Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise
determine, each such deposit after the initial deposit shall be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and from the Swiss Account under
the same Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the same respective amounts,
as have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposits furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section.
(c) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit into the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association in respect of each payment out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association or
Switzerland shall reasonably request, showing that such payment
was made to pay the reasonable cost of goods or services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Coutribution in accordance with Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
(d) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the
Credit Account or the Swiss Account; or (ii) was not justified by
the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit in the Special Account, deposit in the Special Account or
refund to the Association and to Switzerland an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or of the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.


﻿-5-
(e) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (b) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
when the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower from the Credit
Account and from the Swiss Account under Section 3.04 of this
Agreement or when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the Swiss Account, plus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent
of SDR 13,000,000 plus SwF 17,470,000, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Swiss Account of
the remaining amounts of the Credit and of the Swiss Contribution
for the Project shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association and shall be made only to
the extent that the Association shall be satisfied by the evidence
submitted in support of the applications for such withdrawals that
all payments by the Borrower out of the Special Account and out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Swiss Contribution were made
on account of the reasonable cost of goods or servi.es required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution in accordancett with Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to make
direct withdrawals from the Credit Account and from the Swiss
Account for expenditures made (or, if Switzerland and the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution.
(b) When the Borrower shall desire directly to withdraw any
amount of the Credit or of the Swiss Contribution, the Borrower
shall deliver to the Association a written application in such
form and containing such statements and agreements as the Associa-
tion or Switzerland shall reasonably request. Applications for
withdrawal, with the necessary documentation as hereinafter
provided shall, except as the Borrower, Switzerland and the
Association shall otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation to
expenditures for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as
Switzerland or the Association shall reasonably request, whether


﻿- 6 -
before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(d) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy Switzerland and the Association that the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each application by the Borrower for replenish-
ment of the Special Account or for direct withdrawal shall be
deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from both the Credit
Account and the Swiss Account, and the funds to be withdrawn
pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by the Associa-
tion, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances, between the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution in the ratio of 63:37, or such
other ratio as shall be agreed between Switzerland and the
Association.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for replenishment of the Special
Account or for direct withdrawal, the Association shall:
(i) deposit into the Special Account, or pay to or on
the order of the Borrower, as the case may be, the
amount, if any, to which the Borrower is entitled
from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement;
and
(ii) promptly, on behalf of Switzerland, notify the
holder of the Swiss Account that it has received
such application for replenishment or withdrawal
from the Swiss Account in the aggregate amount
specified in such notice, that it has approved the
payment or deposit of the portion, if any, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in the amount set
forth in such notice, and that the portion to be
withdrawn from the Swiss Account in the amount
set forth in such notice is eligible for payment or
deposit into the Special Account by Switzerland,
and instruct such holder to make such payment or
deposit.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or of
the Swiss Contribution shall have been fully withdrawn or can-
celled, any application by the Borrower for further replenishment
of the Special Account or for direct withdrawal shall be deemed
to be a request for withdrawal of the full amount applied for
from the Credit Account or the Swiss Account only, as the case
may be, and the provisions of this Article III, except for Section
3.04 hereof, shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the
full amount credited to such remaining Account shall have been
withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of Switzerland,
enter into special commitments to pay amounts out of the proceeds
of the Swiss Contribution in respect of the cost of goods required
by the Project, subject to the provisions of this Agreement
concerning the allocation and apportionment of the proceeds of the
Swiss Contribution. Switzerland has agreed with the Association
that any such special commitment shall, once it has been notified
to Switzerland, constitute an obligation on the part of Switzer-
land to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or
cancellation of the Swiss Contribution, the amount to be
disbursed out of the Swiss Account in fulfillment of such special
commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as Switzerland and the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall: (i) provide such minimum allocations for routine road
maintenance as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the


﻿-8-
Association; and (ii) furnish to the Association for its comments
by October 31 of each year the proposed budget for routine road
maintenance for the following year.
(c) The Borrower and the Association shall exchange views
annually on the Borrowers' program for investments in the highways
sector with a view to determining the impact of such investments
on available resources.
Section 4.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall establish within the Dirictorate
by May 31, 1981, a Project Coordinating Unit and shall employ such
consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Swiss
Contribution against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Swiss Contribution shall be used exclusively for the
Project until its completion.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Swiss Contribution, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of


﻿-9-
the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Swiss
Contribution and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
.   Section 4.05. In connection with Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall review with the Association every six months
beginning in January, 1982, the output of the bituminous brigade
of the Borrower working on such Part B. Should such output fall
below current estimates agreed by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the use of contractors in the carrying out of such Part
of the Project will be increased as necessary.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
by October 31 of each year for its comments a detailed work
program of periodic road maintenance.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on the requirements for expert services in the carry-
ing out of Part C of the Project and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion by January 31, 1982 an assessment of such requirements.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause the data collection
unit established under Part E of the Project to collect and


﻿- 10 -
analyse transport data and to prepare annually and furnish to the
Association a report of its activities.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) all operations
and accounts with respect to the Project be kept separate from
the other operations and accounts of the Borrower's Ministry
of Transport and Public Works; and (ii) that the Directorate
retain, until two years after the Closing Date, all records
(orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures for the Project on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account or from the Swiss Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures and enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (a)  have the accounts in
respect of periodic maintenance under the Project, the Special
Account and the accounts of the Road Fund related to maintenance
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than three months after the end of
each such year, the report of such audits by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, separate opinions by said auditors: (i) on the periodic
maintenance accounts referred to in Section 5.02 (a) of this
Agreement; (ii) on the Special Account; (iii) on the accounts of
the Road Fund related to maintenance; and (iv) in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the Swiss Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure were used to make payments for goods


﻿- 11 -
received, or works or services performed, and that such goods,
works and services were eligible for financing under this Agree-
ment and were used in the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements with respect
to the Project and the audits thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall collect and record in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures
such data as are required to assess the technical, economic and
financial aspects of the Borrower's road network for the proper
planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall cause its road network
and its road maintenance equipment to be adequately maintained and
shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering and economic
standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources for the foregoing.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps
to ensure that the dimensions and axleloads of vehicles using
the Borrower's road system are consistent with the structural
and geometric design standards of the roads used.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Swiss Contribution shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the Swiss-Malian Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
(a) the Special Account has been opened; and
(b) the Swiss-Malian Agreement has become effective, or
will become effective simultaneously with the effectiveness of
this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
V of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister responsible for finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        972-559
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of
the Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of the    Swiss Contri-
Credit Allocated  bution Allocated     % of
(Expressed in     (Expressed in    Expenditures
Category     SDR Equivalent)    Swiss Francs) to be Financed
(1) Equipment,       2,860,000        3,900,000     100%
tools, fur-
niture and
spare parts
(2) Building and       140,000          280,000     84%
workshop
construction
and improve-
ment
(3) Periodic
road mainte-
nance works
(a) by con-     1,880,000        2,500,000     84%
tractors
(b) by force    1,800,000        2,400,000     90%
account
(exclud-
ing de-
precia-
tion)
(4) Consul-
tants'            610,000          830,000     100%
services;
auditors


﻿- 15 -
Amount of
Amount of the      Swiss Contri-
Credit Allocated  bution Allocated      % of
(Expressed in     (Expressed in    Expenditures
Category     SDR Equivalent)    Swiss Francs) to be Financed
(5) Field expend-       30,000           40,000     96%
itures of
the Training
Center's
instructors
and monitors
(6) Fellowships        100,000          150,000     100%
(7) Recurrent        3,050,000        4,100,000     40% prior to
costs of                                       January 1,
routine                                        1982, 30%
maintenance                                    during 1982
and 25%
thereafter
(8) Initial            400,000          530,000
deposit in
Special
Account
(9) Unallocated      2,530,000        3,270,000
TOTALS    13,400,000       18,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and of Switzerland
that no proceeds of the Credit or of the Swiss Contribution shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the im-
portation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the
Swiss Contribution decreases or increases, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item as required to be con-
sistent with the aforementioned policies of the Association and
Switzerland.


﻿- 16 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
of the Swiss Contribution or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or of the Swiss
Contribution then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or of the Swiss
Contribution which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or of the Swiss Contribution and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement or of Switzerland under the Swiss-Malian Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of
the Swiss Contribution as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit or of the Swiss Contribution.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to improve road maintenance
in Mali over the period from 1981 to 1983 and to improve the means
for ensuring the availability of funds for such maintenance. The
Project includes the following:
Part A:   Executing routine maintenance works on about 6,600 km
of national, regional and feeder roads under a two and
one-half year program (1981-1983).
Part B:   Executing periodic maintenance of about 680 km of
bituminous roads as indicated in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement and about 220 km of gravel roads following the
standards set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Part C:   Strengthening the maintenance capacity of the Equipment
Service by: (i) overhauling equipment and procurement of
additional equipment; (ii) making improvements in its
central workshop; and (iii) providing training and
fellowships for its personnel.
Part D:   Strengthening the operation of the Training Center,
including the expansion of its facilities and the
provision of fellowships for road maintenance personnel.
Part E:   Establishing and maintaining a transport data collection
unit within the National Transport Office of the
Ministry of Transport and Public Works.
Part F:   Carrying out a program of control of truck axle loads
through the procurement and use of four portable scales.
Part G:   Updating the engineering and economic studies of the
Bamako-Bougouni road.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids. The costs to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
B.   Procurement for Equipment Service and Training Center
Prior to any construction or purchase of goods for the
Equipment Service included in Part C of the Project or for


﻿- 19 -
the training program included in Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval a
description of the proposed facilities and of the furniture,
equipment and vehicles to be procured.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   With the exception of those items referred to in paragraph
2 of this part, contracts for goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $50,000 may be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures; provided, however, that unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, the aggregate amount of the
contracts for spare parts so awarded shall not exceed $1,500,000.
2.   Contracts for fuel, bitumen, cement and other construction
materials for periodic maintenance may be awarded on the basis of
the Borrower's standard procurement procedures for such items,
and contracts for the purchase of proprietary spare parts avail-
able only from the manufacturer of the principal equipment or
its sales agents may be negotiated with the suppliers thereof,
provided that the aggregate value of contracts for such spare
parts shall not, unless otherwise agreed by the Association,
exceed $1,000,000.
3.   Contracts for the construction or improvement of buildings
or workshops and contracts for civil works for periodic main-
tenance of roads may be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all purchases estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 20 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, where appro-
priate by the consultants referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of the said con-
sultants, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   Contracts to be awarded which are of a value of less than
the equivalent of $50,000 but more than the equivalent of $7,500
shall be subject to the procedures described in paragraphs D.1
(b), (c) and (d) above.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Periodic maintenance of bituminous and gravelled roads may be
undertaken by force account by the Borrower.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Periodic Maintenance of Bituminous Roads
Single Surface        Double Surface
Total           Patching               Seal Coat              Treatment             Treatment
Length     F.A.    Contractor     F.A.   Contractor     F.A.    Contractor     F.A.    Contractor
(km)             (m2)                    (km)                 (km)                   (km)
1. Sikasso-Zegouai          100      -           -           17.0       -           16.7       -           -         -
2. Sikasso-Bagoe           105       -           -            -         -           30.0       -          2.5        -
3. Bagoe-Bougouni          108      6,000        -           16.8       -           60.0       -          1.2        -
4. Segou-Bla                 76      -         57,000         -        15.8           -       23.5         -        1.9
5. Segou-Markala             35      -          2,650         -        34.0           -        0.2         -        0.1
6. Bla-Koutiala             79       -          1,850         -        30.0           -       46.0         -        2.6
7. Koutiala-Faramana        106      -           -            -       100.0           -        5.9         -         -
8. Bamako-Kati               15    15,100        -           15.0       -             -        -           -
9. Bamako-Koulikoro         57      7,550        -           47.0       -           10.0       -           -         -
681     28,650      61,500        95.8    179.8        116.7      75.6        3.7       4.6
10. Regravelling of shoulders: 80,000 m3 by force account.
1/ Works started under the Third Highway Project.
F.A. = Force Account.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards for Road Regravelling
Clearing    Roadway    Gravel Base
Road                  Length    Width       Width      Thickness
(km)       (M)         (M)         (cm)
Bamako-Kangaba          90         12.0     6.0            18
Koulikoro-Banamba       90         10.0      5.0           15
Fana-Dioila             40         10.0      5.0           15


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of A
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


