Report No. PID9659
Project Name                     China-Tuberculosis Control Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Primary Health; Including Reproductive
Health; Chi
Project ID                       CNPE71147
Borrower(s)                      CHINA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Ministry of Health
Address: 154 GuLou XiDa Jie,
Xi Cheng District, Beijing 100009,
China
Contact Person: Dr. Cai Jiming,
Deputy Director, Foreign Loan Office,
Ministry of Health
Tel: (86-10) 8404-5750
Fax: (86-10) 8404-5749
Email: flomoh@public.bta.net.cn
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                August 9, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         August 22, 2001
Projected Board Date             December 20, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues2.1 Unfinished Agenda. Despite remarkable improvements
in overall health status in the past decades, China's health services
remain inadequate and regional disparities are very wide. A significant
proportion of the country's population still lacks satisfactory provision
of basic health care, and access to health care is inequitable and often
unaffordable for many poor communities. Consequently, health status
varies greatly among geographical areas and income groups. For example,
while the national maternal mortality ratio was 61.9 per 100,000 live
births in 1996, Guizhou and Xinjiang reported rates of 262.3 and 462.8,
respectively. China's per capita total public and private health spending
was RMB 110 in 1993, but rural spending was RMB 60 per capita compared to
RMB 235 in urban areas.     2.2  Tuberculosis tops the list of infectious
causes of death in China, with over 400 million persons estimated to be
infected, including five million persons with the active disease, and
150,000 persons dieing from the disease. Each year, 1.3 million
additional persons develop active TB. The rate of TB in impoverished
rural areas is nearly three times higher than in economically developed
urban areas. This is attributed to poor living conditions, insufficient
financial resources to pay for health care, reduced access to health
services, and lack of knowledge about TB. As poverty facilitates the
spread of TB, it also contributes to the cycle of poverty for many in
China. Physical disease and economic hardship form a self-perpetuating
vicious cycle.2.3 Financing Health Care. Health financing in China has
shifted from a collective or centralized system to a more decentralized



approach. The percentage of government funds used for public health
services has decreased, while charges and user fees have become
increasingly common as sources of income for health care workers and
facilities. The impact of this shift has been especially problematic for
TB control as market failures lead to increased public health risks.
Tuberculosis, which disproportionately affects the poorest populations,
thwarts poverty alleviation goals. 2.4 In areas without special funding
programs, cost recovery and user charges have lead to disincentives for
patients to seek care and to continue to complete cure, thereby increasing
risks of transmission and death and development of drug resistance. The
providers have also disincentives to treat as the patients are not always
important sources of income although doctors have been charging patients
for TB diagnosis, drugs and services wherever possible. Public health
facilities lack equipment or resources to perform activities like sputum
microscopy, and supervision of village doctors, along with training or
surveillance activities, are poorly conducted, if at all. Parts of China
are already facing some of the highest rates of multidrug-resistant (MDR)
TB in the world because of poorly managed TB control programs, as either
patients do not take their drugs regularly or the drug supply is
interrupted. MDR-TB poses one of the gravest risks to the control of TB.
It also costs more than 100 times to treat and, even then, only 60 percent
of patients are cured as compared to 95 percent with non-drug resistant TB
under proper patient management. 2.5 New Challenges. Rapid economic
growth, reform measures, growing openness, and the country's
epidemiological transitions have brought new health problems, including a
major increase in chronic diseases, the emergence of HIV/AIDS infections,
and reemergence of sexually transmitted diseases. Currently, more than 1
million persons are estimated to be infected with HIV and this number will
increase. Overall, one-third of those with HIV/AIDS will die from TB. By
pursuing HIV prevention and by implementing an effective TB control
program, China can minimize the impact of HIV-associated TB and improve
the care of those with HIV/AIDS.Government Strategy2.6 The Government has
made efforts to complete the unfinished tasks and respond to newer
challenges. Practically, all ten World Bank assisted health projects
address these old and new challenges. Recent emphasis on accelerated
development of poorest inland provinces is expected to provide a further
boost toward these goals. To control tuberculosis, the government has
taken significant steps since 1990. Their efforts have included the
implementation of two large TB control projects utilizing the
WHO-advocated directly observed treatment, short-course (DOTS) strategy.
The first major project was the Bank-financed Infectious and Endemic
Disease Control (IEDC) Project (Cr. 2317-CHA), which was approved in
December 1991 and covers 13 of China's current 31 provinces. The second
project, the Strengthening and Promoting TB Control Project (1993), was
jointly funded by the Ministry of Health and the provinces, and was
implemented in 15 provinces not covered by the IEDC Project. In addition,
the province-level cities of Beijing, Tianjin, and Shanghai have their own
well-organized TB control programs with well trained personnel and
sufficient equipment. More recently, the Government has announced major
initiatives to control TB nationally, including a pledge to significantly
increase Central funding. 2.7 The TB Control program under the IEDC
Project has become very successful in its coverage and remarkable cure
rates, and was cited by WHO as one of the most successful TB control
interventions in the world. However, many of achieved gains can be lost
if the government does not provide adequate resources to continue the
- 2 -



program after Bank financing concludes in mid-2002. The Government
initiated TB control program has also achieved a very high level of
patient cure rates. However, the coverage tends to be much lower than
under the IEDC Project, mainly because there is no free treatment to all
patients and there are no special incentives provided to health workers
for case identification and case management. The preparation of the
proposed project would build on the lessons learned from the IEDC Project
as well as from other programs.
2. Objectives
The objective of this project is to reduce tuberculosis morbidity and
mortality through an effective and sustainable National TB Control
Program, especially among the poor.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
5.1 The achievements of the IEDC Project are well known and well
documented in reports. It would be impossible to achieve its results on
such a large scale without the Bank's active involvement. While the
project is exceptionally successful from technical and implementation
viewpoints, it suffers from uncertainties of future adequate financing, to
continue the results before the program becomes a regular activity in the
provincial and local levels. The role of the Bank will be critical to
design a substantive project that will create a significant impact in
reducing TB in a large country like China, and at the same time help
increase the sustainability of TB control program in China. 5.2 The Bank
has the unique ability to raise the political commitment so essential for
a successful TB program in China for two reasons. First, the Bank has the
experience and the capacity for large scale involvement, which would help
attain favorable attention from various levels of governments in China.
Second, helping raise the country's commitment to public health programs
like TB control is one of the Bank's most important health sector
strategies in China and an important recommendation of the last health
sector study.5.3 Finally, this large project could not have materialized
without the joint involvement of the Bank and UK's Department for
International Development (DFID). It is also the wish of DFID and other
international partners that the Bank should play this important role in
effecting a major joint international effort for a substantive TB control
project in China. DFID's high priority for poverty alleviation programs
fits extremely well in this case because of the strong cause and effect
relationship between TB and poverty.
4. Description
The project, financed jointly by the Bank and UK's Department for
International Development (DFID), will have three broad components, one
at the National level and two at the provincial level, as described
below:Component 1. Strengthened National TB Policies and Programmingl.1
Institutional Developmentl.2 Policy and Program Developmentl.3
Coordination and ManagementComponent 2. Improved Access to and Quality of
TB Services at Province Level2.1 Program Management2.2 Service Delivery2.3
Patient-focused InnovationsComponent 3. Strengthened Institutions and
Financing to Deliver TB Program at Province Level3.1 Institutional
Strengthening3.2 Expanded Financing for Sustainable TB Control
1. Strengthened National TB Control Program
1.1 Institutional Development
1.2 Policy and Program Development
-3-



1.3 Coordination and Management
2. Improved Access to and Quality of TB Services at Province Level
2.1 Program Management
2.2 Service Delivery
2.3 Patient-focused Innovations
3.1 Institutional Strengthening
3.2 Expanded Financing for Sustainable TB Control
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 225
6. Implementation
4.1 Project Implementation. The project will be implemented over seven
years, starting January 2002. The Ministry of Health (MOH) will have the
overall responsibility for overall coordination of project implementation
and conduct of national level activities. A Project Leading Group will be
established under a Vice Minister of MOH and will include representatives
of other key Ministries, including the Ministry of Health, Ministry of
Finance, and the State Development and Planning Commission, to oversee
this project and mobilize official commitment at the highest level at the
Center as well as in the provinces. MOH's Department of Disease Control
(DDC) will be responsible for implementing the national component of the
project. DDC will rely heavily on a central TB unit to carry out both the
"Policy and Programme Development" and the "Coordination and Management"
components of the project. The Foreign Loan Office (FLO) of MOH, which is
fully experienced to implement Bank-assisted projects, will ensure the
compliance of the project related commitments and requirements, including
procurement, monitoring and reporting, financial, and auditing. The
project will require significant management, coordination, and
implementation capacities from both the central TB unit and FLO.
Therefore, it is important to strengthen their capacity through the
provision of additional staff and resources.4.2 Practically all of the
tuberculosis control activities, which are the bulk of this project, will
be implemented in the provinces with most activities falling under the
counties. The management and coordination of these activities will be the
responsibility of the concerned provincial government. Each project
province will establish a leading group following the Central model and
each will also maintain a foreign loan office, under the direction of a
project director, to handle the logistics of project implementation. The
project will strengthen the project implementation capacity at the
provincial, prefectural/city and county levels.4.3 Cofinancing. This
project is designed as a pioneering effort to combine grant funds with
regular IBRD loans to soften the terms for high priority social sector
projects with overwhelming objective of poverty alleviation. This project
combines approximately US$... million grant from the United Kingdom's
Department for International Development (DFID) with IBRD's US$117 million
loan to control TB, which disproportionately affects poorest populations
in China's poorest provinces. The detailed mechanism and terms of
combining the two sources of funds will be finalized before loan
negotiations. DFID has played a very active role during project
development and is expected to play an equally active role during project
implementation. In addition to the IBRD/DFID joint financing, The
Government of China also expects to receive grants totaling about US$12
million (over 5% of the total project costs) from the Government of Japan
- 4 -



during the first five years of the seven-year project period. However,
considering that a part of that US$12 million is still to be formally
agreed, the project's financial and costing arrangements will include the
Japanese grant as part of the Central Government's responsibility and
obtain assurances accordingly. 4.4 Monitoring and Supervision. A project
implementation plan (PIP) is being prepared by MOH's technical experts and
the provinces through an iterative process based on discussions with
successive Bank/DFID missions. The final PIP, which will be discussed and
agreed during negotiations, will provide the basis for project
implementation, monitoring and supervision. The project's implementation
progress will be monitored through semi-annual progress reports,
containing essential data on the implementation of the project components
and sub-components, and through field supervision visits. Achievement of
project objectives will be assessed through a Mid-term Evaluation
scheduled not later than December 31, 2004, and through a project
completion review jointly produced by the Borrower and the Bank at the end
of the project. 4.5 Financial Management. (See Annex 6 for detailed
description). As for other Bank supported health projects, financial
management will be the responsibility of the project units, the project
offices in MOH and bureau of finances (BOFs) at each level, and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). There will be a Special Account for the
project located in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, and managed
by MOF. The internal disbursement procedures will involve the project
management offices at financial bureaus of each level. Separate project
accounts will be kept in the project units and offices at each level.
Each project unit will prepare regular financial reports to submit to
higher level project office. FLO/MOH will consolidate provincial reports
and prepare the final financial report for the whole project. MOH/FLO has
the experience and ability to handle financial management of Bank-assisted
projects at the Central level. The project accounts and financial
statements will be audited by the State Audit Administration or its local
offices, in accordance with standard practice in China, which has been
found satisfactory by the Bank. 4.6 Procurement and disbursement. (See
Annex 6 for detailed description). FLO/MOH will oversee project
procurement and will be responsible to ensure that the Bank Guidelines are
followed. FLO is highly experienced to manage the Bank's procurement
procedures. FLO will closely manage all international competitive bidding
(ICB) procurement except those agreed to be decentralized to the provinces
for the sake of efficiency. ICB procurement will be carried out by one of
the certified trading companies that is knowledgeable about the Bank's
procurement rules and procedures. Most non-ICB procurement will be
decentralized to the provinces and, to manage such procurement, project
offices will be established at the provincial level with adequate trained
staff. The project will use the same arrangements as in other health
projects for submission and validation of claims through the project
office at each level, with review by BOF at each level before being passed
to the level above. The funds are transferred from level to level through
commercial banks nominated by the BOF at each level. During the project
implementation, the World Bank Office Beijing (WBOB) procurement team will
be responsible for all review and communications with the Government
regarding ICB and national competitive bidding, except when alternative
arrangements are made. The WBOB procurement staff will be responsible for
the assessment of the procurement capacity of the central and provincial
implementing agencies and training requirements according to the OCSPR
guidelines, "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement."
- 5-



They will also evaluate procurement preparation and be responsible for
evaluation of procurement performance during implementation. {THE
PROCUREMENT PLAN WILL BE FINALIZED DURING APPRAISAL IN LATE AUGUST 2001.
WORKSHOPS WILL BE ORGANIZED BEFORE AND DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION TO
FAMILIARIZE THE PROJECT PROVINCES WITH BANK PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES.}
7. Sustainability
1.1 The project will require significantly increased budgetary resources
to implement as well as sustain the program after its completion. There
is always the risk that the provinces will not allocate sufficient funds
for these purposes. The following measures are expected to minimize the
risks to an acceptable level:The project starts with a larger proportion
of domestic resources than its predecessor projects, notably the IEDC
Project, and thus the transition to the post-project phase should be
relatively easier;The Central Government will also particiate with grant
funds mainly directed towards poorer and needy provinces; There is a
greater awareness among the provinces and, because of the experience with
the IEDC Project, they are aware of the costs involved;Each province was
selected only after obtaining a clear indication of its commitment and a
firm assurance to provide the required resources; China has high rates of
economic growth but very low current resource allocations for the health
sector. The issue is not one of affordability but of political will. The
Central Government is taking determined actions to raise allocations for
preventive health and, in fact, has issued guidelines to provinces to
significantly raise the allocations; and The project's benefits are
expected to put pressure on the provinces to continue the program.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
3.1 Valuable lessons have been learned from the design and implementation
of the Bank-assisted IEDC Project (Cr. 2317-CHA), as well as from the
experience of the Strengthening and Promoting TB Control Project
(MOH-assisted project). The most important lessons can be summarized as
follows:3.2 Technical Design. Both the IEDC and the MOH-assisted projects
clearly illustrated that directly observed treatment, short-course (DOTS)
can be a well appreciated and very successful method of TB control in
China. The projects showed that Chinese officials were fully capable of
implementing a very successful DOTS program. Also, China has the basic
health infrastructure well-suited to mounting successful TB control
program and achieve very high public health impact. However, the extent
of success depends upon substantial additional resources, which are not
easily available without strong commitment and the strengthening of
management and implementation capacity at provincial levels and below.3.3
Political Commitment. It is very clear that a successful TB control
program requires a high level of commitment from provincial and local
levels, mainly because many officials consider free access to TB service
too expensive and even unnecessary in China's cost recovery system based
on fee-for-services. In the IEDC Project, it was clear from inception
that senior officials of some project provinces were not inclined to spend
significantly increased resources and, as a result, the project could not
attain 100 percent coverage in all provinces. The lesson is clear that
the project should not expect the required additional financial
allocations from provincial and local levels unless they are fully
discussed and agreed beforehand.3.4 Resistance from within Health Sector.
Free TB service removes potential income from those who would benefit from
fees, including local hospitals. Therefore, determined actions are
- 6 -



required to ensure internal cooperation for full compliance with the
referral program. Furthermore, while the provision of case management
incentives to health workers can significantly improve TB control, this
can also create dissatisfaction among other health staff who do not
receive such incentives for their other activities. On the other hand, in
order to motivate staff to continue working in TB control programs, case
management incentives must be comparable to compensation missed by not
charging the patients.3.5 Sustaining the Success. The IEDC Project also
demonstrated that program sustainability would be extremely difficult
unless the program can be implemented as part of the regular budget and
financing system rather than from ad hoc allocations. 3.6 Provision of
Quality Drugs and Equipment. High quality, low priced anti-TB drugs were
procured and supplied through competitive procedures with excellent
effects on the project. On the other hand, equipment procured through ICB
did not always meet required standard or expectations due to incomplete
technical specifications and/or insufficient attention paid to quality.
This caused dissatisfaction at provincial and lower levels. The lesson is
that procurement procedures should carefully build the quality
requirements and after sales service.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is expected to have no adverse
environmental impact, because the project involves the establishment of a
better managed and more effective program to control tuberculosis by
significantly increasing access to better quality care. Civil works are
expected to be limited to minor repairs and renovations of the existing
clinics.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jagadish P. Upadhyay
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week
ending Setember 7, 2001.
-7-



