Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22597-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$104 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT
February 28, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 14, 2002)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB)
RMB 1.0 = US$0.12
US$1 = RMB 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS               -      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAPM               -      Chinese Academy for Preventive Medicine
CAS                -      Country Assistance Strategy
DDC                -      Department of Disease Control, of MOH
DFID               -      Department for Intemational Development,
United Kingdom
DHLY               -      Discounted Healthy Life Year
DOTS               -      Directly Observed Treatment, Short-Course
DRS                -      Drug Resistance Surveillance
FLO                -      Foreign Loan Office, of MOH
HIV                -      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD               -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                -      Intemational Development Association
IEC                -      Information, Education and Communication
IMR                -      Infant Mortality Rate
MCH                -      Maternal and Child Health
MDR                -      Multidrug-resistance
MIS                -      Management Information System
MMR                -      Maternal Mortality Ratio
MOF                -      Ministry of Finance
MOH                -      Ministry of Health
NCB                -      National Competitive Bidding
NTP                -      National Tuberculosis Control Program
PIP                -      Project Implementation Plan
SDPC               -      State Development and Planning Commission
SOE                -      Statement of Expenditure
STD                -      Sexually Transmitted Disease
U5MR               -      Under Five Mortality Rate
UNICEF             -      United Nations Children's Fund
WBOB               -      World Bank Country Office, Beijing
WHO                -      World Health Organization
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Jimenez, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jagadish Upadhyay, EASHD



CHINA
TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Key perfornance indicators                                                         3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Governnent strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summnary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      6
3. Benefits and target population                                                     8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       13
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                          14
2. Financial                                                                         14
3. Technical                                                                         15
4. Institutional                                                                     16
5. Environmental                                                                     17
6. Social                                                                            18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                19



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  20
2. Critical risks                                                                  21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  22
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         22
2. Other                                                                            22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      33
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                          34
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    40
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   50
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 52
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                53
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          57
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                            59
Annex 12: Summary of Blending Mechanism                                               72
MAP(S)
IBRD Map. No. 31620



CHINA
Tuberculosis Control Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Human Development Sector Unit
Date: February 28, 2002                          Team Leader: Jagadish P. Upadhyay
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang            Sector Manager: Enimanuel Jimenez
Project ID: P071147                              Sector(s): HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee   [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): US$104.00
Note: The United Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID) has agreed to provide to the PRC a grant
of about US$37 million to be blended with an IBRD Loan of US$104.0 million to reduce the effective interest rate to the
PRC.
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 3 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8                        Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% per annum from the date the  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
charge accrues to, but not including  Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
the 4th anniversary of such date; and
0.75% per annum thereafter.
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Auto. Rate Fixing by period 6 months
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
[ I Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  [Xjlnterest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                    138.33           0.00       138.33
IBRD                                                         65.88         38.12        104.00
Total:                                                      204.21          38.12       242.33
Borrower: CHINA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Ministry of Health
Address: 154 GuLou XiDa Jie, Xi Cheng District, Beijing 100009, China
Contact Person: Dr. Cai Jiming, Deputy Director, Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of Health
Tel: (86-10) 8404-5750          Fax: (86-10) 8404-5749          Email: flomoh@public.bta.net.cn



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002      2003       2004      2005      2006       2007      2008s     200
Annual    10.15      19.56     17.78      14.61     11.04     11.13     13.03      6.70
Cumulative   10.15      29.71     47.49      62.10     73.14     84.27     97.30     104.00
Project implementation period: Seven Years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/24/2002  Expected closing date:  03/15/2010
OCS PAD FPn A. MR . d, 2WO
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of this project is to reduce tuberculosis morbidity and mortality through an effective
and sustainable National TB Control Program, especially among the poor.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The final outcome of the national program will be measured by the reduction of tuberculosis
prevalence rate and the decrease in mortality from tuberculosis in China. The project's main performance
indicators during the project life will be to achieve in the project area:
(a) 70% case detection rate of new smear-positive cases;
(b) at least 85% cure rate of smear-positive TB cases;
(c) full funding of critical program components, including free treatment for all smear-positive TB
cases; and
(d) establishment of adequate and effective institutions to control TB at all governmental levels.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16321-CHA Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/18/1997 -- PR - 5/28/1998
The project advances the World Bank's assistance strategy for China as expressed in the following
three documents:
(a) It responds to the emphasis in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for China's health
sector, namely, the prevention and control of infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis, with
particular efforts to benefit the poorest areas;
(b) It expands public funding for disease prevention as recommended by the Bank's most recent
health sector report on China: Issues and Options in Health Financing, August 1996; and
(c) It forms an integral part of the World Bank Strategy for Health, Nutrition, and Population in
the East Asia and Pacific Region, June 2000, which cites tuberculosis as an infectious disease
that remains one of the important public health problems for the region, particularly affecting
poorer populations.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
Unfinished Agenda. Despite remarkable improvements in overall health status in the past
decades, China's health services remain inadequate and regional disparities are very wide. A significant
proportion of the country's population still lacks satisfactory provision of basic health care, and access to
health care is inequitable and often unaffordable for many poor conmmunities. Consequently, health status
varies greatly among geographical areas and income groups. For example, while the national maternal
mortality ratio was 56 per 100,000 live births in 1999, it was 38 in urban areas and 80 in rural areas.
Similarly, while the national under-five mortality ratio was 25 per 1,000 births in 1999, it was 16 in urban
areas and 49 in rural areas. China's per capita total public and private health spending was RMB 332 in
1993, ranging from RMB 92 in Guizhou to RMB 490 in Guangdong.
-3 -



Tuberculosis tops the list of infectious causes of death in China, with over 400 million persons
estimated to be infected, including five million persons with the active disease, and 150,000 persons dying
from the disease. Each year, 1.3 million additional persons develop active TB. The rate of TB in
impoverished rural areas is nearly three times higher than in economically developed urban areas. This is
attributed to poor living conditions, insufficient financial resources to pay for health care, reduced access to
health services, and lack of knowledge about TB. As poverty facilitates the spread of TB, it also
contributes to the cycle of poverty for many in China. Physical disease and economic hardship fonn a
self-perpetuating vicious cycle.
Financing Health Care. Health financing in China has shifted from a collective or centralized
system to a more decentralized approach. The percentage of government funds used for public health
services has decreased, while charges and user fees have become increasingly common as sources of
income for health care workers and facilities. For example, the ratio of public to private health
expenditures has markedly declined, from 1.7:1 in 1990 to 0.75:1 in 1997. The impact of this shift has
been especially problematic for TB control as market i.. i IrWC lead to increased public health risks.
Tuberculosis, which disproportionately affects the poorest populations, rh,.1!1ir. poverty reduction goals.
In areas without special funding programs, cost recovery and user charges have led to disincentives
for patients to seek care and to continue treatment to completion, *hcreh\ increasing risks of transmission
and death and development of drug resistance. Public health facilities lack equipment or resources to
perform activities like sputum microscopy, and supervision of village doctors, along with training or
surveillance activities, are poorly conducted, if at all. Preliminary reports suggest that parts of China may
be already facing some of the highest rates of multidrug-resistant (MDR) TB in the world because of
poorly managed TB control programs, as either patients do not take their drugs rTO - ll.IrIr. or the drug
supply is interrupted. MDR-TB poses one of the gravest risk-s to the control of TB. It can cost more than
100 times to treat in some settings and, even then, only 60 percenit of patients are cured as compared to 95
percent with non-drug-resistant TB under proper patient management.
New Challenges. Rapid economic growth, reform measures, growing openness, and the country's
epidemiological transitions have brought new health problems, includirwu a major increase in chronic
diseases, the emergence of infections from the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and reemergence of
sexually transmitted diseases. Currently, more than 600,000 persons are estimated to be infected with HIV
and this number will increase. Overall, one-third of those with HIV/AIDS will die from TB. By pursuing
HIV prevention and by implemrenting an effective TB conitrol program, China can minimize the impact of
HlIV-associated TB and improve the care of those with HIV/AIDS.
Government Strategy
The Govemrnment has made efforts to complete the unfinished tasks and respond to newer
challenges. Practically, all ten World Bank assisted health projects in China address these old and new
challenges. Recent emphasis on accelerated development of poorest inland provinces is expected to provide
a further boost toward these goals. To control tuberculosis, the government has taket si LIi ficaLin steps
since 1990. Their efforts have included the implementation of two large TB control projects utilizing the
WHO-advocated directly observed treatment, short-course (DOTS) strategy. The first major project was
the Baank-financed Infri'ous and Endemic Disease Control (IEDC) Project (Cr. 2317-CHA), which was
approved in December 1991 and covers 13 of China's current 31 provinces. The second project, the
S tiOnmilieriinc and Promoting TB Control Project (1993), was jointly funded by the Ministry of flealth and
the provinces, and was implemented in 15 provinces not covered by the IEDC Project. In addition, the
province-level cities of Beijino. Tianjin, and Slianghai have their own well-organized TB control programs
-4 -



with well trained personnel and sufficient equipment. More recently, the Government has announced major
initiatives to control TB nationally, including a pledge to significantly increase Central funding. In March
2000, China announced its support for the global Stop TB campaign at the Amsterdam conference. This
has translated into a sustained political commitment, as evidenced by the video conference held by the State
Council with high-level government leaders and the development of the State Council plan to control TB in
China.
The TB Control program under the IEDC Project has become very successful in its coverage and
remarkable cure rates, and was cited by WHO as one of the most successful TB control interventions in the
world. However, many of achieved gains will be lost if the government does not provide adequate
resources to continue the program after Bank financing concludes in mid-2002. The Government initiated
TB control program has also achieved a very high level of patient cure rates. However, the coverage tends
to be much lower than under the IEDC Project, mainly because patients are charged for all diagnostic
services, only a small percentage of patients receive free treatment, and there are no special incentives
provided to health workers for case identification and case management. The preparation of the proposed
project would build on the lessons leamed from the IEDC Project as well as from other programs.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project will address three sets of issues related to tuberculosis control in China that represent
critical elements of China's health sector issues: (a) expanding free access to high quality tuberculosis care
focusing on the poorest regions of China; (b) expanding the domestic resource base to ensure sustainability
of the program; and (c) laying the institutional foundation to implement a uniform nationwide approach to
tuberculosis control in China.
Focusing on the poorest areas is essential as they have the highest rate of tuberculosis and the
greatest need for assistance. Experience has demonstrated that providing free access is critical to achieving
an effective control program for the infectious smear positive type of tuberculosis. Recovering costs from
the patients reduced the demand for services and resulted in incomplete treatment and increased risk of
development of drug resistance. The proposed project would fully finance the implementation of a
comprehensive TB control program in sixteen provinces focussing primarily on poor provinces. In
addition, the project recognizes that a national approach to TB control is essential to ensure that no
provinces are left out of an effective program. Therefore, the project will assist the Government in its
efforts to formulate and implement a national strategy, approach, and framework, which will encompass all
TB control activities in the country. The project will also assist the Govemment with institutional
strengthening at all levels of the health sector.
The importance of establishing a sustainable financing mechanism has been well demonstrated by
the experience of the IEDC Project, which has proved very successful but faces the risks of inadequate
funding in some provinces to sustain the program. Therefore, participation by different levels of
govemnment as part of their regular budgetary activities is considered the only effective path to ensure the
adequate funding necessary for a sustainable TB control program. This will also be consistent with the
strategy of increasing public funding for this important public health program.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will have three broad components, one at the National level and two at the provincial
- 5 -



level, as described below:
Component 1. Strengthened National TB Policies and Programming
1.1   Institutional Development
1.2   Policy and Program Development
1.3    Coordination and Management
Component 2. Improved Access to and Quality of TB Services at Province Level
2.1    Prograrn Management
2.2    Service Delivery
2.3    Patient-focused Innovations
Component 3. Strengthened Institutions and Financing to Deliver TB Program at Province Level
3.1   Institutional Strengthening
3.2    Expanded Financing for Sustainable TB Control
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)   financing
1. Strengthened National TB Policies  Institutional              0.0                 0.0
and Programming                  Development
1.1 Institutional Development                         0.66       0.3      0.59       0.6
1.2 Policy and Program Development                    1.66       0.7      0.32       0.3
1.3 Coordination and Management                       2.17       0.9      0.67       0.6
2. Improved Access to and Quality of Specific Diseases,          0.0                  0.0
TB Services at Province Level   including Malaria,
TB, Others
2.1 Program Management                                50.62     20.9      27.78      26.7
2.2 Service Delivery                                 121.80     50.3     45.47      43.7
2.3 Patient-focused Innovations                       24.34      10.0     15.14      14.6
3. Strengthened Institutions and  Specific Diseases,             0.0                  0.0
Financing to Deliver TB Program at  including Malaria,
Province Level                   TB, Others
3.1 Institutional Strengthening                      35.14       14.5     12.31      11.8
3.2 Expanded Financing for                            4.90       2.0       0.68       0.7
Sustainable TB Control
Total Project Costs                 241.29      99.6    102.96      99.0
Front-end fee                    1.04       0.4      1.04       1.0
Total Financing Required                  242.33     100.0    104.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project includes the following policy and institutional reforms:
Increasing resources for a sustainable tuberculosis control program. China has demonstrated its
- 6 -



capacity to implement a very successful TB control program. However, as experienced under the
Bank-financed IEDC Project, local commitments can be inadequate for post-project sustainability. This
issue has received considerable attention under the proposed project and a number of steps have been taken.
First, there is a significantly higher level of financial inputs from the Central and provincial Governments
to support TB control program at the county level. These inputs will be primarily targeted to poorer areas
which under the IEDC Project had greater difficulty implementing the project effectively and were least
able to sustain the program because of financial constraints. Many provinces have committed to meet all
or parts of their counties' counterpart funding responsibilities. Second, the project will require the
Government to take a number of steps during the implementation period, including: (a) the commitment
from all provinces to assume the counterpart funding obligations of at least the nationally and provincially
designated poverty counties; (b) the commitment from all provinces to allocate the project's funding as part
of their five-year plans and regular budgets instead of ad hoc allocations; (c) commitment by each province
to submit its plan to improve the program's sustainability in the concerned province; and (d) commitment
by the Ministry of Health to give the Bank an opportunity to discuss and comment on the provincial
sustainability plans (see Section G).
Free access to TB diagnosis and treatment. TB results in the highest number of deaths among
infectious diseases in China. It is a public good and a most cost effective health investment. Experience
has shown that a fee-for-service system can seriously hamper the control of this infection and adversely
affect the poorest families most. The project would seek national and provincial agreement to ensure full
access of services to all TB patients, free diagnosis for all patients, and free treatment to at least smear
positive and seriously ill smear negative cases. Pilot programs will test the feasibility and the technical and
social benefits against the costs of extending free treatment to all smear negative cases.
Implementing a consistent national TB control program. The project would help the Government
to prepare a national TB control program and develop an implementation plan for the national program.
Restricting unauthorized treatment. Chinese patients often face incorrect or expensive treatments
from unqualified practitioners. They also face expensive fee-for-service treatment from hospitals or clinics.
Both have had undesirable financial consequences and also helped create multidrug-resistant TB. The
project will seek assurances to strengthen measures to prevent unauthorized treatments from the public
facilities as well as from private practitioners and to refer all cases to designated clinics. In addition, laws
and regulations to restrict the over-the-counter sale of TB drugs will be developed.
Strengthening of implementation capacitv. Project implementation capacity needs to be
strengthened at the national as well as at the provincial levels. At the national level, the need for planning,
coordination and monitoring will become greater as China embarks upon a national program covering the
whole country instead of the project approach. At the provincial level, the demand for management of TB
control will be much greater especially in those areas where the DOTS strategy will be first introduced with
comprehensive coverage province wide. Program implementation will be carefully phased so that
provinces with experience in DOTS under the Bank-supported IEDC Project can provide technical
assistance to other provinces.
Improved information, education and communication (IEC) through social assessments. To
maximize case finding and to reach the neediest populations, all provinces will design more effective IEC
programs based on more deliberate and better funded social assessments. Special attention will be provided
to ensure that benefits are reached to ethnic minorities, floating migrant populations and those living in
remote areas. To be responsible for social assessments, the central program office will recruit one full-time
social scientist and each project province will designate one official.
-7 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The project will directly benefit 688 million people living in sixteen provinces of China.
It is expected to treat two million TB patients, which is over 70% of the national target during the project
period. It would save at least 100,000 people from death due to tuberculosis during their most productive
years, and decrease the number of prevalent cases through enhanced case detection and effective treatment.
The poorest families are expected to benefit most as they have a disproportionately higher disease burden,
and face more severe economic consequences. Patients, their families and communities will directly benefit
from the avoidance of illness costs, disability and death, and from the preservation of productive capacity.
The project will assist in China's efforts to establish and implement a national TB control policy
plan. It will help strengthen the institutional capacity of the Central and provincial governments to design
and manage effective and financially sustainable TB control programs.
Target Populations. The project would cover sixteen provinces which were selected based on
their low per capita income, high epidemic situation of TB, and commitment to implement the program
involving substantial additional resources. Because of the infectious nature of the disease, the project will
cover the entire populations of the sixteen selected provinces, which totaled 688 million in 1999. The
project's benefits will be greater on poorer populations who tend to be disproportionately more affected by
TB than the average populations. The project will include special measures to benefit vulnerable
populations like ethnic minorities, poor women, and older people who tend to have inadequate access to TB
control programs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation. The project implementation period starts January 1, 2002 and it will be
implemented over seven years. The Ministry of Health (MOH) will have the overall responsibility for
coordination of project implementation and conduct of national level activities. The National TB Control
Program Coordination Committee will oversee this project as part of China's National TB control program
and mobilize official commitment at the highest levels at the Center and in the provinces. This Committee
will be chaired by a Vice Minister of MOH and will include representatives of other key Ministries,
including the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, and the State Development and Planning
Commission. MOH's Department of Disease Control (DDC) will be responsible for policy and program
development, planning, and overall technical guidance. DDC will carry out most of these functions through
the National TB Prevention and Control Center, established within the Center for Disease Control (CDC),
and through the National TB Control Expert Committee. CDC is the recent successor of the Chinese
Academy of Preventive Medicine (CAPM). The Tuberculosis Control Program Office, under the
supervision of the National TB Prevention and Control Center, will carry out day-to-day activities,
coordinate with other projects and link with the National TB Control Expert Committee. The TB Control
Program Office will also assist DDC to implement the national level activities of the project. The National
TB Control Center will take the lead on training, health education, operational research, and technical
guidance under this project. The Foreign Loan Office (FLO) of MOH, which is fully experienced to
implement Bank-assisted projects, will ensure the compliance of the project related commitments and
requirements, including project management and coordination, procurement, accounting, monitoring and
reporting, financial, and auditing. The project will require significant management, coordination, and
implementation support from both the TB Control Program Office and FLO. By the end of June 2002,
there will be a full-time social scientist at the National TB Prevention and Control Center.
Practically all of the tuberculosis control activities, which are the bulk of this project, will be
- 8 -



implemented in the provinces with most activities falling under the counties. The management and
coordination of these activities will be the responsibility of the concemed provincial government. Each
project province will establish a leading group following the central model and each will also maintain a
foreign loan office, under the direction of a project director, to handle the logistics of project
implementation. The project will strengthen the TB program implementation capacity at the provincial,
prefecture/city and county levels.
DFID Financing. (Annex 12 provides fuither details of the blending mechanism.) This project is
also designed as a pioneering effort to combine grant funds with regular IBRD loans to soften the terms for
high priority social sector projects with the overwhelming objective of poverty reduction. The United
Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID) has agreed to provide to the PRC a grant of
US$37.44 million to be blended with an IBRD Loan of US$104.0 million to reduce the effective interest
rate to the PRC. The DFID grant will be used to prepay 36 percent of IBRD disbursements at regular
intervals in order to reduce the effective interest rate on the total Bank Loan to about two percent per
annum over the 20 year period. MOF will pass the proceeds of the Loan to the project provinces at the
guaranteed interest rate of two percent per annum. The DFID grant includes an additional cushion to
mitigate the interest risk bome by MOF. DFID has played a very active role during project development
and will also be fully involved during the project implementation. In addition to this IBRD/DFID
financing, the PRC also expects to receive assistance from other external sources, including a grant from
Japan, to help reduce its share of financing of the TB control program in the provinces.
Monitoring and Supernsion. A project implementation plan (PIP) was prepared by MOH's
technical experts and the provinces through an iterative process based on discussions with successive
Bank/DFID missions and technical assistance from WHO. The final PIP, discussed and agreed during
negotiations, will provide the basis for project implementation, monitoring, and supervision. The project's
implementation progress will be monitored through semi-annual progress reports, containing essential data
on the implementation of the project components and sub-components, and through field supervision visits.
Results of a detailed baseline survey will be available by December 31, 2002 against which the project's
impact will be measured. Progress in the improvement of the project's sustainability will be measured
against each province's sustainability plan to be provided by December 31, 2002. Achievement of project
objectives will be assessed through a Mid-term Evaluation to be carried out by May 31, 2005, and through
a project completion review jointly produced by the Borrower and the Bank at the end of the project.
Regular surveillance data will allow impact assessment among various population groups including the
reduction in vulnerabilities associated with program delivery.
Financial Management. (See Annex 6 for detailed description. The detailed Financial
Management Assessment is located in the Project File). As for other Bank supported health projects,
financial management will be the responsibility of the project units, the FLO in MOH and bureaus of
finance (BOFs) at each level, and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). There will be a Special Account for the
project located in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, and managed by MOF. A second generation
special account will also be established and managed by the provincial financial bureau of each of the
sixteen project provinces. The internal disbursement procedures will involve the project management
offices and financial bureaus of each level. Separate project accounts will be kept in the project units and
offices at each level. Each project unit will prepare regular financial reports to submit to higher level
project office. FLO/MOH will consolidate provincial reports and prepare the final financial report for the
whole project. MOH/FLO has the experience and ability to handle financial management of Bank-assisted
projects at the Central level. The project accounts and financial statements will be audited by the China
National Audit Office or its local offices, in accordance with standard practice in China, which has been
found satisfactory by the Bank.
-9-



Procurement and disbursement. (See Annex 6 for detailed description). FLO/MOH will oversee
project procurement and will be responsible to ensure that the Bank Guidelines are followed. FLO is highly
experienced to manage the Bank's procurement procedures. FLO will closely manage all international
competitive bidding (ICB). ICB procurement will be carried out by one of the certified trading companies
that is knowledgeable about the Bank's procurement rules and procedures. Most non-ICB procurement will
be decentralized to the provinces and, to manage such procurement, project offices will be established at the
provincial level with adequate trained staff. The project will use the same arrangements as in other health
projects for submission and validation of claims through the project office at each level, with review by
BOF at each level before being passed to the level above. The funds are transferred from level to level
through commercial banks nominated by the BOF at each level. During project implementation, the World
Bank Country Office Beijing (WBOB) procurement team will be responsible for all review and
communications with the Government regarding ICB and national competitive bidding, except when
alternative arrangements are made.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Justification for the Tuberculosis Control Project. Tuberculosis is the largest killer among
infectious diseases in China. Nearly a third of the country's population is considered infected, and five
million persons carry the active (contagious) disease. Each year 1.3 million additional persons develop the
active disease and 150,000 die as a result. Over 75% of China's TB patients are 15-54 years old, affecting
prime working life. This disease disproportionately hurts the poorest families. Not only are the poor more
vulnerable to this active disease, but TB has also been the single most important health reason of
impoverishment. Therefore, controlling TB has been considered a top priority health task in China at this
time.
An approach of system reform was discussed but rejected in favor of targeted approach because
the system approach would not be appropriate at this time given: (a) the overall scale of the problem; (b)
the substantial technical and management challenge still ahead to adopt safer and more effective TB control
methods throughout the country; and (c) the need to develop commitment to sustain them financially and
institutionally. This approach would be pursued within the clear context of overall priorities and health
system reform measures adopted by the Government. Consideration of a sector approach was also
rejected given the need for focused attention on methods to best improve and sustain access and service
quality targeted for the poor.
Adoption of DOTS Approach. The project follows the well-proven DOTS strategy (the
WHO-recomnmended strategy to control TB) in its design. This approach has been very successfully
implemented under the IEDC Project. Alternative methods of treatment, which were prevalent in the past,
were considered and rejected as too lengthy, less effective, and too risky to avoid multidrug-resistant TB,
which appears to be a growing problem in China.
National TB Control Program. The DFID/Bank project team had discussed the options of either
implementing the project throughout China or restricting it exclusively in the specific provinces selected by
the Government under a set of agreed criteria leaving the rest of the country completely outside the project.
Neither option was considered appropriate. Trying to cover the whole of China was considered unrealistic
at this time because it would be inappropriate to delay the project everywhere until all provinces were ready
to make their commitment for substantially increased resource allocations. Covering the whole country
- 10-



would also have meant spreading the central and external resources too thin and hurting particularly the
poorer regions of China. On the other hand, confining the project exclusively to selected provinces would
leave many provinces outside of the improved TB control system. Therefore, in addition to implementing
an intensive program in the selected sixteen provinces, the project team decided to include activities that
would assist with the finalization of the National TB Control Program, development of an irnplementation
plan, and formulation of improved policies and programs.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
______________________________   _____________(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Implementation of short-course    China: Infectious and Endemic   HS            HS
chemotherapy for tuberculosis control  Disease Control Project (Cr.
in thirteen provinces of China.   2317-CHA)
Basic health services, including TB  China: Basic Health Services  S             S
control, as part of poverty alleviation.  Project (Cr. 3075-CHA)
Assist in the prevention and control of China: Health Nine Project  S            S
HIV/AIDS.                         (Cr. 3201/Ln. 4462-CHA)
Improvement of quality and access of  China: Comprehensive        HS            HS
MCH care in China's poorest       Maternal and Child Health Care
provinces, with poverty alleviation  Project (Cr. 2655-CHA)
focus.
Other development agencies
Implementation of TB control strategy  Strengthening and Promoting
using DOTS strategy in fifteen    TB Control Project
provinces in China.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Valuable lessons have been leamed from the design and implementation of the Bank-assisted IEDC
Project (Cr. 2317-CHA), as well as from the experience of the MOH-assisted Strengthening and Promoting
TB Control Project. Lessons from TB control activities in other countries have also been considered. The
most important lessons from activities in China can be summarized as follows:
Technical Design. Both the IEDC and the MOH-assisted projects clearly illustrated that DOTS
can be a well appreciated and very successful method of TB control in China. The projects showed that
Chinese officials were fully capable of implementing a very successful DOTS program. Also, China has
the basic health infrastructure well-suited to mounting successful TB control program and achieve very
high public health impact. However, the extent of success depends upon substantial additional resources,
which are not easily available without strong commitment and the strengthening of management and
implementation capacity at provincial levels and below.
- 11 -



Political Commitment. It is very clear that a successful TB control program requires a high level
of commitment from provincial and local levels, mainly because many officials consider free access to TB
service too expensive and even unnecessary in China's cost recovery system based on fee-for-services. In
the IEDC Project, it was clear from inception that senior officials of some project provinces were not
inclined to spend significantly increased resources and, as a result, the project could not attain 100 percent
coverage in all provinces. The lesson is clear that the project should not expect the required additional
financial allocations from provincial and local levels unless they are fully discussed and agreed beforehand.
Resistance from within Health Sector. Free TB service removes potential income from those who
would benefit from fees, including local hospitals. Therefore, determined actions are required to ensure
intemal cooperation for full compliance with the referral program. Furthermore, while the provision of
case management incentives to health workers can significantly improve TB control, this can also create
dissatisfaction among other health staff who do not receive such incentives for their other activities. On the
other hand, in order to motivate staff to continue working in TB control programs, case management
incentives must be comparable to compensation missed by not charging the patients.
Sustaining the Success. The IEDC Project also demonstrated that program sustainability would
be extremely difficult unless the program can be implemented as part of the regular budget and financing
system rather than from ad hoc, off-budget, allocations.
Provision of Quality Drugs and Equipment. High quality, low priced anti-TB drugs were
procured and supplied through competitive procedures with excellent effects on the project. On the other
hand, equipment procured through ICB did not always meet required standard or expectations due to
incomplete technical specifications and/or insufficient attention paid to quality. This caused dissatisfaction
at provincial and lower levels. The lesson is that procurement procedures should carefully build the quality
requirements and after sales service.
Increasing Coverage and Cure Rates amongst Vulnerable Groups. With free and more
accessible diagnosis and treatment services and with improved information, education and communication
(IEC), the IEDC Project reached DOTS coverage to over 95 percent of population and cure rate to over 90
percent in the project provinces. However, even after seven years' full implementation, the IEDC Project
has been able to identify only about 55 percent of the TB cases in the project areas. The project's lesson
has been clear that, to reach the project's goal of 70 percent case identification, much more extensive and
more innovative IEC programs will be required to raise awareness amongst the population and health
service providers and to reduce any stigma associated with the disease. Hence the project includes
programs to improve the effectiveness of IEC campaigns through the use of social assessments, by
involving village committees, women's groups, traditional heath workers and patient support groups and
others as appropriate, and through targeting of IEC at specific groups based on needs identified by the
social assessment techniques.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is a high degree of commitment from the Central level. The Central Government has
allocated a significant amount of its own resources for TB control for the first time and has indicated its
willingness to continue at increasing rates. As one of the world's top 22 high-burden countries, China has
made an international commitment to control TB and has played an active role in formulating plans under
the global Stop TB initiative. Toward this objective and to improve extemal cooperation, the Government
intends to establish an Inter-agency Coordinating Committee to Stop TB to ensure that programs funded by
all partners are fully consistent with the National Policy. A National TB Control Program Coordination
Committee, under the chairrnanship of a MOH Vice Minister, will oversee the project as well as the
National TB control program. It will also mobilize support for TB control at the Central as well as the
provincial levels. The National Committee will include membership from MOH, State Development
Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Cooperation, and will
invite others as relevant. A central TB Control Program Office has been established to ensure
inter-sectoral cooperation and to oversee the implementation of the proposed project as well as of the
National TB control program.
MOH surveyed the provinces to ensure that they fully understood the costs and benefits of the
program before they applied for assistance under the project. Each project province prepared its own
project proposal, which was amalgamated into a single project implementation plan (PIP). The provinces
were required to involve all counties to prepare the county-level programs. Workshops were held with all
project provinces by MOH and also by the BanktDFID/WHO mission to discuss the project's benefits as
well as the provinces' obligations. The provinces indicated a high level of enthusiasm to participate in the
project and demonstrated full knowledge of the financial and other obligations.
Despite these significantly favorable signs and some concrete actions, the future of the TB program
in general and of the project in particular will depend on continuous efforts to raise awareness of the senior
officials and to maintain the commitment at high level. A number of steps have already been taken to raise
the awareness and others have been planned. Most notable actions include the Nationwide video
conference of 2000 to launch TB control campaign, and the National Meeting in November 2001, to launch
the State Council endorsed National Plan for TB Control and to review and further improve the provincial
commitmnent since the December 2000 video conference to launch of the TB control campaign. Sustaining
the project activities will require even more efforts so that local resources fully fund the activities financed
under the project. A key role for the National TB Control Program Office will be to advocate effectively
for support in the project provinces and in other provinces.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The achievements of the IEDC Project are well known and well documented in reports. It would
be impossible to achieve its results on such a large scale without the Bank's active involvement. While the
project is exceptionally successful from technical and implementation viewpoints, it suffers from
uncertainties of future adequate financing, to continue the results before the program becomes a regular
activity in the provincial and local levels. The role of the Bank will be critical to design a substantive
project that will create a significant impact in reducing TB in a large country like China, and at the same
time help increase the sustainability of TB control program in China.
The Bank has the unique ability to raise the political commitment so essential for a successful TB
program in China for two reasons. First, the Bank has the experience and the capacity for large scale
involvement, which would help attain favorable attention from various levels of governments in China.
Second, helping raise the country's commitment to public health programs like TB control is one of the
- 13-



Bank's most important health sector strategies in China and an important recommendation of the last health
sector study.
Finally, this large project could not have materialized without the joint involvement of the Bank
and UK's Department for International Development (DFID). It is also the wish of DFID and other
international partners that the Bank should play this important role in effecting a major joint intemational
effort for a substantive TB control project in China. DFID's high priority for poverty reduction programs
fits extremely well in this case because of the strong cause and effect relationship between TB and poverty.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project supports the effort of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to reduce tuberculosis morbidity
and mortality amongst the poorest populations through increased access to diagnosis and treatment as part
of an effective and sustainable Tuberculosis Control Program in China. The economic analysis of the
project covers the following: (a) rationale for public sector involvement and poverty impact of the project;
(b) cost effectiveness analysis of project interventions; (c) risk-sensitivity analysis; and (d) financial
sustainability of project interventions.
Economic benefits of project interventions are analyzed in terms of lives saved and smear positive
TB cases averted. It must be noted however, that this is an underestimate of the actual economic impact of
project interventions. Other benefits not quantified here include cost savings from lower health care
treatment costs, psychological benefits of a healthy population, poverty reduction (over 25 percent of the
population covered are from poverty stricken counties) and improved productivity and efficiency among
current and future workers (nearly 75 percent of TB patients in China are between the ages of 15 and 54).
The project would under modest assumptions, avert 529,208 smear positive TB cases and 128,421
deaths. Over the seven year lifetime of the project, the effect will be a gain of 2,996,940 Discounted
Healthy Life Years (DHLY) at a cost of US$63.23 per DHLY gained. Results of risk-sensitivity analysis
show that a 30 percent reduction in project benefits, would result in 2,101,248 DHLY gained at a cost of
US$90.20 per DHLY gained. A 50 percent reduction in project benefits, would result in 1,442,167 DHLY
gained at a cost of US$131.40 per DHLY gained.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
From the experience of the IEDC Project, two issues arise regarding the financing of the proposed
project and its sustainability: (a) can provincial and local governments afford counterpart financing during
implementation especially in the poor provinces; and (b) can provincial and local governments continue to
sustain the TB Control Program in China's decentralized system beyond project implementation? These
were given particular attention during project preparation.
The overall investment of this project is estimated at US$242.33 million. Of this, US$104.0
million, making up 43 percent of the project total, will be provided by the World Bank loan blended with
the DFID grant; US$99.8 million, making up 41 percent of the total, will be provided by local
- 14 -



governments; and US$38.5 million, about 16 percent of the total, will be provided by central government
including any external resources which the government may mobilize. Under the project, central and
provincial government will provide special assistance to poverty areas. Central Government's funds will
primarily be directed to assist western and poor non-western provinces and will mainly be used for drugs,
injection syringes and water. Each province has developed similar approaches to assist poverty areas in
their own province and each expects to further increase such assistance.
The financial sustainability of the project beyond implementation would require that the recurrent
costs of TB control met by the project can be incorporated into provincial budgets after 2008. The
recurrent expenditures funded under the project are costs of diagnosis, treatment, case management and
supervision and are expected to remain beyond project implementation. Assuming that case detection rates
after the project remain unchanged and that health budgets as a percentage of GDP are maintained at
current levels, the recurrent expenditures of the TB program would represent between 0.06 percent and
0.09 percent of the total health spending in these sixteen provinces. If the counterpart funds as well as the
grant funds provided by the central and provincial governments under the project can be earmarked for the
TB program beyond project implementation, the expected recurrent costs of the TB program could be
sustained.
While China can easily afford to sustain its National TB program, the main problem has been
commitment on the part of the provinces. However, it is expected that provincial commitment to support
TB control will significantly increase given the pace of China's economic development, ongoing National
and international campaigns to raise awareness and advocacy, the anticipated success of the TB program,
and the future decline in TB cases.
Fiscal Impact:
See Annex 4
3. Technical:
China is very well exposed to tuberculosis related technical issues, and has over ten years
experience in implementing the DOTS approach proposed for this project. Nevertheless, the following
issues have been revisited during project design:
(a) Diverse needs. The project provinces have diverse characteristics: some are well experienced
in successfully implementing DOTS while others are new to this approach and to a
comprehensive TB control program; some project counties are far poorer than others. The
project design has taken these points into consideration and built in targeted and need-based
technical and financial assistance.
(b) Operational research. The project addresses mechanism for planning, implementation and
dissemination of operational research. A number of high-priority topics have been identified,
including: refining DOTS in hard to reach communities; approaches to and costs and benefits
from free diagnosis and treatment of all patients (smear positives and negatives); integration of
TB in general health services; and relationships with private non-health sector providers.
(c) Innovations. The project will mainstream social development objectives throughout the
program to deliver services that meet peoples' needs. The will contribute to global evidence
base on effective TB control and prevention. Data on gender, residency, ethnicity, age,
economic status will be regularly collected and analyzed alongside indicators of case finding
- 15 -



and cure rates to monitor and measure the program's impact. It will improve design of targeted
IEC, which will also test and utilize media and communications approaches which are
relatively new to TB control program.
(d) Technical policy. To reduce risk of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) the use of fixed-dose
combination.TB drugs will be piloted and then incorporated into the project during the project
period. Drug resistance surveillance studies will be carried out in every province to monitor
the impact of this policy and, based on results, pilot studies on the treatment of MDR-TB may
be conducted. Important technical policy changes over the IEDC Project include: the
preference to use auto-disable syringes to improve injection safety; and the removal of
fluoroscopy from diagnostic algorithm to enhance patient safety.
(e) Emerging health threats. Since the project includes several provinces with higher rates of
HIV infection, it will consider the best ways of preventing and treating HIV associated TB
before HIV turns into a generalized population epidemic. This is expected to generate a policy
on whether and how to implement preventive treatment for TB infection among HlV-infected
persons.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
MOH's Department of Disease Control (DDC) will have the overall responsibility for coordinating
the project implementation and management of the project as well as of the National TB program. A
high-level National Tuberculosis Control Program Coordination Committee will ensure leadership and
coordination at the central level. The Committee will have the representation of SDPC, MOF, MOH,
MOFTEC and other agencies as required. The Tuberculosis Control Program Office, under the
supervision of the National TB Prevention and Control Center, will oversee day-to-day implementation of
the National TB control program with this project as an important part. The Center will provide
specialized technical support. MOH's Foreign Loan Office (FLO) will be responsible for the project's
management, progress monitoring, for providing operational support, and for ensuring the compliance with
the Bank's requirements. Most project activities will be implemented within the provinces, especially at
county level. There will be similar organizations at both provincial and county levels. The provincial and
county level bureaus of health (BOHs) will work closely with their counterpart bureaus of finance (BOFs).
4.2 Project management:
MOH has a long and successful track record of coordinating and overseeing the preparation and
implementation of this type of project. FLO is very well experienced to comply with the Bank's
requirements, including reporting, procurement, financial, and auditing. The central TB Control Program
Office, supported by the resources of the TB Prevention and Control Center, will have strong technical
capacity to implement this project. It can draw on special skills from other agencies for specialized tasks
like IEC. Similarly, the provinces will have access to a wide range of provincial agencies and, through the
TB Control Program Office, can also benefit from expertise from outside the concemed province. There is
an adequate level of experience in the country and the newer jurisdictions are expected to learn from the
more experienced ones. These institutional arrangements are considered fully satisfactory to implement and
manage the project and the National TB control program.
4.3 Procurement issues:
- 16-



Procurement arrangements under the project are discussed in Annex 6. All procurement under the
project will be coordinated and overseen by MOH's Foreign Loan Office. FLO is highly experienced to
manage the procurement process under the Bank-assisted projects, as this will be the tenth health project
under their direct management.
An assessment of the procurement capacity of the central project management office (CPMO) and
provincial project management office (PPMO) was carried out with the help of questionnaires, visits to
three sample provinces and through participation in workshops with all provinces. The assessment has
determined that the CPMO and the PPMOs should be capable to manage all procurement activities
satisfactorily. Most PPMOs have staff experienced in other Bank-assisted projects. However, the
assessment found a few country-wide procurement issues (as discussed in Annex 6, Appendix 6-1) as well
as project-specific needs. The country-wide issues are being taken up separately as part of ongoing
dialogue between the Government of China and the Bank. The project-specific needs will be addressed by
an action plan that was prepared and discussed with the Government. The action plan includes the
preparation and dissemination of a project procurement manual, seminars on preparation of bidding
specifications, and training of PPMO staff on NCB and National Shopping procurement procedures.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management
system of the CN-Tuberculosis Control Project (see Annex 6; The detailed Financial Management
Assessment is located in the Project File). The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the Financial
Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has concluded that the project meets minimum Bank financial
management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. In the project team's opinion, the project will
have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in the reporting format agreed with
the project and as required by the Bank.
Funding sources for the project include a Bank loan blended with the DFID grant, the Central
government grant to provinces, and local counterpart funds. The Bank loan will flow from the Bank to the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), finance bureau at provincial/municipal/county levels, county project
management offices, to contractors or suppliers. The Bank loan will be signed between the Bank and
MOF, and onlending arrangement for the Bank loans will be signed between MOF and the above finance
bureau at different levels. DFID will provide grants to soften the terms of the loan. The counterpart funds
will come from central as well as local government. In terms of disbursement technique, the project will be
disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using PMR-based
disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.
No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involved in the
proposed project. The task team will continue to be attentive to financial management matters and audit
covenants during project supervision.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is expected to have no adverse environmental impact, because the project involves the
establishment of a better managed and more effective program to control tuberculosis by significantly
increasing access to better quality care. Civil works are expected to be limited to minor repairs and
renovations of the existing clinics.
- 17-



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not Applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not Applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not Applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Tuberculosis is a social as well as a medical problem and it is both a cause and consequence of
poverty. TB disproportionately impacts the poorest populations the most and is among the leading causes
of poverty. In China, it affects poor rural populations three times greater than the wealthier urban
populations, it makes China's growing numbers of floating (migrant) populations much more vulnerable,
and it retards the poor's ability to elevate themselves out of poverty. Some 75 percent of China's TB
patients belong to the eaming age of between 15 and 54 years. The control of infectious tuberculosis
through this project should have significant social effects on the most vulnerable sections of the society
including the poorest populations, the floating populations and the ethnic minorities. The project includes
specific measures to ensure that it reaches full benefits to vulnerable groups including ethnic minorities,
floating populations and those living in hard to reach areas (see Annex I 1).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
MOH has prepared the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) based on a proposal from each
participating province, and each province has, in turn, received inputs from its counties. During
preparation, the project received a high degree of participation from other Government departments,
including planning and finance bureaus, at every level. More importantly, consultations were initiated with
former TB patients and their social, economic, and cultural barriers investigated and findings used in the
project preparation. Emphasis will be placed upon making such multi-sectoral participation and
consultation with vulnerable population groups a continuous feature during annual programming and
project implementation. The proposed baseline survey and comprehensive social assessments are expected
to facilitate the process.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A number of local NGOs and civil society organizations were identified based upon the experience
under the IEDC project and during the preparation of this project. They are village committees, Women's
Federation and their network, and labor unions. The project will explore the possibility and advantages of
involving them during implementation period and future assessment work.
- 18 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Government is commnitted to provide necessary resources to the National TB Control Program
Office that is responsible for planning and managing the TB control program. This will include the
recruitment of a full time social scientist to be responsible for social development outcomes. MOH is
planning to establish an expert panel at the central level, comprising TB experts, social scientists, and
experts in IEC and other relevant disciplines. Selected health workers and program managers at provincial
and county levels will be trained with skills to enable them to undertake and analyze social assessment
research to ensure that they meet the needs of the poorest. Operational research will test innovative ways
of implementing DOTS for remote rural areas, equity of access, and innovative IEC for the general and
vulnerable populations. To ensure that the project addresses the needs of the poorest, its progress will be
monitored regularly and reported through semi-annual progress reports. Arrangements will be made for
systematic social assessment to provide inputs to annual plans. Technical assistance will be available to
assist in the design of this assessment and the methods will be piloted in selected counties before wider
applications. It is expected that a sentinel approach will be adopted whereby assessments in selected
counties should be sufficient to inform wider programming. A Mid-term Review will be carried out to
assess the project's achievements and take any needed corrective measures. Measurement of the project's
development impact will be conducted as part of the national TB prevalence survey, which is next
scheduled for 2010.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Regular progress monitoring is expected to measure and report case finding and cure rates in all
areas including the poorest areas included in the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The previous Bank-assisted TB control project, the IEDC Project, reached over 90 percent of the
population of the project provinces but still could only identify about 55 percent of TB patients. For an
effective TB control, and consistent with WHO recommendation, the Government's policy and the proposed
project's goal is to identify at least 70 percent of TB patients in the project. The Governnent is, therefore,
fully aware that the project's objective can only be met by covering close to 100 percent of the population
of each project province which, in turn, can only be achieved through very strong efforts to reach the
provinces' vulnerable populations, including all ethnic minorities, the migrant "floating" populations, and
- 19-



those living in hard-to-reach areas. Therefore, the pi oject includes a strong program of information,
education, and communication (IEC) based on scienrtifically carried out comprehensive social assessments
and client involvement.
An initial social assessment, based on the 2000 National TB Prevalence Survey, was carried out by
the provinces to prepare their project proposals. The results have been incorporated into the project
implementation plan (PIP). Under the project, each of the sixteen project provinces will carry out more
comprehensive and scientifically-designed social aslessment studies during the first year of the project,
again before the mid-term evaluation and, again, before the project's completion. This is expected to help
each province to develop new approaches to IEC, including using local languages and local media, to
inforn patients, the community, and the health providers about tuberculosis symptoms, treatment, and care.
Each project province will prepare plans to improvel access and benefits to minorities and to monitor
progress regularly as part of the project's progress mnonitoring program. In addition, to assess progress in
achieving social development and TB control objectives and to make improvements in access and
affordability covering all patients, operational resea4ch programs have been integrated into project design.
To implement these programs, specific funding has ibeen allocated for capacity building at central,
provincial, prefecture, and county levels, and the participation of project staff in conducting the social
assessments will ensure efficient incorporation of fitidings into TB control practices. See Annex 11 for a
detailed discussion of social assessments under the oroject. See Appendix 11-1 to Annex II for the ethnic
minorities development strategy.
Resettlement. Civil works under the project will be confined to minor repairs of existing buildings,
and installation of x-ray protection barriers. Consequently, the activities will not require new land
acquisition or involuntary resettlement.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will require significantly increalsed budgetary resources to implement as well as sustain
the program after its completion. There is always the risk that the provinces will not allocate sufficient
funds for these purposes. The following measures are expected to minimize the risks to an acceptable level:
* The project starts with a larger proportion of domestic resources than its predecessor projects,
notably the IEDC Project, and thus the transition to the post-project phase should be relatively
easier;
* The Central Government will also participate with grant funds mainly directed toward poorer
and needy provinces;
* There is a greater awareness among thd provinces and, because of the experience with the
IEDC Project, they are aware of the costs involved;
*   Each province was selected only after dbtaining a clear indication of its commitment and a firm
assurance to provide the required resoUrces;
*   China has high rates of economic growth but very low current resource allocations for the
health sector. The issue is not one of affordability as much as one of political will. The
Central Govenmment is taking determinWd actions to raise allocations for preventive health and,
in fact, has issued guidelines to provinies to significantly raise the allocations;
*   The project's benefits are expected to ehcourage the provinces to continue the program; and
*   Once the State Council's National TB C2ontrol Plan is disseminated to all provinces, provincial
governments will be required to meet sbecific targets to control TB. This will put pressure on
20 -



the provinces to continue the program.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Commitment at provincial and lower      S         Undertaking to be obtained from each province
levels may not be enough to provide                  as a condition of their participation in the
adequate resources for free and universal            project
access to patients that will be required to
control contagious TB.
2. Inadequate donor coordination to        M         Financing for this project will come jointly from
realize maximum benefits from the                    the Bank and UK's DFID, which have fully
project.                                             coordinated their approach. Serious efforts to
coordinate with other donors have already
started and should continue throughout the
project implementation.
3. Rapid increases of HIV/AIDS cases       M         The Government is committed to use the project
could add complexities to implement the              to test and develop policy to address this issues.
TB control program.                                  Intensive efforts will be included in high risk
areas. Health workers will be trained to address
this issue.
4. Inability to cover China's large and     S        The Central and the provincial governments
growing migrants, called "floating                   have indicated their strong commitments to
population," can seriously affect                    equity in service provision. People will be
realization of the project objectives                offered a package of care based on their needs,
satisfactorily.                                      irrespective of their residential status. This will
be regularly monitored.
From Components to Outputs
4. Inadequate counterpart funding may       S        This risk is substantial based on the experience
hamper successful implementation.                    of the related previous project. This will require
regular monitoring by central Government as
well as by DFID and the Bank's Beijing offices
or their representatives.
5. Difficulty in adopting DOTS in some     M         Direct observed treatment, short course may be
remote areas.                                        difficult in some remote areas. The project will
pilot and implement altemative service
arrangements appropriate for remote
populations.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 21 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None expected.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following events are additional conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a) Execution of Implementation Agreements by the Borrower and at least eight Project Provinces;
(b) Execution of Tripartite Arrangements by DFID and the Borrower; and
(c) Completion of the First DFID deposit into the Trust Fund.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Borrower's Undertakings
(a) Institutional
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the project period: (a) the National TB Control Program
Coordination Committee; (b) the National TB Prevention and Control Center, established within the
Borrower's Center for Disease Control, to be responsible for provision of technical guidance for the
carrying out of the national TB control program, including the activities under this project; and (c) the
National TB Control Program Office, to be responsible for daily planning, implementation and technical
coordination of the national tuberculosis control program, including the activities under this project. The
Borrower shall ensure that the TB Control Program Office is provided with sufficient staff and resources to
oversee all central level TB control activities, especially those relating to the management of the project.
The Borrower shall recruit, by June 30, 2002, a full-time social scientist in the TB Control Program Office
who would be responsible to assist in the attainment of the project's social development objectives including
inter alia to oversee the implementation of social assessments and the IEC campaigns in project provinces.
(b) Reporting and Monitoring
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank in the format and details satisfactory to the
Bank: (a) by each October 31, the project's annual implementation plans covering the central and the
province-level activities; (b) by each March 31 and September 30, the project's semi-annual progress
reports covering the central and province-level activities in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) by
December 31, 2002, its plan to implement the TB control program nationally.
The Borrower shall, no later than May 31, 2005, carry out a mid-term evaluation of the project in
accordance with mutually agreed terms of reference and arrangements, and provide the report to the Bank
and DFID within six months thereafter.
- 22 -



(c) Financial Sustainability
The Borrower shall require each province to submit, by May 31, 2003, its plan to improve the
sustainability of the TB control in the participating provinces including the financial, legislative and
institutional strengthening measures following the best practices in China. The Borrower shall allow the
Bank, no later than June 30, 2003, an opportunity to review and discuss the national as well as the
provincial plan to improve the sustainability of the TB program in the project areas.
(d) Other
The Borrower shall carry out a comprehensive baseline social assessment survey in project
provinces not later than December 31, 2002. The Borrower shall also carry out two additional social
assessment surveys using social science tcchniques, one before the project's mid-term review and the other
just prior to project completion.
The Borrower shall initiate operational research, not later than December 31, 2002, on: (a) the
benefits of providing free treatment for all smear positive and smear negative TB patients; and (b)
approaches to prevent and treat HIV-associated TB. The Borrower shall afford the Bank an opportunity to
discuss the findings of the research, at the time of the project's mid-term review, including the research's
policy implications and the plans to implement the recommendations.
To limit drug-resistance, the Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31, 2005, assess the level of TB drug-resistance in at least twelve project
provinces, and by December 31, 2007 in the remaining project provinces; and
(b) carry out pilot studies on the use of fixed-dose combination TB drugs in the project, not later
than December 31, 2003, and discuss with the Bank by June 30, 2004 the plan for widespread
use of the fixed-dose combination drugs.
The Borrower shall ensure that each participating province shall carry out its part in accordance
with the Program Management and Technical Guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
Additional Provincial Undertakings
To improve the project's sustainability, each participating province shall:
(a) furnish to the Bank a time-bound action plan for the provision of the counterpart funding
responsibility of at least the nationally and provincially designated poverty counties in the
province, and begin implementing the plan by January 1, 2004;
(b) ensure that the following services will be provided free: (i) diagnosis for all persons suspected
of having TB; (ii) treatment in its entirety for all newly-diagnosed smear positive TB patients;
(iii) first treatment for smear positive re-treatment TB patients; and (iv) treatment of newly
diagnosed new smear negative patients with miliary or cavitary on chest X-ray;
(c) by December 31, 2003, furnish to the Bank a time-bound action plan to limit the sale of
over-the-counter TB drugs within their jurisdiction; and
(d) by May 31, 2003, submit its plan to improve the sustainability of the TB control program in
the province.
- 23 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
a 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first yea's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
C1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
QI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
EU 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jagadish P. Upadhyay               E   n   el Jimenez                   ukoHa
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Manager/Director
- 24-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: CN-Tuberculos s Control Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote human development                           Public expenditure review.
through meeting the basic                           Annual yearbook of health
health needs of the rural poor.                     statistics.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. To reduce TB morbidity  1.1 Achieve 70%            * Baseline national TB    * High and sustainable
and mortality through an  case-detection rate of new     prevalence survey         political commitment at
effective and sustainable  smear-positive male and      (2000) and repeat survey   all levels of government.
National TB Control Program  female TB cases, including  in 2010.               * Effective social
(NTP), especially among poor among poor and vulnerable  * TB mortality data.       mobilization and social
and vulnerable men and    groups.                     * Mid-term review and       involvement.
women.                    1.2 Achieve and maintain at    project completion     * Coordinated,
least 85% cure rate of         report.                   multi-sectoral
smear-positive male and     * Impact assessments.        involvement with
female TB cases.            * Social assessments.       implementation of the
1.3 Full funding of critical                             DOTS strategy.
program components,                                   * Financial commitment
including treatment of all                               at all levels of
smear-positive TB cases, from                            government available
regular governmental budget.                            from regular budget.
1.4 Institutions at all                               * The epidemics of
governmental levels adequate                             multidrug-resistant TB
to implement an effective TB                             and HIV-associated TB
control program.                                         are kept under control.
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. NTP policies developed,  1. I National plan for TB  * Review of project      * Establishment of central
implemented, and monitored. Control (2001-2010) adopted.  research.                unit is not delayed.
1.2 Central TB control unit  * Review of National TB  * Central capacity is
established with clear        policy and guidelines.     strengthened from
responsibilities and roles to  * Specific research and   political or technical
implement and monitor         surveys.                   perspective.
DOTS in all sectors and    * Annual national TB        * Provinces have the
provinces.                    control report.            implementation
1.3 Legislations and policy  * Policy document.          capacity, especially in
statements on key issues                                 non-project areas.
related to TB control adopted                          * Lessons from policy
or disseminated.                                         piloted in project
1.4 All project provinces                                provinces are effectively
- 25 -



implementing NTP policy.                                disseminated to
1.5 Financing and                                       non-project areas.
implementation plan to                                * Involvement of multiple
deliver DOTS expansion                                  sectors at all levels by
nationally developed by                                 2003.
mid-2002 and operational by
2003.
1.6 Effective multi-sectoral
consultation processes
adopted and used at all level
by 2003.
1.7 Recommendations from
research and reviews on
improving access and quality
of care used to inform policy
making.
1.8 Full funding of required
central level activities by
government.
1.9 Funding necessary to
fully support critical program
components provided by
central and provincial budget
in a poverty-adjusted manner.
2. High case detection and  2.1 Expansion of a TB     * Mid-term review and    * Coverage of different
cure in project provinces  control program using the    end project report.      population and
achieved through          DOTS strategy to at least 95%  * Annual supervision    geographic areas reaches
DOTS-based services that  of the country's population by  report.                set target.
meet the needs of patients.  2008.                    * DOTS coverage survey.  * There is no shortfall of
2.2 Find at least 2 million  * Accessibility survey on  quality TB drugs.
smear-positive cases by 2008.  TB services.          * All areas are
2.3 Achieve new smear-      * Report on free treatment  implementing the DOTS
positive notification rate of 30  of smear negative    strategy according to
per 100,000 population by      patients.               established guidelines.
2008, with high case rates for  * Impact assessment  * Sufficient cooperation
all gender, poor, and         studies of IEC work.     between NTP and other
vulnerable groups.                                     institutions handling TB
2.4 Maintain cure rate of at                           suspects/cases.
least 85% for new                                    * The IEC materials are
smear-positive cases.                                  well prepared.
2.5 Results from social                              * DOTS is expanded to
assessments incorporated into                          sufficient areas in project
design of TB services.                                 provinces.
2.6 Pilot scheme for free                            * Other projects willing to
treatment of smear negative                            cooperate and coordinate.
patients carried out in two
provinces.
2.7 Increased awareness of
TB and a reduction in the
stigma associated with TB as
a result of IEC work.
3. Institutions and financing  3.1 Recommended number of  * Training courses with list  * The available local funds
to deliver NTP strengthened.  health workers trained   of participants.          are not used for activities
- 26 -



according to NTP guidelines  * Institutional survey on  unrelated to TB.
at all governmental levels.  staff and equipment     * Tumover of staffing for
3.2 All TB control           status.                    TB control is kept to a
institutions at and below the  * Annual report on rate of  minimum.
provincial level with         counterpart fund       * There are sufficient
recommended staffing and      available.                experts experienced in TB
equipment to implement NTP.  * Budget for TB control at  control to provide
3.3 An increasing percentage  county and provincial    training and technical
of funding for required      level.                     assistance to others.
program activities are                               * The 3-tier rural health
provided by central and                                 network is functioning
provincial governments over                             effectively in all areas.
time.
3.4 Funding necessary to
fully support critical program
components provided by
central and provincial budget
in a poverty-adjusted manner.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Strengthened National  US$4.49 million             * Progress reports.       * Timely and adequate
TB Policies and                                                                    counterpart funds.
Programmin2
1.1 Institutional Development
1.2 Policy and Program
Development
1.3 Coordination and
Management
2. Improved Access to and  US$196.76 million         * Progress reports.       * Timely and adequate
Ouality of TB Services at                                                         counterpart funds.
Province Level
2.1 Program Management
2.2 Service Delivery
2.3 Patient-focused
Innovations
3. Strengthened Institutions US$40.04 million         * Progress reports.      * Timely and adequate
and Financing to Deliver TB                                                       counterpart funds.
Program at Province Level
- 27 -



3.1 Institutional
Strengthening
3.2 Expanded Financing for
Sustainable TB Control
Fee                      US$1.04 million
- 28 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
1.     The project has three main components. Component 1, Strengthened National TB Policies and
Programming, will be implemented by the central level. Component 2, Improved Access to and Quality of
TB Services at Province Level, and Component 3, Strengthened Institutions and Financing to Deliver TB
Program at Province Level, will be implemented in sixteen provinces with 1,663 counties and a total
population of 688 million. The project provinces are: Chongqing, Fujian, Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou;
Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Neimongol, Shaanxi, Xinjiang, and Yunnan.
Detailed descriptions of each component are available in the project files, and in the Project Implementation
Plan.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.49 million
2.  Strengthened National TB Policies and Programming comprises three sub-components, including
institutional development, policy and program development, and program coordination and management at
the national level.
1.1   Institutional Development
3.     This sub-component will strengthen institutions at the national level, including: (a) the
establishment of a central project coordination group; (b) the strengthening of a central management unit
with sufficient resources to carry out national TB control program; and (c) the strengthening of a central
TB reference laboratory with required staff and resources.
4.     To better ensure the success of the project, a project coordinating group consisting of central
governmental leaders from different sectors including health, finance, and planning will be established to
oversee the progress of the project and resolve major problems when implementing the project. Resources
will be provided through the project to strengthen the central TB management unit and the central TB
reference laboratory. The project will ensure that the necessary staff, training, equipment, and funds are
provided to these central level institutions.
1.2    Policy and Program Development
5.     This sub-component will assist the Government at the central level to develop policy guidelines and
specific components of the national program needed to control TB. The development will be based upon
the experiences with implementation of the DOTS strategy and on consultations. This would include: (a)
development of detailed implementation plan for the national TB control program (NTP); (b) review of
existing and development of new NTP policies, and disseminate them; (c) development of a national health
education plan; and (d) coordination and implementation of program-oriented operations research activities.
6.     Although the overall plan for the national TB control programme (2001-2010) has been developed,
a detailed implementation plan for expanding the DOTS programme throughout the country has not been
developed. This implementation plan will be developed during the first year of this project. As part of the
national programme implementation, existing policies for TB control need to be reviewed and revised in
order to improve on the current programme. In addition, the programme will face new challenges, and new
policies will need to be developed and implemented in order to address these difficulties. For example,
- 29 -



control of `1B in the floating population, the emerging HIV and TB co-epidemics, use of combination
drugs, and the rising drug-resistant TB epidemic all require new policy and programme development. A
national he4lth education plan and a plan to carry out programme-oriented research activities will be
developed and implemented; research activities will focus mainly on operational research and social
assessment. The central unit is responsible for coordinating the national research activities and to build the
capacity for research. The formulation of various policies will utilize results from operational research
activities.
1.3    Coordination and Management
7.     This sub-component will help ensure the coordination and management of the implementation of
the project activities in the project provinces and develop system for adoption under NTP. The activities
will consist of: (a) development and implementation of evidence-based program management methods; (b)
improvement of provincial capacity to implement projects in line with NTP; and (c) procurement and
distribution of quality drugs and equipment.
8.     To improve the management of the national TB control programme, the project will develop and
implement an evidence-based programme management method. The "evidence-based" aspect will be linked
to the implementation of a national TB recording and reporting system that will provide TB data from
every province, prefecture/city, and county. Additional information on the programme will be collected
during field visits, through periodic surveys or assessments, and from drug-resistance surveillance studies
and other research projects. All information will be analyzed and used to guide the implementation of the
national programme. The central unit will use all available data during regular supervision visits to the
provinces to monitor programme implementation. To improve provincial capacity, the central TB unit will
provide technical assistance to provincial TB control units programme in all aspects of the national
programme. The mechanism to procure quality TB drugs and equipment will be developed and
implemented. A management system to distribute TB drugs will also be developed and implemented.
Project Component 2 - US$196.76 million
9.     Improved Access to and Quality of TB Services at Province Level represents the bulk of
activities under this project and focuses on the improvement of access and quality of TB control services in
the project provinces. This component comprises the following three sub-components:
2.1    Program Management
10.    This sub-component will consist of: (a) implementation of evidence-based program management,
and (b) improved management and usage of drugs and equipment.
11.   In all project provinces, prefectures/cities and counties, the national TB recording and reporting
system will be implemented. Periodic assessments and surveys will be carried out to provide additional
information on the programme. In addition, supervision of various aspects of the programme will be
carried out from the provincial to prefectural/city level, from the prefectural/city to the county level, from
the county to the township level, and from the township to the village level. The evidence-based
programme management method will be used by all provincial TB institutions. All provinces will carry out
drug-resistance surveillance studies to monitor the level of drug-resistant TB. The provinces will manage
the distribution of TB drugs as well as oversee the proper maintenance of essential equipment.
2.2    Service Delivery
- 30 -



12.    This sub-component consist of: (a) improved case detection; and (b) improved cure rate.
13.    A uniform approach to diagnose TB will be used in all project provinces using chest x-ray and
sputum microscopy as the principle means to evaluate patients when they present with symptoms. To
improve case detection, linkages between the TB dispensary and various medical institutions will be
strengthened. All identified smear-positive TB patients and smear-negative TB patients with cavitary or
miliary findings on chest x-ray will be treated free of charge using standardized TB treatment regimens. In
most cases, the village doctors will be responsible for observing a patient's intake of medications. A
reporting fee and a case management fee will be provided to those who report and manage TB patients,
respectively, in order to improve the reporting and the management of TB patients. New strategies to
improve case detection and cure rate will be evaluated and then implemented.
2.3    Patient-focused Innovations
14.    This sub-component will consist of: (a) implementation of program-oriented research activities,
(b) development and implementation of an action plan for IEC; (c) development and implementation of
programs to deliver DOTS to hard-to-reach populations; (d) pilot programs to prevent and treat
HIV-associated TB; and (e) pilot free treatment of smear-negative TB patients.
15.    To better meet the needs of patients in specific populations, social assessment activities will be
carried out in all project provinces. In addition, depending on the needs in specific provinces, other types of
operational research projects will be carried out. The national plan for health education will be
implemented in all project provinces, but the plan and the IEC materials may be modified by provinces
following social assessment activities. Several pilot projects to tackle difficult or emerging problems in TB
control will be implemented in the provinces, including DOTS implementation in hard-to-reach
populations, prevention and treatment of HIV-associated TB, and free treatment of smear-negative TB
patients.
Project Component 3 - US$ 40.04 million
16.    Strengthened Institutions and Financing to Deliver TB Program at Province Level will include
province level activities required to implement the project consistent with NTP. This component will have
the following two sub-components:
3.1    Institutional Strengthening
17.    The activities will include: (a) establishment of leading groups and project offices at provincial
and lower levels; (b) strengthening TB control institutions with sufficient financial resources, infrastructure
and equipment to carry out NTP activities; and (c) improvement of human resource capacity. The
institutions will continue their effectiveness during the ongoing health reform but the goal will be the
eventual integration of TB services into county health services.
18.    To strengthen the implementation of the project, government at the provincial and lower levels will
establish leading groups consisting of governmental leaders from different sectors. These groups will
oversee the progress of the project and resolve major problems that might arise during project
implementation. Resources will be provided through the project to strengthen the provincial,
prefectural/city, and county TB control institution, including the TB laboratory. The project will ensure
that the necessary staff, training, equipment, and funds are provided to these institutions. The project will
help ensure the presence or establishment of effective TB control institutions during a period of health
sector reform. To improve human resource capacity, training will be provided to staff at all levels and
technical assistance will be provided from higher to lower levels of the programme. A pilot project will be
- 31 -



carried out to determine the feasibility of integrating TB control services into the county TB health services,
e.g., into the hospital system. If the pilot is successful, this integration will be implemented in other areas.
3.2    Expanded Financing for Sustainable TB Control
19.    Under this sub-component, the provinces will: (a) develop plans for long-term sustainability of the
TB control program in their respective provinces; and (b) implement plans to assist poorer areas to
participate in the program, including facilitating government grants to poorer areas in order to support
critical program components like TB treatment.
20.    To better ensure the sustainability of the national TB control programme after project completion,
each province will develop a sustainability plan to control TB, including a financing plan to support critical
programme components such as free TB diagnosis and treatment at the end of the project. Each project
province will also develop and implement a plan to provide special assistance to poorer areas within the
province so that they can effectively implement the programme. Special emphasis will be placed on the use
of grants from central and provincial level to assist lower level of government, especially to support
funding of critical programme components.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million   US $million
1. Strengthened National TB Policies and Programming      0.00         0.00          0.00
1.1 Institutional Strengthening                           0.57         0.03          0.60
1.2 Policy and Program Development                        1.45         0.08          1.53
1.3 Coordination and Management                           2.00         0.00          2.00
2. Improved Access to and Quality of TB Services at Province  0.00      0.00         0.00
Level
2.1 Program Management                                   44.13          2.32        46.45
2.2 Service Delivery                                     83.85         27.95       111.80
2.3 Patient-focused Innovations                          21.22          1.12        22.34
3. Strengthened Institutions and Financing to Deliver TB  0.00          0.00         0.00
Program at Province Level
3.1 Institutional Strengthening                          30.64          1.61        32.25
3.2 Expanded Financing for Sustainable TB Control         4.49          0.00         4.49
Total Baseline Cost                                      188.35        33.11       221.46
Physical Contingencies                                   3.55          0.89         4.44
Price Contingencies                                      12.31         3.08        15.39
Total Project Costs'            204.21        37.08       241.29
Front-end fee                    1.04          1.04
Total Financing Required             204.21        38.12       242.33
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million  US $million
Equipment, Vehicles and Medical Supplies                   37.46         13.46        50.92
Works                                                       2.73          0.00         2.73
Training                                                   17.77          1.97         19.74
Consultant Services                                         5.61          0.62         6.23
Drugs                                                      28.70         19.13        47.83
Health Education                                           14.33          1.59         15.92
Program Support                                            91.88          0.00        91.88
Operations and Maintenance                                  5.73          0.30         6.03
Total Project Costs 1  204.21          37.07       241.28
Front-end fee                    1.04          1.04
Total Financing Required    204.21          38.11       242.32
Note: Differences due to rounding.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 242.33 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 42.92% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
Introduction
1.     This annex presents the economic analysis of the China Tuberculosis (TB) Control Project. The
project supports the effort of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to reduce tuberculosis morbidity and mortality
amongst the poorest populations through increased access to diagnosis and treatment as part of an effective
and sustainable Tuberculosis Control Program in China. The economic analysis of the project covers the
following: (a) rationale for public sector involvement and poverty impact of the project; (b) cost
effectiveness analysis of project interventions; (c) risk-sensitivity analysis; and (d) financial sustainability
of project interventions.
Rationale for Public Sector Involvement
2.     TB is major public health problem in China, with prevalence rates of active pulmonary TB of 367
per 100,000 population, bacteriological-positive pulmonary TB of 160 per 100,000 population, smear
positive pulmonary TB of 122 per 100,000 population (a decrease of 21 percent since 1990), and the TB
mortality rate was 9.8/100,000 persons (a reduction of 53 percent since 1989). It is estimated that there
are approximately five million people with infectious active pulmonary TB and over two million are
smear-positive cases. TB is the leading cause of deaths from infectious diseased in China with 150,000
people dying from TB each year. With the lack of an effective TB control program in nearly half of China,
there could be an epidemic of drug-resistant TB in the country. Although high levels of drug-resistant TB
have been reported in some areas, there are few well-conducted studies of drug-resistant TB. The Ministry
of Health, in collaboration with WHO, is currently conducting studies in several provinces to assess the
magnitude of this problem.
3.     The TB epidemic is worse in the twelve westem provinces (autonomous regions, municipality)
where the prevalence of infectious TB is 199/100,000 persons. With the industrialization of China over
recent years, there has been a steady migration of the rural population into cities and towns, leading to a
worsening of the TB epidemic situation in urban areas, and consequently a spread of the TB epidemic in
the country.
4.     Jack (2001) argues that there are strong reasons to favor public intervention in TB control due to
the special characteristics of the disease. First, there are contemporaneous extemalities associated with
detection and treatment because of its contagious nature. Second, especially early in the course of the
disease, individuals may not feel the need to seek diagnosis of TB because the symptoms associated with
TB (e.g., cough) are similar to those for other diseases. Third, because full treatment requires extended
drug therapy over 6-8 months, incomplete treatment is common and this contributes to drug resistant
disease. Finally, tuberculosis is a disease of the poor and public intervention in its detection and treatment
could be an effective part of a poverty reduction program.
5.     The Fourth National Epidemiological Survey 2000, estimates that 80 percent of TB patients
surveyed are agricultural workers, herders, forestry or fishery workers and have per capita household
incomes below the average per capita household incomes of those in their communities. In addition, it was
found that lack of knowledge about the disease and financial problems were the two main reasons why TB
patients did not seek care. Symptomatic TB patients who did not seek medical assistance because they
lacked knowledge about TB totaled 53.3 percent, and those who did not seek assistance because they had
- 34 -



financial difficulties made up 36.9 percent of those surveyed.
6.     The project covers sixteen provinces with a population of 688 million (53 percent of the country's
population) - covering 82.22 million minorities (11.9 percent of project population) and 31.12 million that
is part of floating population (4.5 percent of project population). The following criteria were used in the
selection of project provinces:
*      Provinces with a more serious TB epidemic.
*      Provinces in the Western and other poverty-stricken parts of China.
*      Provinces where the DOTS strategy is just being implemented or will be implemented but
the necessary financing is lacking.
Provinces that have made a commitment to and have the ability to take a loan, repay a
loan, provide counterpart funds, and sustain the project.
Social and Economical Status in Each Project Provinces in 1999
Province    Per capita                       Poverty-stricken counties
GDP           National level     Provincial level      Population of
of each                                               poverty-stricken
province                                                 counties (in
(in RMB                                                    million)
_yuan*)
Xinjiang        6470                25                  5                  4.64
Gansu           3668               41                  12                  16.73
Shaanxi         4101               50                  19                  2.78
Chongqing       4826                12                  8                  16.12
Yunnan          4452               73                   0                 22.51
Guizhou         2475               48                   0                  19.83
Inner           5350                31                 19                  11.90
Mongolia
Guangxi         4148               28                  22                  8.50
Henan           4894               28                   5                 23.45
Hubei           6514               20                  13                  17.83
Hunan           5227                10                 21                  15.20
Hebei           6932               40                   6                  15.72
Liaoning        10086               9                   2                  5.23
Fujian          10797               8                  11                  7.18
Jiangxi         4661                18                 26                  19.23
Jilin           6341                5                   5                  3.31
Total                             446                 174                210.16
* I US$=8.3 RMB Yuan.
Summary of benefits and costs:
7.     Economic benefits of project interventions are analyzed in terms of lives saved and smear positive
TB cases averted. It must be noted however, that this is an underestimate of the actual economic impact of
project interventions. Other benefits not quantified here include cost savings from lower health care
- 35 -



treatment costs, psychological benefits of a healthy population, poverty reduction (nearly 25.4 percent of
the population covered are from poverty stricken counties) and improved productivity and efficiency among
current and future workers (nearly 75 percent of TB patients in China are between the ages of 15 and 54).
8.     The project would, under modest assumptions, avert 529,208 smear positive TB cases and 128,421
deaths. Over the seven year lifetime of the project, the effect will be a gain of 2,996,940 Discounted
Healthy Life Years (DHLY) at a cost of US$53.43 per DHLY gained. Results of risk-sensitivity analysis
show that a 30 percent reduction in project benefits, would result in 2,101,248 DHLY gained at a cost of
US$76.21 per DHLY gained. A 50 percent reduction in project benefits, would result in 1,442,167 DHLY
gained at a cost of US$111.04 per DHLY gained.
Main Assumptions:
9.     This section compares the costs of the program with the measurable economic benefits that arise
from the implementation of the project. The project targets a population of 688.34 million in 16 provinces
in China. Of these, seven provinces were covered under the earlier World Bank project (IEDC project)
which was successful in reducing smear positive TB prevalence to 90 per 100,000 population in the project
provinces. Between 1992 to 1999, more than 1.1 million smear-positive cases were detected and, because
case management was strengthened, the project achieved an overall cure rate of 93.6%.
10.   The projected evolution of smear positive TB prevalence in the base case is one where there is no
project intervention. It is assumed that in this case the smear positive TB prevalence will reduce by the
same extent as it did in the non-IEDC project provinces (i.e., by 3.2 percent) between 1990 and 2000 and
TB mortality rates per 100,000 population will reduce by one percent during the ten year period of
2000-2010. Under the project intervention, it is assumed that the smear positive TB prevalence rates will
fall by about three-quarters of the rate as it did in IEDC provinces between 1990 and 2000 (i.e., by 27.5
percent). TB mortality rate is assumed to decline by 53 percent from 9.8 per 100,000 population to 4.6 per
100,000 by 2010 as it did between 1990 and 2000.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
11.   The cost of the project at the provincial level amounts to US$160.14 million. Compared to the
base case scenario, 529,208 smear positive TB cases and 128,421 deaths are averted by the project's
interventions. Suppose the number of discounted healthy life years (DHLYs) gained per smear positive TB
case averted is two months' of a healthy life and per death averted is 22.65 years respectively. Over the
seven year lifetime of the project, the effect will be a gain of 2,996,940 DHLYs at a cost of US$53.43 per
DHLY gained,' which compares with US$30 for the expanded program of immunization (EPI) usually
considered one of the most cost-effective interventions in the health sector.
Risk/Sensitivity Analysis:
12.   It is assumed here that project could face the risk of a direct reduction in expected benefits due to
lower than expected reductions in the number of cases averted and reduced mortality. This would result
due to a lower than expected effectiveness in the TB program. A 30 percent reduction in project benefits
due to lower than expected reductions in the number of cases averted and reduced mortality, would result in
2,101,248 DHLYs gained at a cost of US$76.21 per DHLY gained. A 50 percent reduction in project
benefits, would result in 1,442,167 DHLYs gained at a cost of US$111.04 per DHLY gained.
- 36 -



Financial Sustainability:
13.    The Government of China began implementing the DOTS strategy in 1992 financed mainly
through two projects - the IEDC Project (Cr. 2317-CHA) funded partly by the World Bank which
covered 560 million in 13 provinces, and the Ministry of Health TB Strengthening Project, which covered
160 million approximately in twelve counties each in 15 provinces.
14.    The financing of the IEDC project came from three sources - loan, local government funds and
patient fess. Approximately 55 percent of the IEDC project's costs were financed through local
government recurrent budget (for salaries and TB infrastructure) or local government counterpart funds
(for diagnosis, case management and project management) earmarked for this purpose. The loan (used
mainly to procure anti-TB drugs, medical equipment, foreign technical assistance, training and part of
patient management fee) only accounted for 25 percent of the total project costs - the balance was paid by
patients either through direct payments or insurance payments (primarily for treatment of the less serious
smear-negative TB cases). However, in a quarter of the project counties less than 80 percent of the
counterpart funds needed were actually allocated. In some others, the counterpart fund was not allocated
on time, thus negatively impacting the normal operation of the project.
15.    The MOH funded project has a budget of three million RMB and requires matching counterpart
funds from provinces and counties. In this project, central, provincial and county level governments each
provide 10,000 RMB respectively for TB control. In addition, the municipalities of Beijing, Tianjin and
Shanghai have allocated specific funds for TB control, including a certain amount for provision of free
drugs for patients with economic difficulties.
16.    For the remaining 480 million population in the counties not covered by these projects, there are no
special expenditures earmarked for TB control in their provincial budgets.
17.    Two issues regarding financial sustainability of the project that arise from the experience of the
IEDC project are: (a) can provincial and local governments afford counterpart financing during
implementation especially in the poor provinces?; and (b) can provincial and local governments continue to
sustain the TB Control Program in China's decentralized system beyond project implementation? These
were given particular attention during project preparation.
18.    The overall investment of this project is estimated at US$242.33 million. Of this, US$104.0
million, making up 43 percent of the project total, will be provided by the World Bank loan blended with
the DFID grant; US$99.8 million, making up 41 percent of the total, will be provided by local
governments; and US$38.5 million, about 16 percent of the total, will be provided by central government
including any external resources which the government may mobilize. Under the project, central and
provincial government will provide special assistance to poverty areas. Central Government's funds will
primarily be directed to assist western and poor non-western provinces and will mainly be used for drugs,
injection syringes and water. Each province has developed similar approaches to assist poverty areas in
their own province and each expects to further increase such assistance. The following commitments have
already been received from various provinces to provide the counterpart funds for their national or
provincial designated poverty counties:
(a)    Xinjiang, Chongqing, Hunan, Fujian, Inner Mongolia (Neimenggu), Henan, Liaoning,
Gansu, and Guangxi: 100 percent of counterpart funding for all poverty counties provided
by provincial or prefecture governments, or both; ratio of provincial to prefectural
- 37 -



contributions vary (Xinjiang, Chongqing, Hunan, Gansu, Guangxi and Fujian, all 100
percent provided by province; Inner Mongolia, 70:30; Henan, 55:45; and Liaoning, 50:50);
(b)    Yunnan, Guizhou, Hebei, Shaanxi: 64-99 percent of counterpart funding for all poverty
counties provided by provincial or prefectural government, or both (Yunnan, 64 percent;
Guizhou, 75 percent; Hebei, 81 percent; and Shaanxi, 95.5 percent); and
(c)    Jiangxi, Hubei, Jilin: 30-50 percent of counterpart funding for all poverty counties
provided by provincial or prefectural government (Jiangxi, 30 percent; Hubei, 47 percent;
and Jilin, 50 percent).
In addition, eight provinces also provided some counterpart funding for counties not designated as poverty
counties.
19.    The financial sustainability of the project beyond implementation would require that the recurrent
costs of TB control met by the project can be incorporated into provincial budgets after 2008. The
recurrent expenditures funded under the project are costs of diagnosis, treatment, case management, and
supervision, and are expected to remain beyond project implementation. Assuming that case detection rates
after the project remain unchanged and that health budgets as a percentage of GDP are maintained at
current levels, the recurrent expenditures of the TB program would represent between 0.06 percent and
0.09 percent of the total health spending in these sixteen provinces. If the counterpart funds as well as the
grant funds provided by the central and provincial governments under the project can be earmarked for the
TB program beyond project implementation, the expected recurrent costs of the TB program could be
sustained.
20.    While China can easily afford to sustain its National TB program, the main problem has been
commitment on the part of the provinces. However, it is expected that given the pace of China's economic
development, anticipated success of the TB program, and the future decline in TB cases, provincial
commitment to support TB control will significantly increase.
End Notes:
1. Fourth National Epidemiological Survey, 2000.
2. William Jack (February 2001) "The public economics of tuberculosis control," to be published in Health Policy.
3. Implicit in the prevalence rate is the cure rate. The cure rate for the IEDC project provinces was approximately
93.6 percent. It is assumed here that the proposed project's interventions will result in a cure rate of around 85
percent.
4. Assumed is equivalent to the intensive phase of TB treatment under DOTS.
5. Calculated using current life expectancy at 34.5 years of 70 years for TB patients and assuming TB patents live
at least two years after the onset of the disease, discounted at a rate of 3 percent. Based on these assumptions,
averting a adult death would result in gaining 22.65 DHLYs.
6. This result is calculated as US$160.14 divided by 2,996,940 (=529,208*2/12 + 128421*22.65).
- 38 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
Years Ending
December 31
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4     Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          24.3      23.3       21.1      16.9      12.6       12.6     12.7
Recurrent Costs           12.1       15.0      16.7       17.2      18.2      18.9      19.7
Total Project Costs         36.4      38.3       37.8      34.1      30.8       31.5     32.4
Front-end fee    1.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             37.4      38.3       37.8      34.1      30.8       31.5     32.4
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 20.3       18.8      16.7       12.5       9.6      12.7      13.4
Government               17.1       19.5      21.0       21.7      21.2      18.8      19.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    37.4       38.3      37.7      34.2       30.8     31.5       32.4
Main assumptions:
- 39-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
Procurement
Summary of the Assessment of Agencies' Procurement Capacity
1.     This project will be the tenth health project financed by Bank in China. The project provinces have
implemented at least one of the previous nine projects. Under the project, a Central Procurement
Management Office (CPMO), in the Ministry of Health, will be responsible for overall coordination of all
procurement under the project and in particular will handle all ICB procurement. A Provincial
Procurement Management Office (PPMO), established under the health bureau of each project
provinces/autonomous region, will be responsible to carry out NCB and National Shopping for its
respective project activities.
2.     Assessment of the procurement capacity of the CPMO and PPMOs was carried out by sending
questionnaires to all of the sixteen project provinces, and by assessing their written feedback. In addition,
field assessments were done for three project provinces. The assessment found that CPMO and PPMOs
should be capable of managing all procurement activities satisfactorily. Staff members who were involved
in previous Bank-financed health projects are familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures. The need
for strengthening the agencies' procurement capacity has been identified and an action plan was prepared
during the assessment. The action plan includes the preparation and dissemination of a project
procurement manual, seminars on preparation of bidding specifications, and training of PPMO staff on
NCB and National Shopping procurement procedures.
3.     The assessment identified some shortcomings in the general procurement framework in China,
including some aspects of the bidding law for construction projects that became effective January 1, 2000.
The shortcomings are summarized in Appendix 6-1 to this annex. These are country-wide issues that are
being addressed in an ongoing dialogue between the Government of China (GOC) and the Bank. The
bidding law does make an exception for procurement financed by loans, or aid from intemational
institutions, or foreign governments that require different procedures. Accordingly, MOH and the project
provinces have agreed to follow Bank guidelines wherever there are differences between these and national
procedures.
4.     Another concem identified during the assessment is the weak capacity of the implementing agencies
in preparation of the technical specifications for bidding documents. Specifications should be prepared
according to the objectives of the project, the detailed needs of the end users, and the products of
prospective sources, and ensure fair competition to have an economical procurement. Some PMOs do not
have adequate information of the products in the market when they prepare specifications. Specifications
are often prepared solely on the basis of a certain manufacturer's catalogue, or the end user's needs without
proper assessment. End users' needs for goods should be assessed cautiously, particularly in cases where
end users lack sufficient motivation to conduct an economical procurement. Inadequate bidding
specifications can result in rejection of all bids and cause serious delays by lengthy disputes during bid
evaluation. In some cases, specifications are prepared to target one manufacturer and exclude other
manufacturers. Competitive procurement is spoiled by such bidding specifications. CPMO would be
required to submit proposals to strengthen the capacity of preparation of bidding specifications.
-40 -



Procurement Arrangements
5.     Procurement Plan. Detailed procurement plans for CPMO and PPMOs will be prepared and
included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), including procurement packaging and progress schedule.
6.     Procurement Procedures. The following Bank guidelines will govern all Bank-financed
procurement under the project:
For Works and Goods. Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995
and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).
For the Selection of Consultants. Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (dated January 1997 and revised September 1997 and January 1999).
7.     Format of the Documentation. The following formats will apply:
Evaluation reports. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form, Procurement of Goods or Works
(dated April 1996, translated into Chinese by MOF May 1997), and Sample Form of Evaluation
Report for Selection of Consultants (dated October 1999).
Model Bidding Documents. The Bank-approved Chinese Model Bidding Documents (MBD)
(dated May 1997, prepared by MOF based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents [SBDs])
will be adopted for all ICB and NCB activities for goods.
Standard Bidding Documents. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of
Health Sector Goods (dated May 2000) will be used for procurement of drugs.
Project-Specific Document. A model procurement document for goods and works using National
Shopping procedures will be prepared CPMO for use by PPMOs.
Revisions to Model Bidding Documents. The amendments included in the Bank's updated SBD
for Procurement of Goods (dated January 1995 and revised March 2000 and January 2001), which
have not yet been included in the MBD, dated May 1997, will be incorporated into the bidding
documents used for works and goods contracts.
8.     Domestic Preference. For goods contracts, qualified domestic bidders will be eligible for a
preference equal to 15 percent of the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) price, or the sum of the customs
duties and import tax payable by a non-exempt importer, whichever is less.
9.     Advertisement. The General Procurement Notice will be published in United Nations
Development Business and will be updated every year until all major ICB procurement activities and major
consultant assignments have been completed.
10.    Specific Procurement Notices for all ICB and NCB procurement activities, as well as invitations
for expressions of interest for consulting contracts, will be published in at least one newspaper with a
national circulation.
11.    The Government will provide part of the TB drugs to some of the project provinces. This portion
- 41 -



of the drugs will be financed by a special grant of GOC under the National TB Program. It will be
centrally procured and distributed to the provinces following the GOC govemment procurement
procedures.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
12.    The China NCB procedures for goods and works have been reviewed by the Bank and some
deviations were found in the intemal procurement procedures, such as bracketing and merit point system
used in prequalification and bid evaluation. The Implementation Agencies are fully committed to strictly
comply with the Bank's procurement procedures/policies for the Bank-financed contracts. In case there are
any discrepancies between local policy and the Bank's requirement, the Bank policy and guidelines will
prevail.
13.    Civil Works (US$2.7 million including contingencies) will be confined to minor repairs of existing
buildings, and installation of x-ray protection barriers. As the civil works are spread across sixteen
provinces, many of the facilities are in remote locations, and as construction will be spread over time due to
factors such as planning procedures and climate, the work is unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders,
and is not amenable to consolidation for larger procurement packages. Therefore, the value of work on any
individual health facility is expected to be less than US$100,000. Small works contracts, each costing less
than US$100,000, not to exceed US$2.73 million in the aggregate, will be procured under lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors, in
response to a written invitation.
14.    Goods (US$102.8 million including contingencies). Goods including equipment, vehicles, medical
supplies, drugs, materials, and radio and television spots to be financed by the project will be procured
under the following procedures:
ICB. About US$57.6 million of goods (including US$13.7 million for drugs) will be procured
using ICB procedures. This represents about 56 percent of total goods procurement.
NCB. Items (excluding drugs) estimated to cost between US$30,000 and US$300,000 per contract
will be procured using NCB procedures, not to exceed US$8.3 million in the aggregate.
National Shopping. It is expected that some goods will not be procured in large packages given
that the project covers sixteen provinces, each with diverse requirements in terms of timing and
specifications. This is coupled with central and provincial government requests to decentralize
some procurement to provincial level to increase administrative control and efficiency. Therefore,
certain goods (excluding drugs) such as some office equipment, heaters, and refrigerators, etc.,
would be procured by each of the provinces by National Shopping. Other items or groups of items
estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract, not to exceed US$2.77 million in the
aggregate, will be procured by National Shopping as stated in Articles 3.5 and 3.6 of the
guidelines. National Shopping will be conducted on the basis of a comparison of at least three
written price quotations.
Consultant Services and Training (US$29.9 million including contingencies).
15.    Consultant Services. Contracts for consultant services will be packaged to combine related skills
and services, in order to make them attractive and expand competition. Consultant services consist of
short- and long-term assignments to be contracted to firms and/or individuals (local and/or foreign or
- 42 -



jointly) depending on the nature and duration of the assignments. The procurement of consultant services
contracts will be in accordance with the provisions of the Bank Consultant Guidelines. Most consultant
services will be for contracts less than US$ 100,000, and notices for contracts will be published in the
national press following issuance of annual GPNs. For consulting assignments exceeding US$200,000,
expressions of interest will be obtained by advertisement in the Development Business, supplemented with
notices issued in the national press. The following procurement procedures will be used for Bank-financed
consultant services: (a) Quality-Based Selection (QBS) for complex or highly specialized assignments; (b)
,Least-Cost Selection (LCS) for assignments of a standard or routine nature, estimated to cost less than
US$200,000; (c) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (SBCQ) for very small assignments for
which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not justified, estimated to cost less
than US$200,000; (d) Individual Consultants (IC) for specialized activities under the project to assist the
implementing units, particularly with decentralized interventions, through the recruitment of individual
consultants (both foreign and Chinese nationals), estimated to cost less than US$100,000; and (e)
Single-Source Selection (SSS), for the National TB Reference Laboratory, to carry out TB drug-resistance
surveillance (DRS) studies in each project province, up to an aggregate limit of US$100,000. This SSS is
justified on the basis that, as part of the World Health Organization's global network for TB DRS, and to
ensure the quality of data from the network, WHO has designated the National TB Reference Laboratory to
carry out TB DRS in China. The Bank will review progress reports and annual plans for consulting
services for central and provincial levels.
16.    Training (US$19.7 million). Training is an integral element of the project's institutional capacity
building objectives. The Loan will finance training programs including short-term fellowships, domestic
and international study tours, and local training of health sector and other eligible personnel through
periodic seminars, workshops and conferences. Such training programs would be organized by MOH's
National TB Program Office, MOH's National TB Control Center, and other relevant institutions. The
topics covered under these training programs and the participants/target audience are widely varied.
Expenditures related to local training programs include: (a) trainer fees, transportation cost to city where
training is held, per diems of training participants (local transportation, lodging and subsistence); (b)
organizational costs of training; and (c) training materials and handouts. The local training venues could
be selected from major health facilities (e.g., district hospitals) or training/conference centers. Trainees are
expected to converge in these training loci coming from their localities and would be lodged for the duration
of the workshops/seminars. For fellowships and study tours, expenditures include training fees and costs
charged by the training institution, leaming/course materials, domestic or international travel and visa costs
(if applicable), per diems (local transportation, lodging and subsistence costs), and course-related tours.
Specifically, for training programs:
(a)    Seminars and Workshops. MOH would develop and submit for the Bank's prior review an
initial program for carrying out the in-country training workshops, seminars and
conferences. Each county's annual training program would be reviewed at the provincial
level; each province's training plan will be submitted to the MOH and to the Bank for
review. This training plan would include: the content, identification of the training
participants/audience, cost estimates of the inputs, and the training schedule/timing.
Expenditure items for carrying out the in-country workshops would be supported by
Statements of Expenditures (SOE). The status of the training plan would be included as
part of the quarterly progress reports, and would be updated or modified as may be
mutually agreed between the MOH and the Bank.
(b)    Fellowships and Study Tours. MOH would develop an initial plan for fellowships and
study tours (domestic and international) and submit this to the Bank for prior review. The
- 43 -



training plan for Study Tours will include: the purpose, names and titles/positions of the
participants, itinerary and estimated costs. For Fellowships Training, information would
include: names and qualifications of the candidates, course of study and duration,
proposed training institution, and the costs. Fellowships and Study Tours would normally
be limited to short-term training programs and tours (about four weeks for study tours and
three months for fellowships). Expenditure items for tours and training abroad would be
supported by SOEs. The status of the training plan would be included as part of the
quarterly progress reports, and would be updated and/or modified as may be mutually
agreed between the MOH and the Bank.
17.    Program Support (US$99.8 million including contingencies) will include: surveillance and
monitoring activities, logistical support, information collection and reporting, workshops (excluding
training materials), non-medical supplies and materials, transportation and accommodations (excluding
training-related expenses), and consumable materials, but excluding staff salaries. Program support is
critical to reverse the recent decline in availability of funds for the management and maintenance of
preventive health care programs. In addition, by demonstrating the benefits of adequate program support,
the project would increase internal support for such expenditures in the Government. For these reasons,
financing of program support will be on a fixed rather than declining basis.
Thresholds for Prior Review (Table B)
18.    Prior review by the Bank of all stages of the bidding process will be required for: (a) the first two
contracts for goods to be procured by each province using NCB; (b) the first two small works contracts to
be procured by each province; and (c) all contracts for goods and works under the project procured using
ICB.
19.    For consultant services, contracts with firrns of US$100,000 equivalent or more and contracts with
individuals of US$50,000 equivalent or more will require the Bank's prior review. For training, the
following would be subject to the Bank's prior review: (a) initial program for carrying out the in-country
training workshops, seminars and conferences; and (b) initial plan for fellowships and study tours
(domestic and international).
Post Review
20.    It is expected that post review of documents related to 25 percent of contracts and direct purchases
will be conducted according to Bank guidelines. This arrangement will be assessed during the Mid-term
Evaluation, and if indicated the percentage may be reviewed.
-44 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB          Other'       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         2.73         0.00        2.73
(0.00)          (0.00)       (2.73)       (0.00)      (2.73)
2. Goods                            43.93           8.24         2.75         0.00       54.92
(34.15)         (6.40)        (2.13)      (0.00)      (42.69)
3. Services, Training,              0.00            0.00         29.95        0.00       29.95
T. A., and Operational Research     (0.00)         (0.00)       (17.80)       (0.00)     (17.80)
4. Program Support                  0.00            0.00         99.82        0.00       99.82
(0.00)          (0.00)       (26.02)      (0.00)     (26.02)
5. Drugs 3/                         13.74           0.00         0.00         34.11      47.84
(13.74)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (13.74)
6. Operation & Maintenance          0.00            0.00         0.00         6.03        6.03
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
7. Fee                              0.00            0.00         1.04         0.00        1.04
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.04)       (0.00)     (1.04)
Total                            57.67           8.24         136.28       40.14      242.33
(47.89)         (6.40)       (49.71)       (0.00)    (104.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through National Shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) relending project funds to local government units.
3/ Drugs not financed by the Bank will be provided as an in-kind contribution by the government.
Note: Differences due to rounding.
- 45 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                    > US$100,000                ICB            All ICB contracts; and the
< US$ 100,000           Small Works        first two works contracts
from each province.
2. Goods                    > US$300,000                ICB             All ICB contracts; and
< US$300,000                NCB            the first two contracts for
< US$30,000           National Shopping   goods to be procured using
NCB from each province.
3. Services                 > US$200,000                QBS            US$100,000 for firms; and
Firms                       < US$200,000          QBS, LCS, SBCQ       US$50,000 for individuals
Individuals                 < US$100,000        QBS, LCS, SBCQ, IC
< US$100,000                SSS
4. Training                     N/A                    Other          Initial program for carrying
out the in-country training
workshops, seminars and
conferences; and initial
plan for fellowships and
study tours (domestic and
international).
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$57.6 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement activities will be managed out of the Beijing Office by procurement specialists.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 46 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
I .    It is expected that the proposed loan of US$104.0 million would be disbursed over a period of
approximately seven years. The closing date is March 15, 2010. The allocation of loan proceeds
according to expenditure category is outlined in Table C.
2.     To ensure timely start-up of the project, retroactive financing of up to US$ 10.0 million would be
available for payments made for eligible expenditures incurred after September 1, 2001.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Works                                      2.49                         80%
Goods:                                                    100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and
75% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(a) Drugs                                 12.60
(b) Goods under Direct Payment             1.00
Contract
(c) Others (excluding supplies under      38.17
Program Support)
Consutlants' Services for:
(b) Operational Studies                   4.08                         90%
(b) Others                                2.49                         100%
Training:                                   9.73
(a) International                                                      100%
(b) Domestic                                                           60%
Program Support                            23.90                        60%
Unallocated                                 8.50
Total Project Costs                        102.96
Front-end fee          1.04
Total                                      104.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
3.     Reimbursement will be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures for the following:
*   Works under contracts, each costing less than US$300,000 equivalent;
*   Goods (including drugs) under contracts, each costing less than US$300,000 equivalent;
*   Consulting services under contracts awarded to consulting firms, each costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent;
*   Consulting services under contracts awarded to individual consultants, each costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent;
*   Training regardless of the cost; and
- 47 -



*   Program support regardless of the cost.
4.     The documentation will be made available for the required audits as well as to the Bank
supervision mission, and will be retained by FLO in MOH and the Project Management Offices for at least
one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
All other disbursements from the loan would be against full documentation. The processing, disbursement
and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Loan and Borrower counterpart financing would be
managed by FLO in coordination and consultation with MOF.
Special account:
5.     To facilitate disbursement under this project, one Special Account will be established and MOF
will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of the Special
Account activities of the project. A second-generation Special Account will be also established at and
managed by the provincial finance bureau of each project province. The Special Account would be
established in US dollars, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local
expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted every six months
or whenever the Account has been drawn down by about 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first. The aggregate initial deposit for the Special Account is US$10.0 million.
- 48 -



Appendix 6-1
Summary of Deviations of the Chinese Bidding Law
from Bank Guidelines in Respect of ICB Goods Procurement
Funds for procurement. The Bidding Law requires that the purchaser possess or secure sources for the
funds required for the procurement before carrying out bidding for the procurement and that he clearly
specify such information in the bidding documents. The Bank has no such requirement.
Advertisement. The Bidding Law allows the invitation for bids to be announced in newspapers and other
media, including information networks or others. The Bank requires advertisement in a national daily
newspaper.
Time for bid preparation and submission. The Bidding Law sets the minimum time for bid preparation
and submission as 20 days. The Bank generally requires 45 days for ICB contracts and 30 days for NCB
contracts.
Minimum number of bids. The Bidding Law requires rebidding if fewer than three bids are received. The
Bank allows evaluation of a single bid.
Bid evaluation. The Bidding Law allows bids to be evaluated by scoring method and stipulates that a bid
of less than cost must be rejected. However, the Bidding Law does not have provisions for determining the
cost. This approach is unacceptable to the Bank. Evaluation must be on the basis of price.
-49-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16                           20
First Bank mission (identification)             07/15/2000                   07/12/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     09/05/2001                   09/21/2001
Negotiations                                     10/23/2001                  01/28/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/24/2002
Prepared by:
Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance:
PHRD TF026428; PHRD TF026607.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jagadish Upadhyay                  Task Team Leader
Enis Baris                         Senior Public Health Specialist
Darren Dorkin                      Operations Analyst
Rekha Menon                        Economist
Wang Shiyong                       Health Specialist
Chau-Ching Shen                    Senior Financial Management Specialist
Wang Haiyan                        Disbursement Specialist
Li Xiaoping                        Procurement Specialist
Joan Morgan-Nicholson              Administrative Support
Richard Skolnik                    Peer Reviewer
Diana Weil                         Peer Reviewer
Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine        Peer Reviewer
Carlos Escudero                    Chief Counsel
Margaret Png                       Senior Counsel
Nina Eejima                        Counsel
Akihiko Nishio                     China Country Program Coordinator
Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun               Chief, LOAG3
Simon Bradbury                    Lead Financial Management Specialist
Jose Molina                        Senior Financial Officer
DFID staff who worked on the project included:
John Gordon, former China Programme Manager and currently Senior Health Adviser (Asia), DFID
London; Jane Haycock, Health Adviser, DFID Office Beijing; Graeme Buckley, Economic Adviser for
China, DFID London; Stephen Kidd, Social Development Adviser for China, DFID London; and Susan
Roberts, Deputy Programme Manager, China.
- 50 -



Other specialists who worked on the project included:
Dr. Daniel P. Chin, Country Adviser in Tuberculosis, World Health Organization, Beijing; Dr. Peter
Gondrie, Tuberculosis Specialist, KNCV, Netherlands; and Jessica Ogden, Senior Lecturer, Social
Anthropology, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.
- 51 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.     Project Implementation Plan for the China TB Control Project. January 9, 2002.
2.     Provincial Project Proposals. Revised for Appraisal. August 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Identification, Preparation, Pre-appraisal, and Appraisal aide memoires and back-to-office reports.
2.     Financial Management Assessment, August 30, 2001.
3.     Procurement Assessment, September 12, 2001.
C. Other
1.     Joint Technical Review, January 29, 2001.
2.     Program Management and Technical Guidelines, February 1, 2002.
3.     Ethnic Minorities Development Strategy, February 1, 2002.
*Including electronic files
- 52 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                 GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig_ Frm Rev'd
P058846        2002 National Railway Project                         1e0.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     160.00       0.00      0.00
P045915        2001 Urumqi Urban Transport                            100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      86.04      20.34      0.00
P058845        2001 Jiangxi II Hw                                     200.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     200.00       2.67      0.00
P047345        2001 CH-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL                   105.50      0.00                  0.00      0.00     1 05.50      0.00      0.00
P056596        2001 Shijiazhuarig Urban Transport                     100.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      99.00      21.57      0.00
P056516        2001 WATER CONSERVATION                                 74.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      68.57       5.15      0.00
P056199        2001 Third Inland Waterways                            100.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     100.00       1.25      0.00
P051859        2001 CH-LIAO RIVER BASIN                              1100.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     100.00       0.00      0.00
P058844        2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                                150.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     133.22       5.22      0.00
P058843        2000 Guangxi Highway                                   200.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     182.03      33.70      0.00
P056424        2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                              320.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     318.00      41.07      0.00
P084730        2000 Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project                210.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     196.63      69.55      0.00
P049436        2000 CN-CHONGOING URBAN ENVIRONMENT                    200.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     194.00      15.97      0.00
P042109        2000 CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT It                         349.00      0.00                 25.00      0.00     357.72      69.69      0.00
P045264        2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                               93.50      0.00                  0.00      0.00      63.23      22.50      0.00
P045910        2000 CH-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        150.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    142.06      15.73      0.00
P036953        1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                       10.00     50.00                  0.00       0.00     44.91       8.08      0.00
P049665        1999 ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                               90.00     30.00                  0.00       0.00     60.10       5.77      0.00
P051705        1999 Fujiang 11 Highway                                200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    149.57      77.32       0.00
P050036        1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                              200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    118.75      28.09       0.00
P003653        1999 Container Transport                                71.00      0.00                  0.00       3.13     43.22      45.89       0.00
P043933        1999 CH-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      150.00      2.00                  0.00       0.00    100.90      26.92       3.70
P046051        1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                             20.00     50.00                  0.00       0.00     32.07      27.69       0.00
P042299        1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                                 10.00     35.00                  0.00       0.00     39.18      -3.43       0.00
P946564        1999 Gansu & Inner Mongolia Poverty Reduction           80.00    100.00                  0.00       0.00    107.97      33.43       0.00
P046829        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                      100.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     12.87      64.87       0.00
P041890        1999 Liaoning Urban Transport                          150.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     79.31      39.78       0.00
P051856        1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM & DEVELOPMENT                    27.40      5.60                  0.00       0.00     22.77      21.08       0.00
P057352        1999 CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                           16.00     30.00                  0.00       0.00     37.69      14.38       0.00
P058308        1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                               0.00      5.00                  0.00       0.00      3.98       4.02       0.00
P060270        1999 CN-ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                             0.00      5.00                  0.00       0.00      4.68       6.66       0.00
P063123        1999 YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                               40.00     40.00                  0.00       0.00      0.47       1.19       1.19
P038121        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                        0.00      0.00                 35.00       0.00     26.46      10.56       0.00
P041268        1999 Nat Hwy4lHubei-Hunran                             350.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    230.74      59.41       0.00
P051888        1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                               80.00     20.00                  0.00       0.00     70.00      27.82       0.00
P056216        1999 LOESS PLATEAU 11                                  100.00     50.00                  0.00       0.00     103.30     53.84       0.00
P035698        1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                              300.00      0.00                  0.00     100.00     179.92    203.67       1.77
P040185        1998 CH-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                            95.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     37.56      28.46       0.00
P051736        1998 E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                              250.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     172.79    170.29     155.41
P036414        1998 CH-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                       72.00     20.00                  0.00       0.00     80.71      42.26       0.00
P003566        1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                             0.00     85.00                  0.00       0.00     46.48      20.39       0.00
P036949        1998 Not Hwy3-Hubei                                    250.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     80.33      -0.50       0.00
P003539        1998 SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DEV.                100.00      0.00                  0.00       2.31     57.79      31.77       0.00
P045788        1998 Tui-Provincial Hwy                                230.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     100.40     50.44       0.00
P046563        1998 TARIM BASIN 11                                     90.00     60.00                  0.00       2.67     76.08      47.14       0.00
P003619        1998 2nd Inland Waterways                              123.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      89.84     62.44       0.00
P003614        1998 Guangzhrou City Transport                         200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     130.81    122.03       0.00
P046952        1998 FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                              100.00    100.00                  0.00       0.00     106.31     -19.24     51.13
P003606        1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                                83.00      0.00                 22.00       0.00     51.29      11.49       0.00
P049700        1998 IAIL-2                                            300.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     82.95      12.14       0.00
P037859        1998 EGY CONSERVATION PRO                                0.00      0.00                 22.00       0.00       6.30     20.93       0.00
P003591        1998 STATE FARMS COMMERCI                              150.00      0.00                  0.00      80.91       8.45     70.29       8.24
P04448S        1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                               400.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    266.97     127.42      31.52
- 53 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                    GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P038968        1997 HEILONGJIANG ADP                                120.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     29.95      24.67      0.00
P003654        1997 NatHwy2/Hunan-Guangdong                         400.00      0.00                0.00       0.00    144.11     127.45      0.00
P003650        1997 TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                            400.00      0.00                0.00     102.50    171.82     233.25      -4.54
P003643        1997 Xinjiang Hwy ll                                 300.00      0.00                0.00      60.00     64.06     119.73      14.06
P003637        1997 CH-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                      0.00      70.00                0.00       0.00     25.98      20.83      18.34
P003635        1997 CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                          10.00     20.00                0.00       0.00      2.88       4.01       0.00
P003590        1997 QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION                30.00    150.00                0.00       0.00     76.31      76.40       0.00
P034081        1997 XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                            430.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      92.10    122.09       0.00
P036952        1997 CN-BASIC ED. IV                                   0.00     85.00                 0.00      0.00      2.56       5.45       0.00
P036405        1997 WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                            400.00      0.00                 0.00     75.00      54.52    100.69      37.19
P035693        1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                               0.00      0.00               32.80       0.00      8.87      32.81       0.00
P040513        1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                              210.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     91.94      87.61     -16.39
P003594        1996 GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                              60.00     90.00                0.00       0.00     95.43      59.08       0.00
P003599        1996 CH-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                   125.00     25.00                 0.00      0.00     105.70     90.63      39.11
P003638        1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                             80.00     20.00                0.00       9.40      19.89     26.18       0.00
P003602        1996 CH-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      125.00     25.00                0.00      28.32      59.00     88.69      31.22
P034618        1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                             10.00     20.00                0.00       0.00      10.68     12.99       0.00
P003652        1996 2nd Shaanxi Prov Hwy                            210.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     47.58      47.58       0.00
P003649        1996 SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                             0.00     100.00                 0.00      0.00       8.85     14.38       0.00
P003648        1996 CH-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE II                         250.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     96.98      94.81       0.00
P003646        1996 CN-CHONGQING IND POL CT                         170.00      0.00                 0.00    164.82      3.00     165.74       2.74
P003589        1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                     0.00    100.00                 0.00      0.00      17.16     28.16       0.00
P003571        1995 RAILWAYS VII                                    400.00      0.00                 0.00     29.00     165.96    180.46     130.21
P003585        1995 SHENYANG IND. REFORM                            175.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      41.52     41.52       0.00
P003603        1995 CH-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF             275.00     75.00                 0.00     20.00     102.11    120.69      23.59
P003598        1995 CH-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                         110.00      0.00                0.00       0.00      19.70     19.70       2.29
P003600        1995 CN-TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                       200.00      0.00                0.00       3.02      32.12     35.14       0.00
P036947        1995 SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                            270.00      0.00                0.00      95.00      15.35    110.35      13.33
P003639        1995 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                            47.50     200.00                0.00       0.00      17.82     42.83      11.04
P003642        1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                             400.00      0.00                0.00       0.00      63.60     65.02       0.00
P036041        1995 FISCAL & TAX REF. &                             25.00      25.00                0.00       0.00      3.06       5.55       5.02
P003647        1995 ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                              0.00      10.00                0.00       0.00      4.57       5.41       0.00
P003634        1995 CN-MATERNAL CHILD HEALT(HLTH6)                   0.00      90.00                 0.00      0.00       4.46      7.76       0.00
P003402        1995 NATURE RESERVE MGMT                              0.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      0.94       2.41       0.00
P003593        1994 SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                               0.00     205.00                0.00       0.00      6.70       1.42      -5.15
P003626        1994 Fujian Prov Highway                             140.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      35.02     35.02      35.00
P003644        1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                          0.00     110.00                 0.00      0.00       6.15      4.43       0.00
P003540        1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                    0.00     150.00                0.00       0.00       2.79     -2.27       0.00
P003404        1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                             0.00       0.00                10.00      0.00       0.02      0.78       0.00
P003595        1994 RED SOILS II DEVELOP                             0.00     150.00                 0.00      0.00       7.41      3.27      -3.43
P003641        1994 YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                            350.00      0.00                0.00      11.50       3.37     14.57      -1.08
P003609        1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                  255.00      0.00                10.00      0.00      56.81     56.81       0.00
P003632        1993 CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                          0.00      50.00                 0.00      0.00       6.67      7.62       7.30
P003627       1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                             325.00    165.00                0.00       0.00      45.20     46.03      34.37
P003623        1993 FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                             0.00      60.00                0.00       0.00       8.93      3.42       3.42
P003S92        1993 REF. INSTL& PREINV                               0.00      50.00                 0.00      0.00       4.24      4.87       0.62
P003616        1993 TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                             300.00      0.00                 0.00     17.00      21.87     38.87       0.00
P003624        1992 CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES (HLTH5)                   0.00     129.60                 0.00      0.00       3.82      0.26       0.22
Total:    13611.90    2862.20             156.80      804.57    7279.45   4314.36     631.43
- 54 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999/00            Bank of Shanghai              0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00
1996               Beijing Hormel                2.86    0.50    0.00    2.20    2.86    0.50    0.00    2.20
1998/00            CIG Holdings PLC              0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Caltex Ocean                 21.00    0.00    0.00   36.82   21.00    0.00    0.00   36.82
1998               Chengdu Huarong               7.40    3.20    0.00    8.60    2.31    3.20    0.00    4.91
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94         China Bicycles                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden Mgt              0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden Ven              0.00    0.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.77    0.00    0.00
1994               Dalian Glass                  0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1999               Dujiangyan                   25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00   11.51    0.00    0.00   13.49
1995               Dupont Suzhou                15.58    4.15    0.00   20.80   15.58    4.15    0.00   20.80
1994               Dynamic Fund                  0.00    9.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.24    0.00    0.00
1999               Hansom                        0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996               Jingyang                     35.00    0.00    0.00   76.92   35.00    0.00    0.00   76.92
1998               Leshan Scana                  6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996               Nanjing Kumho                 7.79    3.81    0.00   22.14    7.79    3.81    0.00   22.14
2001               New China Life                0.00   30.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32    0.00    0.00
1995               Newbridge Inv.                0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00
1997               Orient Finance                0.00    0.00   11.43   14.29    0.00    0.00   11.43   14.29
1997/00            PTP Holdings                  0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997               PTP Hubei                    12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38
1996               Pacific Ports                 0.00    2.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.54    0.00    0.00
2001               Peak Pacific                  0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    13.53   0.00
1998               Rabobank SHFC                 1.35    0.00    0.00    1.35    1.35    0.00    0.00    1.35
2000               SSIF                          0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00
1998               Shanghai Krupp               30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80   10.63    0.00    0.00   24.37
1999               Shanxi                       19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
2001               Sino-Forest                  25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Suzhou PVC                   14.67    2.48    0.00   14.80   14.67    2.48    0.00   14.80
1998               WIT                           5.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri              2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Yantai Cement                 8.30    1.95    0.00    4.43    8.30    1.95    0.00    4.43
1998               Zhen Jing                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       243.23   98.21   36.43  331.53   180.54  80.62    24.96  261.90
- 55 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               AACI                            0.00      0.00      2.00     0.00
2000               CIG Zhapu                       6.00      5.00      0.00     0.00
2000               CIMIC Tile                      15.00     5.00      0.00    15.00
2001               Daning Coal                     0.00      0.00      0.00    15.00
2002               Darong                          10.00     0.00      1.50     8.00
2001               Maanshan Carbon                  9.00     0.00      2.00     5.00
2000               Meijing                          9.00     0.00      0.00     7.30
2001               Minsheng                         0.00    23.50      0.00     0.00
2001               NCCB                             0.00     0.00     26.58     0.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                  0.00      0.00      0.00     1.50
2000               Wan Jie Hospital                15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       64.00    33.50     32.08     51.80
-56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &   middle-
China    Pacific  Income       Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                    1,262.5    1,853     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                    840     1.060     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   1,061.2    1,964     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
PoPulation (%)                                        1.0       1.1       1.0
Labor force (%)                                       1.2       1.4       1.3     GNI    I                        Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of Population below national povertv line)   5
Urban Population (% of total population)               36        35        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        69        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1.000 live births)               30        35       32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              9        13        11          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)   75        75        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    16        14        15
Gross primarv enrollment /Xof school-age population)  123       119       114            Chia
Male                                                123       121       116        ---  Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              123       121       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                         216.2    363.0     997.5    1,076.9
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               35.2     34.7      37.2      37.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP            7.6     17.5      22.0      25.9                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  34.9     37.9      40.1      39.9
Gross national savinas/GDP                  34.9     38.3      38.7      39.2
Current account balance/GDP                  -0.4     3.8       1.6       1.9     Domestic                    Ie     n
Interest Pavments/GDP                        0.2      0.7       0.6       0.7          stl_                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    15.2      15.5      13.9     sains 
Total debt service/exports                   8.0      9.9       9.O       7.4
Present value of debUGDP                       ..      ..       13.5
Present value of debUexports                  ..       ..      58.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                10.1     10.3      7.1       7.9       7.4               China
GDP per capita                      8.5      9.2      6.1       7.2       6.7         -Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      11.0     16.5     13.9      32.0      11.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP (%i
(% of GDP)                                                                        20
Aariculture                                 30.1     27.0      17.6      15.9
Industry                                    48.5     41.6      49.4      50.9
Manufacturing                              40.5     32.9      33.6      34.5    r0            _
Services                                    21.4     31.3      32.9      33.2                                  o
Private consumption                         50.5     49.9      47.4      47.0            95   9s    97   98    99    00
General government consumption              14.6     12.1      12.5      13.1              -G    DI        11 GDP
Imports of aoods and services                7.9     14.3      19.1      23.2
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(avera,qe annual orowth)
Agriculture                                  5.9      4.1       2.8       2.4    40
Industrv                                    11.1     13.7       8.1       9.6    30        _     _
Manufaclurina                              11.1     13.4       8.3       9.7    20
Services                                    13.5      9.0       7.5       7.8    1*o  7
Private consumption                          9.4      8.8       2.6       6.0
General government consumDtion               9.8      9.4       8.4      12.0    -10                97    98   99    00
Gross domestic investment                   10.8     11.6       3.2       7.9                  Exports  O   lmports
Imports of goods and services                9.1     16.1      22.3      24.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 57 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% chanqe)                                                                    30
Consumer prices                            6.0     3.1      -1.4      0.4    25
Implicit GDP deflator                      5.6     5.5      -2.2      0.9
Government finance
(% of GDP. includes current grants)                                                             97   98    9     o
Current revenue                           25.7    19.7      15.0     15.3    -10
Current budget balance                      ,.      3.0      1.3      0.6           -    GDP deflator  O  CP
Overall surplus/deficit                    -1.5    -0.8     -4.0     -3.6
TRADE
(USS millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                     18,270   62,091  194,931  249,210    30000
Food                                    2,985   6,609    10,458   12,282
Fuel                                    4,280   5,237     4,659    7,851      DO
Manufactures                            9,005  46,205   174,990  223.752
Total imports (cif)                     20,017   53,345  165,699  225,097
Food                                    2,927   3,335     3,619    4,758   100,000
Fuel and energy                          203    1,272     8,912   26,037
Capital goods                           5,119  16,845    69,469   91,934        o  3        38
Export price index (1995=100)               25      78        69       67
Import price index (1995=100)               22      80        71       75               * Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  116      97        98       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services           20,167  67,971   218,496  279,561    s-
Imports of goods and services           20,859   55,537  189,799  250,688
Resource balance                          -692   12,433   28,697   28,873
Net income                                -100    1,055  -17,973   -14,666   3
Net current transfers                       ..     274     4,943    6,311    2
Current account balance                   -792   13,762   15,668   20,519    1                  *    I    *i
Financing items (net)                       ,,   -7,673   -7,163    -9,971   0
Changes in net reserves                     ..   -6,089   -8,505   -10,548       94   90   06   97   98   99   00
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      ..   16,963  161,404  171,753
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)           2.1     5.1       8.2      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        ..   55,301  154,223  149,800
IBRD                                       .    2.865   10,400   11,118
IDA                                             3,016    8,907    8,771             G: 17,174  A: 11,118
Total debt service                                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~8: 8.771
Total debt service                       1,652    7,057   20,655   21,728                                D: 2.556
IBRD                                      ..     416     1,142    1,291
IDA                                        ,,     19       117      131                           A-
Composition of net resource flows                                                                          E: 28,510
Official grants                            7     143       201      147
Official creditors                        ..    1,727    1,706    1,928
Private creditors                         ..      ..    -1,854    1,985
Foreign direct investment                 57    3,487   41,015   42,096
Portfolio equity                           0       0     1,808    7,814          F:81,671
World Bank program
Commitments                               ..     953     2,097    1,536     A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             ..    1,098    1,756    1,907     B - IDA  D - Other mululateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                      ..     216       558      644     C-IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                   ..    882     1,198    1,263
Interest payments                         ..     219       701      778
Net transfers                             ..     663       497      485
Development Economics                                                                                         9/6/01
- 58 -



Additional
Annex 11
Social Assessment
CHINA: CN- Tuberculosis Control Project
A.     Summary of Key Social Issues, and Social Development Outcomes
1.     Tuberculosis is a social, as much as a medical, problem. It is both a cause and consequence of
poverty. By tackling TB in some of China's poorest provinces, this project will improve the health and
well-being of individuals, families and communities, and in so doing will contribute to the economic
development of the country as a whole. Specific efforts are made in the design of the current project to
target the most vulnerable who, according to current knowledge, include those from the poorer provinces,
people from ethnic minority groups and the 'floating population'. Financing arrangements have been made
between the various funding bodies (GOC, the World Bank, DFID and the Government of Japan) and
provincial govermments to enable free diagnosis and treatment for all infectious TB patients. In order to
increase case-finding and expand the project to the most remote areas, some provinces are creating
additional diagnostic centers, and many will work with the general health services and other providers of
health care to ensure smooth and effective referral of patients from those facilities into the project. Further
institutional and civil society partnerships to facilitate treatment supervision, case management and
tuberculosis education will also be pursued in many provinces. In addition the project will develop new
approaches to Information, Education and Communication (IEC) to inforn patients, the community and
health providers about tuberculosis symptoms, treatment and care. In order to assess progress in achieving
social development and TB control objectives, social assessment and operational research have been
integrated into project design.
A.1    Stakeholders: interests and participation
2.     The primary stakeholders of the project are the beneficiaries - individuals, families and
communities affected by tuberculosis. In addition to the broader community, the Project is designed to
identify and meet the special needs of the poorer provinces, people from floating populations, those from
minority ethnic groups and others. Difficulties experienced by others, e.g., women, the elderly and
HIV/AIDS patients, in accessing treatment and care, will also be assessed. As noted above, civil society
organizations such as village health committees, women's groups and labor cadres will be contacted and
their help in delivering IEC, and supporting patients to complete treatment will be sought. Other key
stakeholders include frontline providers of TB treatment and care. Health care providers in the project
areas working at the county and provincial hospitals, township and village clinics that currently charge for
treatment, are important stakeholders to bring into the project. They are currently the most important
points of first resort for patients, and they have explicit interests in keeping patients under their care in
order to benefit financially from their treatment. Great care will be taken to work with these providers to
enlist their support in referring patients into the project and/or to act as treatment supervisors. TB
Programmers, policy makers and donors (the World Bank, DFID, the Japanese government, WHO, and
possibly other bilateral donors at a later date) are others with important interests in the project, and who
have much to gain from its success. Chinese and international researchers and academics are a further
stakeholder group. The international policy community is also a stakeholder in the project - evidence and
knowledge gained from this project can usefully inform international tuberculosis policy.
- 59 -



B.     Concepts and Examples
B.1    Learning from past experience
3.     The new project builds on the findings of the last ten years of the Bank-financed IEDC (Health V)
Project and Government of China TB control projects. Within Health V, the Joint Research and
Management Committee conducted a number of small studies to assess the impact of the project and to
determine barriers to care. Further work on the social development aspects of the project includes the Joint
Review of Tuberculosis Control Programs undertaken in August/September 2000, a second mission
undertaken in October of the same year, a social development consultancy carried out by Professor
Xueshan Feng (Fudan University) in April/May 2001, and a DFID-funded social development consultancy
in June 2001. In addition, both the 1990 and 2000 National Epidemiological Surveys on Tuberculosis in
China included sociological components, and relevant findings of which have been incorporated into the
project design. Key findings of this work were that, while the previous projects achieved cure-rates
surpassing 90 percent in most areas, the percentage of patients treated by the project was low - below 50
percent overall. In addition, the prevalence of TB among the poor and those from ethnic minority groups
remain higher than in the general population. It was found that roughly half of the suspected TB cases do
not present to the TB dispensaries for diagnosis and treatment but remain at the general health services
where they may obtain less than optimal care, sometimes leading to the development of multidrug-resistant
disease. Many patients also delay or avoid care-seeking due to the anticipated costs of treatment. Thus
key priorities of the current project are to increase case-finding, diagnosis and successful treatment,
particularly among those who are most vulnerable to infection, and most likely to encounter barriers to
appropriate diagnosis and treatment.
B.2    Accounting for social issues in project design
4.     Based on these findings, the technical and financial design of the project accounts for the following
issues:
*      Ensuring universal access through free diagnosis and treatment for all infectious TB
patients presenting to TB facilities in the project areas;
*      Making provision for providing treatment to people coming from 'floating populations'
who have TB and special attention to those from ethnic minorities and other vulnerable
groups such as women, older people and HIV/AIDS patients;
*      Increasing the priority and attention given to IEC activities and their quality;
*      Dissemination of information to the community about TB symptoms and the availability of
free and effective care;
*      Identification and incorporation into the program of providers to whom the community go
to first for health care; and
*      Heightening the index of suspicion for TB of these providers.
Specific activities planned by the provinces to address these issues are outlined below.
B.3.   Summary from PIPs here outlining the following issues
B.3. 1. Provincial plans to overcome barriers to access
5.     The barriers to access are of two categories: financial and nonfinancial barriers. To mitigate
- 60 -



impacts of financial barrier, plans have been made by every province on how to facilitate poor counties, as
well as ethnic minority autonomous areas, to plan and implement a successful TB control program.
Financial support from central and provincial governments has never been higher. Within the project, free
diagnosis will be provided to all TB suspects and free treatment will be ensured for infectious TB patients.
Some provinces are committed to providing transportation subsidies to poor patients.
6.     The project will make sure that fully functioning TB institutions or dispensaries are set up at
provincial, prefecture and county level in the project provinces, and outreach TB services in remote or
mountainous areas. TB case referral will be strengthened in the project. According to the Methods on TB
referral Management issued by MOH, all the TB suspects and patients encountered for the first time by
general hospitals and other health providers must be referred to local TB institutions after their initial
diagnosis. Logbooks and records from all health providers in the catchment area will be checked monthly
by local TB institutions. All TB suspects will be reported and home visits will be made to those who fail to
show up for proper follow-up. Incentives will be given to the staff for referral.
7.     A multi-pronged approach will be employed to improve knowledge, attitude and practices toward
TB services among different audience groups including general population, health providers and policy
makers. A consultancy for developing a comprehensive IEC strategy is planned in the project by the end of
2001 if possible. He or she will work with domestic expertise in health IEC to look at following issues:
*      Existing media use and preferences and the potential for change;
*      Identification of target groups;
*      Capacity of MOH to deliver IEC;
*      Extent of support and cross-ministry involvement;
Organizational and institutional arrangements for IEC on TB prevention; and
*      Resources for IEC.
8.     The following principles on IEC for TB prevention have been developed:
*      It will be innovative and informed by the best international and domestic practice;
*      IEC strategy will be culturally appropriate
*      A broad-based collaboration including media, NGO, private sector, affected communities
and other agencies such as Ministry of Education, National Bureau of Radio and TB
Broadcasting will be maximized;
*      IEC will be a continual process and will not be restricted to focusing on World TB Day;
*      IEC campaigns will be timed to respond to improvements in the overall capacity of the TB
services; and
*      The IEC strategy will be continually revised based on the results of impact monitoring and
operational research.
B.3.2. Participatory Approach: how are key stakeholders participating in the project?
9.     MOH has prepared the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) base on a proposal from each
participating province, and each province, in turn, is expected to compile its own proposal based on inputs
from every project county. During preparation, the project received a high degree of participation from
other Govermmental departments, including planning and finance bureaus, at every level. More
importantly, consultations were initiated with former TB patients and their social, economic, and cultural
barriers investigated and findings used in the project preparation.
- 61 -



10.    Some local NGOs and civil society organizations were identified based upon the experience under
the IEDC project and during the preparation of this project. These include village committees, the
Women's Federation and their network, and labor unions. This list will be revised based on the findings
from the baseline social assessment in 2002. Stakeholders, including primary beneficiaries, community
organization, NGOs and police makers will be consulted on the findings from social assessments through
stakeholder consultation workshops. Their advice and recommendations will be reflected in the project
planning and implementation. Such multi-sectoral participation and consultation with vulnerable
population groups will be a continuous feature during annual programming and project implementation.
11.    A key element of the social assessment process will be the use of participatory research which will
provide primary beneficiaries with the opportunity to influence the project. In addition, the MOH will
experiment with participatory monitoring.
C.     Monitoring Progress on Meeting Social Development Goals: The Social Assessment
'Problem Solving' Cycle
12.    The aim of the social assessments is to enable the project to be responsive to the specific and
changing needs of those most vulnerable to infection and those most likely to experience barriers to care
and adherence: the poor, those from the 'floating' population, women, and the elderly. Rather than a
one-time social assessment conducted at the outset, the project incorporates existing knowledge with a
social assessment process to be conducted throughout the project period. While some capacity exists in
China to conduct these assessments, specific funding has been allocated for capacity building at central,
provincial, prefecture and county levels. The participation of project staff in conducting the social
assessments will ensure efficient incorporation of findings into TB control practice.
13.    A full time post of social,assessment coordinator (an experienced social scientist) will be set up at
the Tuberculosis Control Program Office, which is responsible day-to-day planning and implementation of
China's national TB control program including this project. He or she will be fully integrated into the
project management and supervisory arrangement. The same arrangement will be made at provincial level.
The provincial social assessment coordinator should at least receive two months of training in relevant
social science theory and methodologies and gender equity. The provincial social assessment coordinators
should work together as a team under the overall coordination of the national social assessment
coordinator, including regular meetings and sharing of information. They will be responsible for the
following tasks:
*      Ensuring the equity of the TB program so that its impact on the poor and vulnerable
groups is maximized;
*      Designing a program of operational researches and supervising, monitoring and evaluating
the operational researches;
*      Organizing the baseline social assessment survey for each province as well as the large
scale impact assessments prior to the mid term review and project completion;
*      Participating in project supervision missions;
*      Ensuring that the quarterly monitoring reports are produced and analyzed and that results
are incorporated into project programming;
*      Coordinating the work of social assessment experts contracted to undertake operational
research, monitoring and impact assessment; and
*      Organizing training in social assessment techniques for staff at lower levels of the project.
- 62 -



14.    Social assessment methods will be both participatory and non-participatory and will include
routine data collection and analysis by relevant socio-demographic categories, participatory rural appraisal,
focus group discussion, key informant interviews, case studies, participant observation and household
sampling surveys. Analysis will be undertaken by a project team that will include specific social
development expertise. In addition, this work will be supported by longer-term, rigorously designed
operational research studies to be conducted through partnerships between the National TB Program, local
and intemational research institutions. One such collaboration has already been established between the
NTP, Fudan University School of Public Health, and the DFID TB Knowledge Program based at the
Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (UK).
15.    Routine data will be disaggregated by gender and key socio-demographic indicators, and progress
against the following indicators will be reported quarterly together with other epidemiological data in the
selected sentinels:
*      Number of men and women with knowledge of TB and the TB project;
*      Degree of stigma associated with TB;
*      Change in case-detection rates among poor and vulnerable groups such as ethnic
minorities, women, migrants, older people, etc.;
*      Treatment adherence rate of male and female TB patients among different groups;
*      Cure rates of smear positive male and female TB patients among different population
groups; and
*      Change in referral rates from other providers.
16.    Analysis of this data in quarterly reports will lead to the development of action plans to refine
program practice according to identified needs/problems. Where no solution presents itself readily,
operational research studies will be commissioned.
17.    More detailed social assessment studies will be carried out at the beginning of the project, mid-term
review and before project completion by those working within the project where capacity exists or can be
established, or by relevant outside 'experts.' These investigations will explore the following aspects
impinging on access and adherence, which were identified in the social development work to date:
*      The extent to which a person believes he or she is susceptible to TB;
*      The subjective interpretation of severity of symptoms;
*      The benefits to be accrued through taking action (including knowledge and perceived
quality of services);
*      The actual and perceived social, financial and opportunity costs of treatment;
*      Has awareness and understanding about TB improved in the community?; and
*      Who is in particular need of support for completing treatment, what type of support might
be most appropriate, and how and by whom that support can best be delivered?
18.    This project is unique in its commitment to using social assessment technologies and processes in
TB control design and management. It is believed that the process created and tested in the context of this
project will be a model for other countries to follow in the deivelopment of sustainable and effective TB
control, which is responsive to the needs of the populations served.
- 63 -



Appendix 11-1
Ethnic Minorities Development Strategy
Introduction
1.     Tuberculosis is one of the main causes of death in China, often affecting people during their most
productive years. In China, it is estimated that there are about two million infectious TB cases, and that
TB claims 150,000 lives annually. TB is both a cause and consequence of poverty.
2.     The Government of China (GOC) has developed a National Mid- and Long-Term TB Prevention
and Control Plan (2001-2010). A Five-Year Action Plan for TB Prevention and Control has also been
developed. The plan aims to cure two million TB cases in the next five years by implementing a Directly
Observed Therapy, Short-Course (DOTS) Strategy as recommended by the World Health Organization.
3.     The World Bank and the United Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID) are
collaborating in preparation of a China Tuberculosis Control Project. The project will assist GOC in
implementing its National TB Prevention and Control Plan in sixteen selected provinces where TB
prevalence and household poverty is high. The project aims to reduce is aiming at reducing TB morbidity
and mortality, especially among those living in the poverty.
4.     The project area incorporates an overall population of 688 million, including 82.22 million
members of ethnic minorities. Of these, about 70 million live in officially designated autonomous minority
areas, including the counties, prefectures, or regions.
5.     Research demonstrates that TB prevalence is higher among some ethnic minorities, and that they
may face greater barriers in getting access to TB services (Figure 1). Because members of ethnic
minorities also are more likely to live in poverty in many areas, project design must pay due attention to the
minorities if project objectives are to be achieved.
- 64 -



Figure 1. Smear Positive TB Prevalence Rates Among Selected Ethnic Minorities, 1990
(TB Prevalence Rate Unit: I in 10 thousand)
600 -    -  -  -  -    l
400   -
300   -
200 - 
6.     This Ethnic Minorities Development Strategy describes project arrangements for ensuring that
members of ethnic minorities within the project area are provided sufficient opportunities to benefit from
the project. Specifically, it describes arrangements for consulting with members of the ethnic minorities,
with the objectives of identifying and alleviating any barriers to TB case finding and treatment, and to
ensure that service methods and procedures are provided in a culturally appropriate manner. The Strategy
also ensures consistency with the requirements of World Bank OD 4.20 with regards to projects affecting
ethnic minorities.
Basic Information on Ethnic Minorities in China
7.     There are 55 identified ethnic minorities in China. Throughout China, one hundred and fifty-five
ethnic autonomous administration areas had been established by the end of 1998. Forty-four ethnic
minorities live in autonomous areas designated for them. The project will cover sixteen provinces,
including three officially designated autonomous regions, sixteen autonomous prefectures and 99
autonomous counties.
Legal Framework and Policies
8.     China has established a comprehensive legal framework for the protection and development of the
ethnic minorities. This legal framework consists of
o      The Constitution of the People's Republic of China;
o      Law on Autonomy in Ethnic Minority Regions;
o      Administration Regulation in Ethnic Minority Townships; and
o      Law on Villager Committee Organization.
9.     The Constitution, as passed in 1982k provides that all nationalities in the people's Republic of
China are equal. The State guarantees the equality, unity and helping relations of all ethnic minorities.
The State forbids discrimination and oppression against any ethnic minorities. The States forbids any
- 65 -



activities against the unity of all minorities and of racial separation.
10.    The Constitution also states that the State supports all ethnic minorities in their economic and
cultural development according to their needs and characteristics. Areas of minority concentration will
practice autonomous administration with the establishment of their autonomous administration bodies and
the right of autonomous administration. All autonomous minority areas are an inseparable part of People's
Republic of China.
11.    All ethnic minorities have the freedom to use and develop their own oral and written language,
maintain or reform their traditions and customs. The Constitution also provides clear stipulations for the
establishment of the regional autonomous governments.
12.    The Law on Autonomy in Ethnic Minority Regions, passed by the second session of the sixth
National People's Congress in May 1984, provides for the establishment of minority autonomous areas.
The Law stipulates that, apart from the same responsibilities accorded to the same level of local
governments, the authorities of the Autonomous Areas have the following responsibilities for autonomous
administration: (i) autonomous legislative powers; (ii) autonomy in management of local political affairs,
(iii) autonomy in management of local economic development; (iv) autonomy in management of local
financial affairs; (v) autonomy in the management of local affairs in science, education, and culture; (vi)
autonomy in organizing local public security forces; (vii) autonomy in using and developing minority
languages; and (viii) autonomy in training and employing ethnic minority cadres.
13.    The Law stipulates that the chairman of the people's government of an autonomous region, or
prefecture or county, must by law be a member of the minority or one of the minorities for whom the
autonomous area is established. Other leadership and administrative posts ought to be filled by members of
that minority or other ethnic minorities living in the area to the greatest extent possible. The Law also gives
autonomous area govemments a wide range of economic rights and responsibilities. The law also provides
a guarantee of religious freedom and of freedom not to believe. The law also stipulates that "the
autonomous administration should support other minority groups living in the autonomous region to
establish their local autonomous administration or minority townships. The autonomous administration
should support all ethnic minorities in the autonomous regions in their economic, education, cultural and
health development."
14.    The Administration Regulation in Minority Townships, issued in 1993, stipulates that autonomous
township administration should be set up in areas where minority population live in concentration and that
the township autonomous administration, in consideration of local needs and the minority characteristics,
govem according relevant laws and regulations.
15.    Law on Village Committee Organization also issued stipulations regarding the organization of
villager committees in minority villages.
16.    Governments at various levels also have instituted preferential policies favoring members of ethnic
minorities. These include preferences in obtaining employment or admission to universities, and relaxed
restrictions on child birth, among others.
Ethnic Minorities and Access to Public Health Services
17.    However, despite relatively favorable policies and legislative framework, some ethnic minority
groups remain among the poorest in China leading to disparities in health status between them and Han
- 66 -



majority. The reasons for this poverty and poor health indicators are various and include:
o      Members of ethnic minorities are more likely to live in poverty;
o      They typically live in mountainous or otherwise remote areas, which limits their physical
access to health services;
o      Lower population densities in these areas also make health services more expensive to
operate, and service quality in such areas is likely to be poor because skilled health
workers are scarce;
o      Health services often are not affordable because the health system increasingly relies on
fee-for-service because of inadequate public health funding; and
o      Insufficient attention has been given to the distinct cultural and social norms of minority
peoples to ensure a responsive health services.
18.    The high incidence of TB among many ethnic minority peoples means that they will be among the
major beneficiaries of this project. By reducing the incidence of TB, many ethnic minority peoples will be
able to move out of poverty or, at least, be protected from falling further into poverty. However, the
Government of China recognizes that it is insufficient to deal with TB in isolation and, for this reason, is
developing a wide range of programs to improve the economic situation of ethnic minority peoples. For
instance, the Western Region Development Plan should be a significant generator of economic growth in
many ethnic minority areas, while the State Council Leading Group for Poverty Reduction targets a large
proportion of its resources at ethnic minority regions. More recently, Ministry of Health has worked out a
plan how to strengthen health development in Western Region.
Ethnic Minorities and Project-Related Impacts
19.    The project poses virtually no potential for adverse impacts. Based on international best practice
and experience with TB prevention in thirteen provinces in China under the Health V project, few
bio-medical adverse effects might be generated from use of TB drugs and vaccines. The project involves
no have no land acquisition, restriction on use of physical assets, or resettlement.
20.    A well-planned TB control program will both reduce infectious TB prevalence rate and MDR-TB.
In the Health V Project, for example, the smear positive TB prevalence rate has been reduced by 36.7
percent in project areas, compared to a 3.2 percent reduction in non-project areas. The proposed Since TB
control project will deliver sirmilar substantial benefits to minorities spread across sixteen provinces.
21.    A project spanning sixteen provinces presents complexities in terms of informing, and targeting
project services for ethnic minorities. Because the incidence of TB is proportionally higher in officially
designated poverty counties and autonomous areas, the project prioritizes operations in those areas. While
all individuals regardless of ethnic status are, in principle, equally eligible for assistance, the project targets
delivery to those who previously were less likely to have access to services and hence were most susceptible
to risk. This, of course, means that members of ethnic minorities living within designated poverty counties
and autonomous areas are more likely to be project beneficiaries. Efforts will be undertaken, however, to
ensure that project information and services are delivered to all ethnic minority communities, regardless of
whether they reside within priority program areas, in a culturally appropriate manner.
Strategy to Assist Ethnic Minorities
22.    This Strategy has been developed to promote culturally appropriate TB control, especially in the
- 67 -



minority autonomous areas. The framework includes:
o      Initial social assessment, in which ethnic minorities will be consulted regarding their
culture, religion, beliefs on illness, treatment-seeking behaviors, and gender relations, so
that a plan can be developed to remove or substantially reduce potential barriers to access;
o      Extensive IEC and disclosure of project information in local languages and delivered in a
culturally accessible manner;
o      Participation from ethnic minority representatives in project design and implementation;
o      Strengthening the capacity of local institutions to plan, implement and manage TB control
activities;
o      Favorable policies to targeting the poorest, and most vulnerable ethnic minorities to ensure
maximized project benefits; and
o      Use of traditional medical systems to provide support to patients within the context of
DOTS.
Social Assessment and Ethnic Minorities
23.    Much valuable information from primary beneficiaries on TB service and its barriers have been
gathered from the two National TB Prevalence Surveys in 1990 and 2000, plus home visits in Guangxi,
Guizhou, and Inner Mongolia during earlier phases of project preparation. But such information needs to
be updated and expanded. Three large-scale social assessment activities are planned: an initial social
assessment at the beginning of the project; another at a mid-term review assessment; and a final assessment
at project completion. The initial assessment is to feed into project design. The mid-term assessment will
contribute to program design changes as warranted. The final assessment will primarily be evaluative.
24.    The initial social assessment will be implemented in two selected provinces in the early 2002, and
in the remaining fourteen provinces later in the same year. Qualified social scientists will utilize
appropriate quantitative and qualitative techniques to:
o      Map local demography of ethnic minorities: distribution and composition (age, gender,
education, and migration pattems);
o      Understand local beliefs and practices on illness and diseases, and norms and behaviors for
seeking TB services among men and women;
o      Identify local existing health facilities and providers, including traditional healers, and their
roles in providing services;
o      Investigate financial and non-financial barriers to access for TB services, especially those
barriers specific to women;
o      Understand local decision making and consultation systems by identifying any local social
organizations, groups, and individuals, and assessing their role and capacity how they can
contribute to in decision making for project planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation; and
o      Map the channels and means for public information dissemination, and identify the local
opinion leaders.
25.    Initial and mid-term social assessment findings will be used in developing:
o      Annual implementation plans, including strategies and methods to remove all the barriers
or mitigate their adverse effects;
- 68 -



o      Methods to increase or improve participation of ethnic minorities and civil society
organizations in project planning and implementation;
o      Methods to improve IEC strategies; and
o      A training and institutional strengthening plan for local medical facilities and social
organizations that may be engaged in project implementation.
26.    Terms of reference (including personnel qualifications) for all three social assessments will be
subject to prior Bank review and approval. The capacity to manage social assessments will be established
within the Program Office at national level and Project Offices at provincial level. Extensive training in
social assessment techniques and analysis will be provided to key project personnel, links will be developed
with key research institutes so that their expertise can be integrated into the project, and adequate funding
will be provided by each province to conduct appropriate social assessment activities. Two more points
will be added at the ethnic minority areas: (a) Anthropologists should be involved in social assessment at
least at provincial or regional level; and (b) for any local investigation team, at least one team member
should be from local Ethnic Minority. He or she will be trained in basic social science methodology.
Project Information Disclosure and IEC Campaigns
27.   In collaboration with the Bank and DFID, the project will develop an IEC strategy in early 2002.
The strategy will is aimed to increase the TB case detection rate and cure rate by addressing
misconceptions and information gaps, and by promoting appropriate behavior changes.
28.    With regard to ethnic minorities, the IEC campaign will pay close attention to: (i) segmentation of
audience groups; (ii) dissemination of culturally appropriate messages in locally understandable languages;
(iii) a good mix of mass media, local media as well as inter-personal communication strategies; (iv)
encouraging local social organization(s), opinion leaders and ex-TB patients to be involved in information
dissemination and promotion of behavior change among TB suspects and patients; and (v) changing
attitudes and behaviors among TB service providers.
29.   In autonomous areas, members of ethnic minorities are likely to be involved in project management
and implementation, including representation in local project leading groups, project management offices,
project expert panels, and TB institutions or dispensaries.
30.    Consultation with local community members began during has been started since project
preparation, and will be continued during the project implementation through home visitation and periodic
stakeholder consultation workshops. Minority communities will be briefed about project progress through
various media, such as newsletters, flyers, or radio/TV broadcasting. Information to be disseminated will
include contact information or hotlines for receiving suggestions, complaints and recommendations.
31.    Two independent project impact assessments have been planned before mid-term review and
project completion. They will be supplemented by quarterly routine data collection and analysis. The
following information on the social outcomes of the project will be collected and reviewed, together with
other data in selected sentinels:
o      Number of men and women with knowledge of TB and the TB project and services;
o      Felt and observed stigma associated with TB;
o      Change in case detection rate and uptake of TB service from male and female members of
ethnic minorities;
- 69 -



o      Cure rate of smear positive minority males and females, especially those living in poverty
poor ones;
o      Change in referral rate from other providers to TB institutions/dispensaries; and
o      Improvement in livelihood and reduction in vulnerability of minority male and female
program beneficiaries.
32.    Initial findings from the project impact assessments will be disseminated to local minority
community leaders or representatives, and discussed in stakeholder consultation workshops before being
finalized. The results of these assessments and workshops will inform project design which will be
continually refined to better overcome barriers to access.
Institutional and Capacity Building
33.    Project leading groups, project management offices, project expert panels and TB
institutions/dispensaries will be set up at provincial, prefecture and county levels, including in all
autonomous areas. Preference has been and will be given to autonomous areas for financial support,
equipment supply, technical assistance/supervision and training. Support and assistance will also be
extended to local social organizations to prepare them for active participation in the project.
34.    Technical assistance and training on social science methodology and IEC have been budgeted in the
project and will be implemented in the project. These initiatives will increase the responsiveness of the
project to beneficiaries' demands, especially those of vulnerable groups. Initial intemational technical
assistance and the first two national workshops on social science methodology and IEC for TB prevention
respectively will be held before the end of 2001. Based upon the experience from Health V Project,
training on other aspects to support a full functioning TB control program is also planned and revised.
35.    The project will also promote experience exchange among Health V project provinces and
non-Health V project provinces through domestic study tours and workshops, etc.
Targeting Assistance to Ethnic Minorities
36.    During project province selection, priority has been given to provinces and regions where poverty
and TB are prevalent, and where ethnic minorities constitute a sizable proportion of the population.
37.    Governments in Xinjiang, Chongqing, Inner Mongolia, Hunan, Liaoning, Gansu and Guangxi have
committed all the counterpart funds necessary for the project, including for all autonomous prefectures and
counties. Other provinces intend to provide partial subsidization for designated poverty counties. Each
province shall submit its plan to improve the sustainability of the TB control program in the province to the
Ministry of Health, not later than December 31, 2002. The project will explore the possibility to make the
ad hoc counterpart funds into govemment's normal budget. The plan will be reviewed by World Bank not
later than June 30, 2003. At mid term review, project sustainability will be evaluated.
38.    The project will provide free diagnosis to all TB suspects, and free treatment to all infectious TB
patients. Based on results of the social assessment activities, steps will be taken to ensure that project
services are provided in a manner accessible and affordable to, and culturally appropriate for, the members
of ethnic minorities.
39.    From 2001 to 2005, Central Government has committed 40 million Yuan (US$4.8 million)
- 70 -



annually for the National TB Program, most of the central fund will go to the twelve western provinces
where majority of ethnic minorities live. The funds are expected to be supplemented by the grants from
international donors such as Government of Japan.
- 71 -



Additional Annex 12: Summary of Blending Mechanism
CHINA: CN-Tuberculosis Control Project
Introduction
1.     This Annex describes the operational arrangements for the implementation of what has been called
the blending mechanism, to blend an IBRD Loan with a DFID grant to finance the Tuberculosis Control
Project in China. The goal of the blending instrument is to try and achieve a net effect of providing to the
People's Republic of China ("China") a concessionary loan of about 2 percent interest per annum, under
agreed assumptions. China will bear the interest rate risk in the event that the net effect of 2 percent per
annum does not materialize. The Ministry of Finance is guaranteeing an interest rate of 2 percent per
annum when passing on the loan to the provinces.
The mechanism
2.     Commitments and agreements. China will enter into a Loan Agreement with the Bank for a Loan
of US$104 million ("the Loan"), and DFID will provide a grant to China in the amount of US$37 million (
rounded for illustrative purposes) ("the DFID Grant"), based on the agreed grant/loan ratio of 36/100. The
DFID grant will be used to prepay part of the principal amount of the Loan over the implementation period
of the project, which is expected to be 7 years. The Bank will administer the DFID Grant on behalf of
DFID.
3.     Purpose of arrangement. The DFID funds will be used to prepay, at regular intervals, 36 percent
of the principal amount of the Loan that is disbursed and outstanding in order to reduce the principal
amount owing from China to IBRD from US$104 million to US$67 million by the end the implementation
period. The intended effect of this arrangement over the life of the Loan (twenty years) is to provide to
China a US$104 million Loan, with an effective interest rate of about 2 percent per annum under agreed
assumptions.
4.     DFID transfer of funds. DFID will transfer the grant monies, which are to be administered by the
Bank, on fixed dates basically at the beginning of every six months into a trust fund ("Trust Fund"). Well
before each date of the DFID grant transfer, China and the Bank's task team will estimate the amount of
Loan disbursements projected to take place over the coming six months and notify DFID about the
estimated disbursement amount. At the beginning of the six-month period, DFID will transfer to the trust
fund 36 percent of the estimated Loan disbursement amount. At the end of the six-month period, the funds
will be used to prepay 36 percent of the actual Loan disbursement made during the six-month period.
5.     Front-end fee. On the date of Loan Agreement effectiveness ("Effectiveness Date"), the first
disbursement under the Loan will be made to finance the front-end fee. The front-end fee, equal to one
percent of the US$104 million, will accrue on the Effectiveness Date, but on that date the Bank will collect
only US$665,600, which is one percent applied to the Loan net of the DFID grant. The balance
US$374,400 of the front-end fee, or part of it, will be collected only if DFID is unable to fulfill its
commitments under the Tripartite Arrangement and the Bank agrees to continue financing of the project
under standard IBRD terms.
6.     Commitment charges. The standard Bank commitment charge will accrue on the undisbursed
amount of the Loan. However, at the standard times for payment of commitment charges, the Bank will
collect commitment charge calculated on 64 percent of the undisbursed amount of the Loan. The Bank will
- 72 -



begin collecting commitment charge calculated on the entire undisbursed amount of the Loan only if DFID
fails to fulfill its commitments under the Tripartite Arrangement (or any other donor or China does not
assume DFID's commitments) and the Bank agrees to continue financing of the project under standard
IBRD terms.
7.     First DFID transfer. DFID's first transfer into the trust fund will be made within thirty days
following the date of the Tripartite Arrangement. The transfer will be in an amount equal to 36 percent of
the portion of the front-end fee that is due, plus the amount of disbursements and Special Commitments
expected to take place during the period leading up to the next prepayment date. On or shortly after the
Effectiveness Date, the DFID monies will be used to make the first prepayment, to prepay 36 percent of the
front-end fee that was financed by the Loan. On the next prepayment date, the remainder of the DFID
monies will be used to prepay 36 percent of the actual Loan disbursements made during the period leading
up to that date.
8.     Loan disbursement. To limit the Bank's net exposure, disbursement of the loan will be made only
if DFID has transferred into the trust fund an amount equal to 36 percent of the amount requested to be
disbursed.
9.     Suspension of Loan disbursement. The Loan may be suspended in the unlikely event that DFID
fails to carry out its comnitments under the Tripartite Arrangement or decides to terminate the
Arrangement. In that event, the Borrower will have the option to find altemative sources of funds in place
of DFID's commitment for purposes of continuing the blending on the same terms and conditions agreed
under the Tripartite Arrangement. Otherwise, the undisbursed amount of the Loan will be cancelled.
10.    Waiver or amendment. Any waiver or amendment of provisions in the Loan Agreement that
affects the Bank's ability to limit its exposure through the disbursement mechanism described in paragraph
8 may be made only with Board approval to be requested on a no-objection basis. Otherwise, the Bank's
net exposure may exceed US$67 million.
- 73 -






70,              800              90             1 ooo           1 i o            1 20'            1 30
,J,t, ~~~~~~~~F E IE iP T iON 2x'9
KL'7 KHW;T4N                 .                    ,',fri
,  '                       k. .~~~~~~ t'  }            vS~ N'               s
1 F 1  L I   A                                                                                 _ 
- r . ~~{                             }- t; _ _                  _             f tttre             Fi: C.- j
t   .        A,              _'           < ,_   o ./             S  L00   i0 2   '.    {<  > F  gi 'e  . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
.,.r, w_vV   |!      @          0_>                      15 111  i  5,  ) _  tt     '   F F r  C.ll-~~~~'.Z IANJF
T -  n  L                ..          4     s   x, r t     t    S  bJ  r 4   ^; H                      S - S g. 
heplof The, Word fM,nk                     QINGHAI            !     w   0  i1         7
Grop  -ny 1,dg-fn onhe                                     ~_ 
kg.f sihWsjf -ny t-ri"Y' y                                                                    Vrf -  Q t 
c-Px-nc of -uh/ I                                                                 rit , Ar -SU
_300 ~XIZANG        g     ~\{ |-. \  % _= i}A-4#5I tv lr2 
44; < ~~LHASA                         SI5CHUAN                                              F  -t 
CHINA                           rI AfGA I4Ht                     ;j   ll(}r 
TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT                                                                    TUArs: Hbd  AxI~l(UjN--St-I
ProjectlProvinces              'TirflN~>           /S                ;}             AIWAN
National Capital                L.'
Province Bioundaries                      ;kx                                K_t< ^?S/4 j4ll oNG
rn          ---~~~~~ {~nternational Boundaries                             7          AA EI _l-A-  ACAO_
D   ~        ~~~~~~~  0                                  I 200 400 600 Kilometers  (.,   .S  ,  
ic                7   Ir   I  I   I1                    l  .  t_HAIIVAN                                        kHiL isivNEL  
8                 O  100  200  300  400 Miles            ,, ,    ,_   .            r-,126                                    r



