                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICROOOOl440



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-71 070)



                                      ONA

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$104 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                       PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FORA

                    TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT



                                September 30, 2010




Human Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
           CURRENCYEQUTVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective August 13,2010)

       Currency Unit = Yuan Renminbi (RMB)
              RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.1471
             US$ 1.00 = RMB 6.7960

                   FISCAL YEAR




     Vice President:     James W. Adams
  Country Director :     Klaus Rohland
    Sector Manager:      Juan Pablo Uribe
Project Team Leader:     John Langenbrunner
  ICR Team Leader:       Bukhuti Shengelia
                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CDC     National Center for Disease Control         MDR-TB   Multi-Drug Resistant-Tuberculosis
DALYs   Disability-adjusted life years              MoH      Ministry of Health
DFID    United Kingdom's Department for             MTR      Mid-term Review
        International Development
DHLYs   Discounted healthy life years               NCMS     New Rural Cooperative Medical
                                                             Scheme
DOTS    Directly observed treatment, short-course   NCTB     National Center for TB Control and
                                                             Prevention
EPI     Expanded Program of Immunization            NTP      National TB Con~ol Program
EQA     External Quality Assurance                  OOP      Out-of-pocket
FLO     Foreign Loan Office                         PAD      Project Appraisal Document
FM      Financial Management                        PCN      Project Concept Note
GpP     Gross Domestic Product                      PDOs     Project Development Objectives
HNP     Health, Nutrition and Population            PIP      Project Implementation Plan
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and   QER      Quality Enhancement Review
        Development
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results       RMB      Yuan Renminbi
        Report
IDA     International Development Association       SARS     Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
IEC     Information, Education and Communication    TB       Tuberculosis
IEDC    Infectious and Endemic Disease Control      TTLs     Task Team Leaders
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report    WB       World Bank
JICA    Japanese International Cooperation Agency   WHO      World Health Organization
KNCV    KNCV Tuberculosis Foundation                WPRO     WHO's Regional Office for the
                                                             Western Pacific
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
                                         Tuberculosis Control Project



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 27
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 37
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 38
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 41
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 45
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 49
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............                                                                                50
                                                              i ................. , .................................................


  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 60
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 61
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 63
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 64
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR andlor Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 65
  Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 71
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 72
  MAP CHN31620
                         IP071147
                         109/30/2010
ILendin Instrument:      iSIL                   iBorrower:
!Original Total                                                          •
                         lUSDI04.0M             IDisbursed Amount:       IUSD 10L4M
iCommitment:
IRevised Amount:         lUSD 101.4M
                                                                         I
IEnvironmental Category~ C
IImplementing Agencies:
. Ministry ofHealth
iCofinanciers and Other External Partners:
, UK Department For International Development




                                                                07117/2006        08/2112006
                                                                03115/2010        03/15/2010




 Outcomes:                                      !Satisfactory
. Risk to Development 9_~~~e:                   !SubstantiaI
 Bank Performance:                              ISatisfactory
 BorrowerPerformaIice:                          ISatisfactory




Quality of Supervision: :Satisfactory

Overall Bank
                        {Satisfactory                                   :Satisfactory




: Potential Problem ProjectlNo               jQuaHty at Entry         1N0ne
                             ---
iat any time (YeslNo):                           .
                                                     KQEA):
                                                     ,
                              I

, ProbiemPr6ject at any       i                      Quality of
                              lNo                                       lNone
Itime (Yes/No):               ~                       upervision (QSA):
:. DO rating before
                                  Satisfactory
!Closing/Inactive status:




           Code (as % of total Bank financing)
•Health                                                             93                     93
. Sub-national government administration                             7                      7

:Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
: Child health                                                       25
    Rural services and infrastructure                                25                    25
,
: Tuberculosis                                                       50                    75




: ICR Team Leader:
      Vr11m~1~ Author:




F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1. To reduce TB morbidity and mortality through an effective and sustainable National
TB Control Program (NTP), espeCially among the poor.

Revised Project Development Obje~tives (as approved by original approVing authority)
                                                                          ,   ~,   ,   '




    (a) PDO Indicator(s)
 ·. 1~00?~~~i~fll">F!I"l¥i
  Indicator 1 :     70% case detection rate of new smear-positive cases                        ...
  lValue
  quantitativeot    23.26%                     ~O%                                ~7.33%
. Rualitative)
  ~ate achieved     03/3112002                 ~3/3112002                         03115/2010
  Comments
                    The project achieved an average case detection rate above 77% from 2005 till the
  I,incl. %
                    !completion of the project.
  achievement)
  Indicator 1 :     ~t least. 85% cure rate of smear-positive TB cases
  Value
  quantitative or   80%                        85%                                ~2.9%
  Qualitative)
  Date achieved     03/3112002                 03/3112002                         ~3115/2010
  Comments
                    High cure rates had already been attained in ,the IEDC project provinces so the
 KineI. %
                    target was set to maintain the cure rate and ensure treatment .effectiveness.
  achievement)
                    !FUll funding of critical program components, including free treatment for all
Indicator 3 :
                    smear-positive TB cases, from regular government budget
Value
quantitative or 13%                         100%                              60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/3112002                    03/3112002                        03115/2010
Comments
(incl. %        iThe funding gap will be filled by the Global Fund grants.
achievement)
                IEstablishmentof adequate and effective institutions to control TB at all
Indicator 4 :
                government levels
                                           IEstablishment of
Value                                      ladequate and
                                              ~ffective
quantitative or Nil                                                               lI'arget achieved.
                                              institutions to
Qualitative)
                                              ~ontroJ TB at all
                                              government levels
Date achieved 03/3112002                 03/3112002                          03/15/2010
Comments
              100% of the activities planned for institutional strengthening have been
(incl. %
              completed.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                                             ActUal Val1ie
                                                                                             Achievedaf
                                                                                            Completion or
                                                                                             Ta    t'¥ears
                              opulation covered by DOTS Strategy

                                                           100%                           100%

                                                           03/3112002                     03/15/2010
                               is indicator reflects the percentage of provinces! counties implementing the
                              OTS Strategy.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                   .'   .'.
      I                                                                                        Actual
                   DateISR                 ·DO·
 No. "'Archived                                                               IP           Disbursements
          ......                                .   :"".   ,,:.-   .    '.'
                                                                                           (USDmDlions)
  1           05/02/2002                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                  0.00
  2           12/04/2002                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                  8.67
  3           06/02/2003                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                  8.67
  4           12/08/2003                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                10.67
  5           05/18/2004                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                13.72
  6           12/24/2004                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                33.35
  7           12/29/2004                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                33.35
  8           06/13/2005                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                38.63
 9            01113/2006                 Satisfactory .                 Satisfactory                44.45
 10           01117/2007                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                55.08
 11           12/17/2007                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                62.37
 12           12/27/2008                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                70.69
 13           11/30/2009                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                93.44


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
I. Disbursement Profile
                          -   Orlginill ---- Formally Revised - - Aaual
    125

    100

     75

     50

     25

      o
          N   ,..

          • • •
          • • •
          N N N
                    ,..
                              • • • • • • • • • • •" ... .........
                              LI'I

                              • • N N N N N N • N "' • o N N
                              N N
                                  o •
                                       .... ....
                                     LI'I
                                       •
                                            ~   ~    ..
                                                    .0.
                                                 ... ...
                                                         N N N
                                                               •
                                                                 ...
                                                                 •
                                                                 N
                                                                     .....
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Health challenges and the Tuberculosis epidemic

At the time of appraisal TB epidemic was the greatest public health challenge for China.
China was one of the 22 highest TB-burden countries in the world. As of 2000, there
were 400 million persons estimated to be jnfected with TB, including 5 million persons
with active TB. The number of new cases in China ranked it as second, with 1.4 million
new cases each year l . Of these infected individuals, 150,000 persons were dying every
year from TB2.

TB in China affected poor rural residents disproportionately more· than to the rest of the
population. About 80% of TB cases lived and still live in rural areas. The rate of TB in
poor rural areas was nearly three times higher .than in economically developed urban
areas. This was attributable to poor living conditions, insufficient financial resources to
pay for health care, inadequate access to health.services, and lack of knowledge about TB.

China was also facing particular challenges with regards to Multi-Drug ResistantTB
(MDR-TB) and HIVITB co-infection. More than 600,000 persons were estimated to be
infected with HIV and about one-third of these patients were expected to die from TB. In
2001-2002, certain parts of China· were facing some of the highest rates of MDR-TB in
the world due to poorly managed TB control programs. This had.serious implications for
the health system from the epidemiological as well as the financial point of view. MDR-
TB requires treatment that cost 100 times higher than the standard treatment, while the
cure rates are much lower than that for non-drug-resistant TB.

Health system performance and the state ofTB control

China had achieved substantial improvement in its population health status after the
foundation of the new China in 1949. Nevertheless, at the time of project appraisal, China
was still facing numerous health challenges. These challenges included inequity in the
health status and access to care; excessive and inequitable financial burden from the cost
of health care for the population especi~ly the poor; high burden of TB and preventable
non-communicable diseases; unequal and often inadequate quality of care; unbalanced·
health care workforce; etc. Reforms were needed in the area of health financing, human
resources, stewardship and service delivery in order to make services for affordable,
accessible and of better quality.

In addition to these challenges, China was also facing significant health disparity between
rural and urban areas. For example, while the national maternal mortality ratio was 50.2


) WHO 2002 report
2 China National lO-year TB control plan 2000-2010


                                                     1
per 100,000 live births in 2001, it was 33.1 in urban areas and 61.9 in rural areas.
Similarly, while the national infant mortality rate was 30 per 1,000 births in 2001, it was
13.6 in urban areas and 33.8 in rural areas.

In the 1980s, health fmancing in China shifted from a collective or centralized system to
a more decentralized and individual approach. The share of government spending in total
health expenditures decreased substantially from 25% in 1990 to 15.21% in 2002, while
the share of out-of-pocket (OOP) spending increased from 38% to .60.6% during the same
period. In 1998, the coverage of health insurance was extremely low; 56% of urban
residents and only 13% of rural residents had some insurance coverage. The impact of
this has been especially problematic for TB control. One survey showed that 36.9% of
TB patients were not able to seek care due to financial difficulties and many TB patients
became poor due to catastrophic payments for TB treatment.

Despite the fact that TB was recognized as a major public health threat in China, the
funding for TBcontrol remained insufficient. In 2001) the total funding for TB control
was RMB 130 million (RMB 0.1 per capita) and the funding from central government
was RMB 40 million (RMB 0.03 per capita). The less developed provinces in western
regions had more difficulties in meeting the financing requirement for TB control. Public
health facilities lacked equipment and resources to perform such a critical activity as
sputum microscopy. Supervisions of village doctors~ along with· training or surveillance
activities, were poorly conducted, if at all.

History ofTB control in China
The Government has taken significant steps since the 1990s to control TB. These efforts
included the implementation of two large TB control projects utilizing the WHO-
advocated directly observed treatment, short-course (DOTS) strategy. The first major
project was the Bank-financed Infectious and Endemic Disease Control (IEDC) Project
(Cr. 2317-CHA), which was approved in December 1991 and covered 13 of China's
current 31 provinces. The second project, the Strengthening and Promoting TB Control
Project (1993), was jointly funded by the Ministry of Health and the provinces, and was
implemented in 15 provinces not covered by the IEDC Project In addition, three
province-level cities (Beijing, Tianjin, and Shanghai) had their own well-organized TB
control programs ,with wen trained personnel and sufficient equipment. The TB Control
program under the lEDC detected 1.1 million cases and achieved a high cure rate - over
90%. Contrary to this, the government initiated program was not quite as effective. This
has been attributed to patients being charged for all diagnostic services and only a small
percentage of patients received free treatment. There were also no special incentives
provided to health workers for case identification and case management. None of these
projects reached high DOTS coverage and adequate case detection rates. The positive
results that were achieved in these. projects proved temporary and unsustainable.

By 2000, at the end of these projects, TB control in China still faced formidable
challenges. Only 68% of the popUlation was covered by DOTS. The case detection rate of
new smear-positive cases was only 33% and the progress appeared to be uneven across
provinces. The provinces covered by IEDC Project were facing the .imminent risk of



                                            2
      being unsustainable after the end of the project. Interviews with past World Bank: Task
      Team Leaders (TILs) indicated that in some IECD project provinces, TB facilities were
      not able to secure funding for free TB diagnosis and treatment, and were ready to charge
      for TB services right after the project would end. These risks proved legitimate and soon
      after the project ended, the performance reversed.


      1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators (as approved) .

      The PDO of the China TB Control Project (herein referred to as the Project) was ''to
      reduce TB morbidity and mortality through an effective and sustainable national TB
      control program especially among the poor". The key indicators to measure attainment of
      the PDO were:
          (a) 70% case detection rate of new smear-positive cases;
          (b) at least 85% cure rate of smear-positive TB cases;
          (c) full funding of critical program components, including free treatment for all
              smear-positive TB cases, from regular government budget; and
          (d) establishment of adequate and effective institutions to control TB at all
              governrilentallevels.

      In order to achieve the PDO, intermediate objectives were developed. The table below
      summarizes the intermediate objectives by components and their respective indicators:

                       Table 1 Intermed'        'jectlves b P' Component
                                         late Ob'         >y rOject
Intermediate Objectives    Output Indicators
(Outputs)                                                               ..
    1. NTP policies        1.1 National plan for TB Control (2001-2010) adopted
       developed,          1.2 Central TB control unit established with clear responsibilities and
       implemented, and roles to implement and monitor DOTS in all sectors and provinces
       monitored           1.3 Legislations and policy statements on key issues related to TB control
                           adopted or disseminated
                           1.4 All project provinces implementing NTP policy
                           1.5 Financing and implementation plan to deliver DOTS expansion
                           nationally developed by mid-2002 and operational by 2003
                           1.6 Effective multi-sectoral consultation processes adopted and used at all
                           levels by 2003'
                           1.7 Recommendations from research and reviews on improving access
                           and quality of care used to inform policy making
                           1.8 Full funding of required central level activities by government
                           1.9 Funding necessary to fully support critical program components,
                           provided by central and provincial budget in a poverty-adjusted manner




                                                  3
2. High case             2.1 Expansion of a TB control program using the DOTS strategy to at
   detection and cure    least 95% of the country's population by 2008
   in project            2.2 Find at least 2 million smear-positive cases by 2008
   provinces             2.3 Achieve new smear-positive notification rate of 30 per 100,000
   achieved through      population by 2008, with high case rate for all gender, poor, and
   DOTS-based "          vulnerable groups
   services that meet    2.4 Maintain cure rate of at least 85% for new male and female smear-
   the needs of         "positive cases
   patients "            2.5 Results frpmsocial assessments incorporated into design of TB
                         services
                         2.6 Pilot scheme for free treatment of smear negative patients carried out
                         in two provinces
                         2.7 Increased awareness of TB and a reduction in the stigma associated
                         with TB as a result of lEe work
3. Instituti()ns and     3.1Recommended number of health workers trained according to NTP
   fmancingto            guidelines at all governmental levels
   deliverNTP            32 All TB control institutions at and below the provincial level with
   strengthened.         recommen~dstaffing and equipments to implement NTP
                         3.3 An increasing percentage of funding for required program activities
                         are provided by central and provincial governments over time
                         3AFundingnecessary to fully support critical program components
                         provided by central and provincial budget in a poverty-adjusted manner


  1.3 Revised PDOs (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
  reasons/justification

  The PDO and t~sults frame~ork'have not been revised after the board approval.

  1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

   The Project covered sixteen provinces which were selected based on their low per capita
   income, high prevalence of TB, and commitment to implement the program with
   significant local financial participation. The Project covered the entire populations of the
   sixteen selected provinces~ which, total~d 688 million people in 1999. The Project had
   strong pro-poor focus. It was expected that the poor would l>enefit more from the Project
  than the rest of the population, beci!.use the poor were disproportionately affected by TH.
  Given the high proportion of ethriic minorities and other socially vulnerable groups in the
  project provinces, special arrangements were made based on the outcomes of a social
  assessment to maximize the project benefits for such vulnerable groups (ethriic minorities,
  'Y0men, elderly, migrant populatipu, etc).




                                               4
         . Table~; Social and EconoIllical Status in Elach Projeot Province in 2000
        Provinces      Per       Total ,', %ofrunll         % ofethnic %of·
                       capita population population         minority      population
                       GDP       (million)                  population    living in
                       (Yuan)                                             poverty-
                                                                          stricken
                                                                          countie$
      . Xinjiang           6470        183.1         69.8            59.4           4.6
        Gansu              3668       249.8           80.9            8.8          16.7
                        .
        Shaanxi            4101       350.8           77.9            0.5           2.8
        Chongqing          4826       303.9           78.4            6.5          16.1
       Yunrtan             4452       417.3           85.1           33.4         22.5
        Guizhou            2475       348.8           85.2         . 37;8          19.8
        Inner
       Mongolia            5350       230.5           65.3           20.8          11.9
        Guangxi            4148       436.9           82.3           38.4           8.5
       Henan               4894       908.6          .83.1            1.3         23.5
       HUhei               6514       592.7           73.4            4.4          17.8
       Hunan               5227       630.8           80.4           10.1          15.2
       Hebei               6932       665.4           81.4            4.4          15.7
       Liaoning           10086.      415.5           54.1           16.1           52
       Fujian             10797       337.7           802             1.7           7.2
       Jiangxi             4661       399.9          77.3             0.3          19.2
       Jilin             6341        265.9           56;7            9.2           3.3


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Project Component 1 - Strengthened NationalTB Policies. and Programming (USS4.49
million - 2% of the total project amount)                               .

 This component comprised three SUb-components: institutional development, policy and
program. development, and program coordination and management at the national. level.

       Subcomponent 1.1 -Institutional Development

This sub-component was intended to strengthen itlstituti()nsat the national level through:
(a) the establishment ofa central project coordination group; (b) the strengthening of a
central management unit with sufficient resources to carry out a national TB control
program; and (c)' the strengthening of a central TB reference laboratory with required
staff and resources.            . .                                           .

To better ensure the success of the Project, a project coordinating group consisting of
central .governmental leaders from different sectors including health, finance, and
planning was established to oversee the progress of the Project and resolve major
problems when implementing. the Project. Resources would be provided through the
Project to strengthen the central-TB management unit and the central TB reference



                                             5
 laboratory. The Project had to ensure that the necessary staff, training, equipment, and
 funds were provided to these central level institutions.

         Subcomponent 1.2 - Policy and Program Development

 This sub-component was intended to assist the Government at the central level to develop
 policy guidelines and specific components of the National TB Control Program (NTP).
 The assistance would be based upon the experiences with the implementation of the
 DOTS strategy. This included: (a) development of detailed implementation plan for the
 NTP; (b) review of existing and development of new NTP policies, and disseminate
 them; (c) development of a national health education plan; and (d) coordination and
 implementation of program-oriented operations research activities.

 Although the overall plan for the NTP (2001-2010) had been developed, a detailed
 implementation plan for expanding the DOTS program throughout the country still
 needed to be prepared. This implementation plan was scheduled to be developed during
 the first year of the Project. As part of the N,{P implementation process, existing policies
 for TB control needed to be reviewed and revised in order to improve on the current
 program. In addition, the program was expected to face new challenges, and therefore
 new policies had to be developed and implemented in order to address these .difficulties.
 For example, control of TB in the floating population (internal economic migrants), the
 emerging HN and TB co-epidemics, us~ of combination drugs, and the rising drug-
 resistant TB epidemic all required new policy and program development. Component 2
 encompassed the development and implementation of the national health education plan
 and program-oriented research activities. The research activities had to focus mainly on
 operational research and social assessment of which the central unit would be responsible
 for coordinating. The results from operational research activities were expected to inform
 formulation of new policies as well as bolster institutional and academic capacity.

         Subcomponent 1.3 - Coordination and Management

... This sub-component was intended to ensure the coordination and management of the
    implementation of the project activities in the project provinces as well as their effective
    coordination and integration into the NTP. The activities consisted of: (a) development
    and implementation of evidence-based program management methods; (b) improvement
    of provincial capacity to implement projects in line with NTP; and (c) procurement and
    distribution of quality drugs and equipment.

 To improve the management of the NTP, the Project planned to develop and implement
 an evidence-based program management method. The "evidence-based" aspect would be
 linked to the implementation of a national TB recording and reporting system that would
 provide TB data from every province, prefecture/city, and county. Additional information
 on the. program would be collected during field visits, through periodic surveys or
 assessments, and from drug:-resistance surveillance studies and other research projects.
 AU information would be analyzed and used to guide the implementation of the national
 program. The central unit would use all available data during regular supervision visits to



                                               6
the provinces to monitor program implementation. To improve provincial capacity, the
central TB unit would provide technical assistance to provincial TB control units in all
aspects of the national program. The mechanism to procure quality TB drugs and
equipment would be developed and implemented along with a management system for
TB drug distribution.

Project Component 2 - Improved Access to and Quality of TB Services at Province
Level (US$196.76 minion - 82%, oCtile total project amount)

This component made up the bulk of activities under this project and focused on the
improvement of access and quality of TB control services in the project provinces. The
component comprised of the following three SUb-components: program management,
service delivery and patient-focused innovations.

        Subcomponent 2.1 - Program Management

This sub-component consisted of: (a) implementation of evidence-based program
management, and (b) improved management and usage of drugs and equipment.

In all project provinces, prefectures/cities and counties, the national TB recording and
reporting system was planned to be implemented. Periodic assessments and surveys were
planned to provide additional information on the program and supervision of various
aspects of the program were to be carried out from the provincial to prefecture/city level,
prefecture/city to the county level, county to the township level, and from the township to
the village leveL The evidence-based program management method was to be used by all
provincial TB institutions and each province was to carry out drug-resistance surveillance
studies to monitor the level of drug-resistant TB. The provinces were responsible for the
distribution of TB drugs as wen as equipment maintenance oversight.

        Subcomponent 22 - Service Delivery

This SUb-component consisted of: (a) improved case detection; and (b) improved cure
rate.

A uniform approach to diagnose TB was to be used in an project provinces using chest x-
ray and sputum microscopy as the principle means to evaluate patients when they
presented with symptoms. To improve case detection, linkages between the TB
dispensary and various medical institutions were to be strengthened. All identified smear-
positive TB patients and smear-negative TB patients with cavitary or miliary findings on
chest x-ray were to be treated free of charge using standardized TB treatment regimens.
In most ca')es, the village doctors would be responsible for observing a patient's intake of
medications. A reporting fee and a case management fee would be provided to those who
report and manage TB patients, respectively, in order to improve the reporting and the
management of TB patients. New strategies to improve case detection and cure rate
would be evaluated and then implemented.




                                            7
       Subcomponent 2.3 - Patient-focused Innovations

This sub-component consisted of: (a) implementation of program-oriented research
activities, (b) development and implementation of an action plan for Information,
Education and Communication (lEe); (c) development and implementation of programs
to deliver DOTS to hard-to-reach populations; (d) pilot programs to prevent and treat
HIV-associated TB; and (e) pilot free treatment of smear-negative TB patients.

To better meet the needs of patients in specific populations, social assessment activities
would be carried out in all project provinces. In addition, depending on the needs in
specific provinces, other types of operational research projects would be carried out. The
national plan for health education would be implemented in all project provinces, but the
plan and the lEC materials were expected to be modified by provinces following social
assessment activities. Several pilot projects to tackle difficult or emerging problems in
TB control were planned in the provinces, including DOTS implementation in hard-to-
reach populations, prevention and treatment of HIV -associated TB, and free treatment of
smear-negative TB patients.

Project Component 3 ~ Strengdum.ed Institutions and Financing to Deliver TB
Program at Province Level (US$ 40.04 million -- 17% of the total project amount)

This component was designed to include province level activities required to implement
the Project consistent with NTP. This component would have the following two sub-
components:

       Subcomponent 3.1 - Institutional Strengthening

The activities included: (a) establishment of leading groups and project offices at
provincial and lower levels; (b) strengthening TB control institutions with sufficient
financial resources, infrastructure and equipment to carry out NTP activities; and (c)
improvement of human resource capacity. The institutions were to continue their
effectiveness during the ongoing health reform with the ultimate goal of eventual
integration of TB services into county health services.

To strengthen the implementation of the Project, provincial and lower-level governments
would establish leading groups consisting of governmental leaders from different sectors.
These groups would oversee the progress of the Project and resolve major problems that
might arise during project implementation. Resources were to be provided through the
Project to strengthen the provincial, prefecture/city, and county TB control institution,
including the TB laboratory. The Project was to ensure that the necessary staff, training,
equipment, and funds were provided to these institutions as wen as the establishment of
effective TB control institutions during a period of health sector reform. To improve
human resource capacity, training and technical assistance were to be provided to staff at
allleve1s. A pilot project was to be carried out to determine the feasibility of integrating
TB control services into the county TB health services, e.g., into the hospital system. In




                                             8
the event that the results of the pilot were positive, this integration would be implemented
in other areas.

        Subcomponent 3.2 - Expanded Financing for Sustainable TB Control

Under this sub-component, the provinces had agreed to: (a) develop plans for long-term
sustainability of the TB control program in their respective provinces; and (b) implement
plans to assist poorer areas to participate in the program, including facilitating
government grants to poorer areas in order to support critical program components like
TB treatment.

To better ensure the sustainability of the NTP after project completion, each province
would develop a sustainability plan to control TB, including a financing plan to support
critical program components such as free TB diagnosis and treatment at the completion
of the Project. Each project province would also develop and implement a plan to provide
special assistance to poorer areas within the province so that they can effectively
implement the program. Special emphasis would be placed on the use of grants from
central and provincial level to assist lower level of government, especially to support
funding of critical program components.

1.6 Revised Components

No components were revised during the Project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) team has identified several
important factors that significantly affected the project preparation, implementation and
outcomes of the Project. These factors were diverse in nature, some related to internal
political developments and others to the changing external environment. In this section,
the key developments that had most profound impact on the Project are summarized.

One important external factor was the Ministerial Conference on TB, which took place in
Amsterdam in March 2000 and placed the issue of TB very high on the agenda of the
Government of China. The state of TB prevention and control in China was recognized as
the major contributor to the global TB epidemic. This was a serious message to the
government from the international community, which the Government took very
seriously in terms of the implication of TB for the overall health of the Chinese
population and its economy, and for the international reputation of China with regard to
the management of public health threats in general. This created a sense of urgency in the
Chinese government and therefore increased their commitment to TB control.

Another important development with serious consequences for the Project was the Severe
Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak, which hit China and the rest of East Asia
in spring 2003, and created a major global public health emergency. The SARS ,outbreak
initially had a negative impact on the project implementation. The Project was in its



                                            9
second year of the implementation and was still gearing up speed when SARS struck.
The entire attention of the Government was channeled towards addressing SARS, which
caused almost a six month stand-still in the implementation of the Project. However, this
initial negative impact was offset by the positive impact that followed. After the SARS
outbreak was extinguished, the Government of China exponentially increased funding for
public health and initiated unprecedented efforts to strengthen its disease control system.
A drastic institutional reorganization took place marked with the creation of the Center of
Disease Control (CDC) with its peripheral (all the way to the county level) branches.
Control of diseases with serious public health consequences such as TB, HIVIAIDS,
SARS, etc'. became a political priority of the Communist Party and its leadership. In
September 2004, a State Council meeting was held specifically on TB control involving
all provinces through a video-link. The State Council meeting gave a big push to TB
control efforts country-wide and a very strong impetus to the Project. The Project had
been designed to' support the implementation of the National TB Control Strategy in the
first place, but the increased political attention to TB that mounted from 2003-2004
welded the Project even stronger with the NTP and made it a platform on which all the
subsequent TB control efforts would be built.

Another development that positively affected the Project was that WHO's Regional
Office for the Western Pacific (WPRO) made TB a regional priority in 2000. In response
to this, the Member States strongly committed to the 2005 global TB control targets:
100% DOTS coverage, 70% detection rate, and 85% cure rate. At the STOP TB
Partnership Group Meeting in New Delhi in 2004, the Ministry of Health of China made
a promise to deliver on the TB control targets, which further solidified the Government's
attention to TB control and exerted positive impact on the implementation of the Project.

At the time when the Project was designed, apart from the World Bank (WB), there were
no major funders that could provide. the sufficient amount of funding to address the
gigantic challenge of TB control in China and make a visible dent in the epidemic.
However from 2003, the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM)
came to the scene and began to fiU the existing financial gaps, thereby complementing
the ongoing WB-supported Project. The Round One Global Fund grant (2003-2008)
focused on the nation-wide expansion of DOTS. It provided support to those poor
counties that were already participating in the WB-supported Project and had difficulties
meeting their counterpart contribution commitments. Some additional provinces not
involved in the WB-supported Project, also participated in the Round One grant
implementation, thereby expanding the DOTS coverage nationwide. Subsequent Global
Fund grants (Round Four, Round Five, Round Seven, Round Eight and Round Nine)
came in addressing narrower and more specific areas of TB control such ad MDR-TB,
TB among HIV infected patients, TB among the migrant population, TB in prisons,
public-public mix (PPM) DOTS implementation etc.

From 2004, the Government of China started massive injection of domestic funds in TB
control. This is particularly true for the Central Government. The ICR discusses the
Government funding of TB and its implications in a greater detail in later chapters.




                                           10
These additional funding opportunities that becameavaHable during the project
implementation had a strong positive impact on the achievement of the TB control targets.
Nevertheless, the Project, continued to play the role of the main platform on which all the
other projects were built, regardless of their source of funding. This ensured high level of
synergy and complementarity between the projects. Figure 1 demonstrates relative
contribution of various sources into the total funding ofNTP from 2002 until 2008.



            Figurel. TS Control Funding Sources in Project Areas, 2002-2008

                  TBControl Funding Sources In Project Areas
                                      2002·2008
                           Others Damien JICA
                             3%          3%




     Source: Internal Summary Report prepared by the Foreign Loan Office in 2010.

A hurdle that arose during project implementation was the 2006 suspension in funding
from the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), whose grant was covering
the costs of TS drugs in 7 provinces. The JICA grant, while not the major financial
source, still contributed 3% of the overall TB control fund pool. Suspension of the grant
created a significant fmancial shortfall. However the central Government quickly
responded to the problem and made additional funds available to fill the fmancial gap and
cover the costs of TS drugs in order not to interrupt free treatment of infectious TS
patients carried out under the Project. Even though this was a rather negative experience,
nevertheless it had some positive impact as well - it reduced the Government's
dependence on external. funding and increased the sustainability of the Project by raising
the level·of counterpart funding.




                                              11
A less severe circumstance arose in March 2009 with the suspension of fmancial
participation in the Project by the United Kingdom's Department for International
Development (DFID). The main reason behind DFID's grant suspension was that project
implementation exceeded the time frame of the funding agre.ement between the WB and
DFID. Also low disbursements in the beginning of the Project and higher disbursements
towards the end have somewhat distorted DFID's portfolio: DFID had budgeted more
grant funds during the early years of the Project with diminishing funding towards the
end, while the real disbursement dynamic in the Project was the opposite. Therefore
towards 2009, as DFID started to downsize its development assistance to China, available
(budgeted) grant funding could not match the Project disbursement levels, which caused
DFID to cancel US$I,033,380 from the initial commitment ofUS$37,692,5420n March
24, 2009. This affected US$4,981,075 of the loan funding. However this had almost no
impact on PDOs and the project outcomes. By that time, the Project had already achieved
all its objectives and targets. In order to cope with the funding gap a small portion of the
loan had to be cancelled: nine project provinces reduced the loan by the amount of
US$2.17 million consequently.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The ICR team rates preparation, design and quality at entry as Highly Satisfactory. The
project preparation started on July 12, 2000 and finished on March 21, 2002. The
appraisal was completed by August 2 I, 2001. There were two important factors that
exerted a significant influence on the project preparation process.

The first factor was the Ministerial Conference on TB Control sponsored by the WHO
and the World Bank and held in Amsterdam in March 2000. As mentioned in the
previous section, this conference set the foundations for the current TB Control Project.
The conference put TB on the spotlight of the international development debate and
generated a serious political commitment of the Government to address the TB epidemic
in China. By that time, China had been already implementing TB control programs for
almost 10 years, but only with modest success, falling far behind the international targets.
Soon after the conference, the World Bank and the DFID, then two major development
partners in China, started 'discussing a possible joint support to TB Control. The
Government of China had limited resources at that time to address the problem of TB,
and it was keen to accept funding and technical assistance to tackle the issue that had
been plaguing its health system and shading its international image.

Second factor was the experience accumulated from the previous two TB control
projects: World Bank funded IEDC Project and the Ministry of Health (MoH) Project.
Both projects focused on the implementation of the WHO-recommended DOTS strategy.

There were six limitations of these 'first generation' TB control projects that the new
Project had to avoid:

           insufficient financial participation of the central and local governments and
           resulting financial unsustainability;



                                            12
           Poor link With the national-level TB control strategy/plan;

           insuffiCient focus on institutional        strengthening       and   organizational
           arrangements for TB control;

           demand-side barriers for the patients who had to pay for the TB treatment and
           a lack of pro-poor focus;

           insufficient focus to the grass-root level TB care;

           lack of attention to health promotion/education and social determinants of TB
           epidemic and health care.

The preparation of the Project started With candid and open discussions of the lessons
learned from the previous effot:ts.· In August 2000~ soon after the identification mission, a
joint technical review was conducted by the MoH, the World Bank, the WHO, and the
DFID. The review took stock of the lessons learned and identified priorities for the next
project.

The project preparation process benefited from an outstanding collaboration and
partnership between the MoH, the World Bank, the WHO, and the DFID. Each party was
playing the role that corresponded to its comparative advantage. The· WHO was
providing mainly technical leadership and guidance; The World Bank was focusing on
implementation arrangements, fiduCiary aspects, and project financing mechanisms. The
World Bank was also aided by the KNCV Tuberculosis Foundation on technical matters.
The DFID was providing vaiuable inputs both fmancially as well as technically,
particularly in relation to pro-poor orientation of the Project. It was remarkable that this
concerted high quality technical· assistance from the partners sustained throughout the life
of the project. The KNCV and WHO continued providing technical guidance which
helped sustain a strong and effective working relationship. With the NTP throughout the
years.

The MoH was in the driver~ s seat and coordinated all the activities impeccably through
the Foreign Loan Office (FLO). The FLO organized a very strong technical team
composed of eminent local TB experts who developed the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) - the key document containing all the details of the project design and costing. The
MoH and local technical expert group have received an excellent quality technical
assistance from the WHO, the World Bank, the KNCV and the DFID. The PIP was
revised several times following a series of technical reviews from international experts,
consultations, and preparation missions. The ICR team was impressed by the quality of
preparatory work conducted by the MoH, and the FLO in particular, and the competence
of the local and foreign technical experts involved.

The preparation of the TB Control Project in China sets an outstanding example of
partnership and cooperation between donors and the MoH. Forging such an effective
partnership was not easy. There were many different opinions among the partners,



                                             13

                                                                      /
sometimes contradictory ideas and divergence in their approaches. It took plenty of
diplomacy, negotiation a.n:d constructive compromises from· each involved party to agree
on the final design of the Project. Options that had to be weighed against each other
included: .focus on infrastru.cture investment or on policies 8J,1d knowhow; investment at
the grassroots levels or at the central level; focusing on specific population groups or
including everyone with infectious TB (smear-positive as well as smear-negative); to
focus only .on the poor or general population; to implement standard DOTS strategy or
modify its core elements. There were lots of debates as well about the level of
counterpart's financial participation, distribution of financing responsibility between the
central government, provinces, and counties.

Lastly and not least, devising a m~chanism of blended financing between the DFID grant
and the IBRD loan was the crucial aspect that made this Project possible. During multiple
interviews the local counterparts confirmed to the ICR team that had it not been for the
blended arrangement, through which the DFID grant paid the bulk of the loan's interest,
this Project would not have materialized, as the cost of borrOwing for prov~ces and
counties would have been unaffordable.

The design of the· TB Control Project incorporated all positive and negative lessons learnt
from the previous two projects. The specific design features that distinguished this
Project from the earlier projects and contributed to its success were as follows:

            It was not designed as a stand-alone project but rather as aD. integral part and
            an implementation mechanism of the NTP, which was developed in 2000-
            2001 for the next ten year period. This allowed easy loading on the Project of
            the other components of the NTP funded from other sources. This enhanced
            synergy. Such design has also contributed to strong national ownership and
         .. commitment at the central and provincial levels.

         . .The project design focused on the implementation of basic DOTS in a general
            population. This was a prudent decision given that resources were limited and
            more complex "a-to-z" type design would be riskier to implement.

           The project design stressed the importance of institutional development and
           improvement 'of policy environment as opposed to investing only in the
           grassroots activities. Such a strong focus on policies and institutional
         . strengthenins, which was absent in the earlier project, made it possible to
           build quite a robust and capable network of TB control institutions and it had
           a positive impact· on infectious disease control in general. The project design
           had the right balance between investing in infrastructure, on one hand, and
           policies and institutional development, on the other hand. In fact, the bulk of
           the loan was spent on the latter. Items such as drugs and other consumables·
           were bought from a grant or the local counterpart funds.

          The project design also succeeded in striking the right balance between the
          national level and provincial level activities. These activities were well linked



                                           14
              and they reinforced each other. The national level beneficiaries received
              support in institutional strengthening, refinement of policies, improvement of
              the surveillance system, developing effective health promotion strategies. The
              provincial level beneficiaries benefited from training, evidence-based new
              operational guidelines, hardware and infrastructure, and institutional
              strengthening activities.

              The project design was pro-poor. The treatment for smear-positive TB
              patients was made free of charge, which has removed the demand barriers and
              improved access for the economically vulnerable groups. Later, during the
              implementation, treatment for smear-negative cases also became free further
              improving access and reducing financial barrier and burden for the poor.

              The project design adopted a pioneering financing mechanism, which was
              particularly innovative at the time when the Project was conceived. DFID
              grant in the amount of US$37.44 million3 was used to prepay 36% of the
              IBRD disbursements at regular intervals in order to reduce the effective
              interest rate on the total Bank loan to about 2% per annum over the 20 year
              period. The DFID grant included an additional cushion to mitigate the interest
              risk borne by the MOF. Tins made the loan affordable for the borrower and
              increased buying-in by provinces.

              The project design included many innovative elements and pilots that emerged
              from the operational research (e.g. free treatment of smear-negative cases,
              drug resistance surveys, control of MDR-TB, Control of TB co-infection
              among HIV/AIDS patients, etc.) which aimed at producing evidence based
              knowledge about how best to tailor TB control to the local context, patient
              profile and the existing model of the health service delivery. Particularly
              important was Social Assessment conducted in four provinces, which made it
              possible to tailor the lEC campaign and health promotion to socio-cultural
              characteristics of communes. This was essential considering the multitude of
              various ethnic groups living in the project provinces.

              Another innovative feature of the Project was its use of performance-based
              incentives. Under the program, village doctors (community health workers)
              received a fee for reporting and referring a TB patient, and for supervising a
              patient to complete treatment (for the entire 6 months). The Project paid other
              incentives as well, such as fees to physicians in general hospitals for referring
              TB patients to TB dispensaries, and fees for dispensary staff for tracking
              patients. The Project also provided transportation subsidies to poor patients
              for travel between their homes and the clinics.



3 The actual amount spent from DFID grant was US$35.65 million because of cancellation of a small portion of the
grant towards the end of the project as described in the earlier section.




                                                        15
           One of the most important aspects of the project design was the substantial
           financial participation of the counterpart with gradual reduction of the loan's
           share and increase of the counterpart share. The loan amount including the
           DFID Grant constituted 43% of the total funding. The counterpart funding
           was 51%, and the JICA grant -6%. Such a financing architecture contributed
           to financial sustainability of the Project. The counterpart financing was shared
           among the province, municipality and county levels. The poor counties were
           backed by provinces.

During the preparation six main risks were identified for the Project: insufficient
commitment at the provincial and lower levels, inadequate donor coordination,
interference from the rapid increase of HIV /AIDS cases, difficulty of covering Chinese
migrant population, inadequate counterpart funding, and difficulty of adopting DOTS in
some places. The ICR team considers all these risks and the mitigation measures
specified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) fully adequate. However two
additional risks could have been added: (a) reluctance of doctors to adopt new protocols
of care, and (b) rent seeking behavior of providers undermining free treatment.

The Project did not go under a Quality Enhancement Review (QER), because at that time
QER was not institutionalized. However the project design was well scrutinized at the
appraisal decision meeting. The decision meeting advised the team to focus on
sustainability and counterpart funding, financial management challenges, collaboration
with donors, and the focus on poverty alleviation. It was also mentioned that the team
should address on a small scale, possibly through a pilot, the issue ofMDR-TB. AU these
instructions were fully incorporated into the Project's final design.

Testament of the Project's good design was the World Bank President's Award for
Excellence, which the Project won in 2004 for its innovative financing approach.

2.2 Implementation

The ICR team rates implementation as Satisfactory. The project was implemented
according to PIP that was approved in 2002. The Project successfully delivered all the
planned outputs under all three components and achieved expected outcomes (see details
in Annex 2 - Outputs by Components). As of April 5, 2010, the Project had disbursed
US$100.9 million - 97% of the total loan amount The amount already pre®paid through
DFID grant is US$36.3 million. From the total loan amount, US$2.17 had to be cancelled
due to the termination ofDFID grant.

The chart below (Figure 2) illustrates historical disbursements of the loan. By the time
the Project reached its development objectives and intermediate result indicator targets
(December 2005), it had spent 43% of the total loan amount. The fastest disbursement
happened in the last year of the project implementation - between December 2008 and
December 2009, the Project spent 29% of the loan. The second fastest disbursement
period was between December 2003 and December 2004, when 22% of the loan amount
was spent. The productivity of spending in terms of achievement of results per amount


                                           16
spent was highest between June 2004 and December 2005. During this period with 24%
of the loan amount the Project made huge leap from the baSeline level performance to the
final targets.

               2. Historical Disbursement Amounts                                         1I""\1Pi~T   Period
                                   Historical Disbursement Amounts (US$ min)

   120 ..,----
                       11% •         32%     •     43%     •      53%     •      60% •           68%
   100     +---
    80     +-------~------~------~----_4~----~------_4~~~~4__



    60~=t~~~~
    +--
    40
    20t;~~~1r~~---j~--j-----t-----r-~='==
     o     +---..,----+---~--~--~~~--r_--r_--~~~~~~r_~~~r__



    ~
         _c?" ~",
                ~   ~
                       cP'"   ? ~!' ~~~ ~cP~ ~t? ~cPfo
                              ~
                                                                       ~
                                                                      ~ ~
                                                                                 J'    ~to cPto ~~,,!
                                                                                      ~ ~       ~ ~


Disbursement across expenditure categories shows a more even picture. In the majority
of the expenditure categories, close to 95% of the allocated funds have been disbursed.
The lowest disbursing expenditure categories were 3.A Consulting Services (Operations)
and 3.B Consulting Services (Other) with 77% and 76% disbursement rates respectively
(see Figure 3).

 Igure 3 D' bursementover the PrOJectPenodb Expend'ture Cat egones
F'        IS                     .      .  >y     I
                                                                              Allocated                 Disbursed
   Category         category Description                                           USD                       USD      %
 Total                                                              101,831,000.004            100,916,330.74       99%
          1         IBRD71070 WORKS                                      2,388,387.42             2,339,399.39      98%
         2-A        IBRD71070 DRUGS                                      2,661,474.99             2,628,010.11      99%
         2-B        IBR071070 GOODS-DIRECT PAYMENT                         957,530.00             1,000,000.00      104%
         2-C        IBRD71070 GOODS-OTHERS                            42,620,874.73             40,826,922.50       96%
         3-A        IBRD71070 CON SERV-OPERATION S                       1,444,191.55             1,107,925.38      77%
         3-B        IBRD71070 CON SERV-OTHERS                             575,030.33                   435,352.82   76%
          4         IBRD71070 TRAINING                                  13,664,824.89           10,978,953.86       80%
          5         IBRD71070 PROGRAM SUPPORT                         36,853,086.09             32,934,166.68       89%
          7         IBRD71070 UNALLOCATED                                         0.00                       0.00
          8         IBRD71070 UNDISBURSED FEF                                     0.00                       0.00
     DA-B           Designated Account                                            0.00           8,000,000.00
         FEF        FRONT END FEE                                         665,600.00                   665,600.00    100




4 This   amount is does not include US$ 2.17 million that was cancelled due to the tennination of DFID grant.




                                                           17
The picture of chronologically uneven implementation performance and disbursement
corroborates the picture drawn from the review of Implementation Status and Results
Reports (ISRs). Based on ISRs, the overall Implementation Progress and Progress
Towards Achievement of Development Objectives have been consistently rated as
Satisfactory throughout the implementation period. Counterpart Funding was rated as
Unsatisfactory until January 2006 due to the difficulties provinces and counties
experienced in meeting their financial commitments. From January 2006 till November
2009 (the last ISR filed) Counterpart Funding retained Moderately Satisfactory status. In
June 2005, Financial Management was downgraded from Satisfactory to Moderately
Satisfactory due to-the problem of slow reimbursement of expenditures to counties.

From 2002 until mid 2004, the project implementation was slow not only in terms of
disbursements but also in terms of achievement of its performance targets. The ISRs and
Aide Memoirs frequently stated dissatisfaction with counterpart funding, slow
disbursement, delays in signing lending agreement with all provinces and counties, lack
of verified baseline data, insufficient progress in scaling up detection of new smear-
positive cases, slow implementation of social assessment and the operational research
studies. In the same period, policy development and institutional capacity building
activities were carried out more successfully than implementation of DOTS and the
related procurement packages. Significant delays, almost a standstill, occurred in the
second half of 2003 w~en SARS hit China. However this temporary setback had a long
term positive impact as described previously.

From 2004 the project implementation dramatically improved. The Government made a
firm commitment to reach global TB control targets as soon as possible. A special session
of the State Council was held on TB control in September 2004, which gave a strong
push to TB control agenda nation-wide and down to provinces and counties. This was
followed by a massive increase in the funding of the NTP, especially from the central
budget - from RMB 40 million in 2001 to RMB 500 million in 2009. This increased
central level funding was matched by provinces as wen as counties: the provincial
funding had increased in the same period from RMB 45 million to RMB 120 million.
Nevertheless some poor counties continued experiencing difficulties in meeting funding
requirements. In such cases counties were aided by provinces.

The main positive aspects in the implementation process were the following:

          The Project was implemented not as a stand-alone operation but as an integral
          element of the NTP.

          There was a good cooperation and division of responsibilities between FLO
          and the technical institutions. The FLO was responsible for overall project
          management, while technical institutions ensured delivery of activities and
          their technical quality.




                                           18
           Cooperation between donors has been exemplary. There was a very effective
           mechanism of supervision of the Project which involved all the donors and the
           MoH.
                                                ,
           The Project benefited from active involvement of highly competent local TB
           experts and an excellent foreign technical assistance, led by WHO, KNCV
           Tuberculosis FO\l1ldation (KNCV) and DFID, which was sustained throughout
           the life of the project. On the basis of this technical assistance a very strong
           and effective working relationship was built with the NTP over many years.

           There was strong commitment of the Government at all levels to reach the
           development results and the global TB control targets.

           Significant efforts were directed towards institutional reorganization of the
           infectious disease control system in general, and TB control network in
           particular.

           Human resources for TB control have been dramatically scaled up and their
           quality improved.

           An effective· IEC campaign and health promotion tools have been designed
           and targeted at the population and health care providers.

           Social dimensions of TB control have been carefully studied and incorporated
           in the policies and TB control guidelines.

          Introduction of free treatment for smear-positive and later smear-negative
          cases was a huge shift from the previous era when patients had to pay for
          diagnosis and treatment which caused serious demand barriers.

          Establishing financial incentive mechanisms for village health workers and
          health care personnel of TB dispensaries has contributed to scaling up
          detection rates. Transportation subsidy to the poor patients, which was
          introduced in some provinces, had a similar impact.

          Promotion of partnership between TB dispensaries and hospital-based
          physicians for more effective referrals of patients from general hospitals to TB
          dispensaries. This was proved to noticeably increase the detection rate.

          An effective information system (TB patient registries) has been. created
          throughout the country linking all the levels from the center down to the TB
          dispensaries.

There were also a number of challenges, which at different points in time have impeded
the project implementation, but they were dealt adequately by the implementing agency:




                                           19
Allocation of adequate amount of counterpart funding, especially at the
county and province level, was one of the greatest implementation challenges,
especially in the beginning of the Project. Later situation improved. The
provinces started to back the ppOf counties that could not meet their financial
obligations. The central Government also increased its financial injection in
the system.

Human resources in some remote townships and counties remained a
constraint, even though the Project made a significant progress in this regard.

In addition to the standard DOTS diagnostic and treatment protocol, local
health care providers continued using supplemental diagnostic tests and
treatments, especially in relation to liver function examination and the use of
'liver protecting drugs'. Despite the lack of evidence of effectiveness of such
procedures and continued criticism from the international experts, this practice
continued. These additional tests and the 'liver protection' drugs are not
included in the free treatment package, which may .impose unnecessary
financial burden on patients, making it especially difficult for the poor. This is
a serious caveat, considering that the literature review under the DFID
supported equity project provides evidence that financial barriers remain the
single most important factor limiting access to TB care.

As the Global Fund grants started to flow in, disbursement of the loan slowed
down. The provinces preferred to use the grant rather than the loan. For
example in January 2006, the original disbursement .lag was 35% and only
US$44.5 million was disbursed cumulatively.

There was an attempt in some provinces to pass the loan repayment
responsibility from the Departments of Finance to the Departments of Health
and sometimes even to health institutions (by deduction from their budget).
Supervision missions several times raised this i3sue and recommended the
central Government's strong intervention. The MoH adequately responded to
the problem. The Deputy Minister issued a letter to all provinces and
requested them to abandon such a practice. This intervention proved effective
so far, but there is no absolute certainty that this will stand after the Project
ends.

The Project intended to conduct 45 operational research studies on various
topics. This exercise was marginally effective, based on the overall feedback
the ICR team received from various stakeholders. The quality of proposals
was low. The Project provided technical assistance to improve the proposal
writing skills, which had some positive effect. From all the operational
research activities only few had a notable added value: treatment of smear-
negative patients, control of MDR-TB cases, and management of HIV/TB co-
infections.




                                 20
On May 13, 2008, on the request of the Borrower 27% of the loan proceeds were
reallocated and minor amendments were introduced in the Loan Agreement. The
reallocation was motivated by an intention to allow the Borrower to better utilize cost
saving from the Project. The amendment triggered the policy on the use of project cost
savings (OPIBP 13.25) butsince there were very few new activities introduced (involving
only 5% of the loan amo~t) second order restructuring was not triggered. The
reallocation largely involved reallocation against existing activities and categories,
increasing disbursement percentages of certain categories, and financing of value added
tax. from the project proceeds. However, since this involved significant amounts being
reallocated (in absolute terms), the Regional Vice President's approval was still obtained.
The said Amendment of the Loan Agreement's Section 1.01, allowed the borrower to use
the loan proceeds to pay taxes levied on the Borrower's or Guarantor's.territory subject to
the Bank's review of reasonability and adequacy of such taxes. Also the amendment of
paragraph 1, Schedule 1, increased the percentage of financing of category 2 and 3
expenditures from the loan amount to 100%; and the amendment of Schedule 4, Section 1,
Part C, paragraph 2, raised the national shopping. threshold for a single contract from
US$30,000 to US$100,000. These amendments were very useful as they allowed the
Borrower to better utilize the loan balance remaining as of May 2008. The ICR team
noted the Borrower's appreciation of the Bank's flexibility in authorizing such
amendment.

The Mid-Term Review (MTR) was conducted in September 2006 with the participation
of all the involved partners. The MTR acknowledged that the Project had met its
development objective targets -79% case detection (compared to 70% target) and 91.7%
cure rate (compared to 85% target). It was also acknowledged that counterpart funding
had reached the required level (even though with a caveat of the need for increased
financing in the future), and adequate institutional capacities have been created. The
MTR reconfirmed that the PDOs remained valid and no restructuring and change in the.
project's overall direction and objectives were necessary.

The MTR also pointed out the challenges that remained to be addl:essed:

           Member States of 'WHO's Regional Office forWestem Pacific (WPRO) had
           set new targets for TB control "To halve prevalence and mortality of TB by
           2010". Over the years 2000-2004, China reduced TB prevalence and mortality
           by 18% and 16% respectively compared to the regional averages of 17% and
           14.6%. However, it was still insufficient to achieve a 50% reduction by 2010.

           The quality of TB care still remained uneven throughout the country and more
           work was required to ensure adequate quality at all levels.

           In 2005, the international community had agreed ona new Stop T13 Strategy
           which replaced the previous DOTS strategy. Stop TB Strategy included all the
           elements of DOTS, but in addition covered: TBIHIV co-infection and MDR-
           TB, health system strengthening, engaging all care providers, empowering
           patients and communities, and enabling and promoting research. Even though



                                           21
           the NTP and the Project's initial objectives had been already met, efforts had
           to be intensified in order to tackle these remaining challenges.

           The available data on the performance indicators were not giving a clear
           picture of how different socio-economic groups benefited from the Project and
           the overall NTP. Disaggregated statistics on case detection and cure rates
           among the poor were not available. This was recognized as a serious concern
           to be addressed for the remainder of the project implementation period.

           Despite significant improvements in managing the flow of TB patients and
           getting them to TB dispensaries where the free treatment was available, there
           was still a significant portion of patients who did not reach TB dispensaries
           after the initial hospital visit (3 out of 10). Treatment supervision by village
           doctors was considered also low (around 16% based on a number of
           operational research studies).

           Funding of the NTP was significantly dependant on external sources. In 2005,
           44% of the total funding was from the WB, the DFID, the Global Fund, the
           nCA and other donors. The WBIDFID loan made up 21% of the total funding.
           After ~e closure of the Project the Government would need to fill the
           substantial financial gap. The .MTR estimated that additional RMB 124
           million would be needed per year starting from 2007, assuming fun funding of
           TB drugs by central government.

The MTR made adequate recommendations to address the challenges. However, the
MTR fell a bit· short of proposing more concrete measures and setting mechanisms for
ensuring their implementation. Even though so:rpe recommendations were given, no
accountability mechanisms were established. While pointing to numerous challenges, the
MTR still concluded that no modification to Project's objectives and indicators was
necessary. In fact, the MTR could have been used as an opportunity to restructure the
Project in such a way that the remaining -loan proceeds, US$51.5 million, would be
channeled towards the new targets without substantially changing the project design.
Given that the PDOs and result indicator targets had been already reached by the time of
the MTR, the result framework could have been revised to focus more on issues of
equity and access to care for the poor, the quality of care, MDR-TB, etc. The ICR team
feels that achievement of the targets earlier than the project closing date may have
brought along a slight sense of self-complacency and 'relaxation'. There was not a strong
motivation afterwards for raising the bar higher and pursuing more ambitious goals.

Nevertheles~.the MTR did introduce some new activities with strong support from the
DFID, which also provided additional grant resources for some of these activities. The
most notable was incorporation of socio-economic dimension in the patient registry in
order to permit disaggregation of TB control statistics and analysis of poverty impact.
Another development after the MTR was that the Government introduced free treatment
of smear-negative cases as well and backed this with adequate financial outlays. The
MTR also contributed to more intensified supervision by provinces of project



                                           22
 implementation at the commune levels. Counterpart financing also improved after the
 MTR.

 2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

 The ICR team rates the monitoring and evaluation arrangements as Satisfactory.
 The Project's M&E matrix was based on a well elaborated log-frame linking inputs to
 outputs and outcomes. The result indicators, while selected parsimoniously, covered the
 critical aspects of DOTS implementation strategy and were fully aligned with the
 monitoring framework of the NTP and the Global DOTS program. The project result
 framework in addition to the final outcome indicators (e.g. case detection rate, cure rate)
 included intermediate indicators (DOTS coverage rate, government expenditure on TB,
 institutional capacity measures, training of human resources, etc.) as well as a
 comprehensive list of milestone indicators related to introduction/enactment of specific
 policies and guidelines.

 The M&E arrangements were based on two pillars: one pillar was the TB control
 surveillance system, and the other - the internal project management information system.
 The surveillance system was built on the existing health information system in a vertical
 fashion from village clinics up to the CDC. Four interconnected registries were set up: (a)
 suspect cases (consulted patients), (b) referred cases (patients subjected to diagnostic
 procedures), (c) confirmed cases, and (d) treated cases. The surveillance system is fully
 computerized. Information entered at the TB dispensary is immediately reflected in the
 central statistics. The surveillance system allows quick and accurate analysis of the
 number of consultations, the number of sputum examinations, newly identified smear-
 positive and smear-negative cases, the number of patients on treatment and the treatment
 outcomes (intermediate, e.g. sputum conversion, as wen as the final- cure rates) .

. The project management information system (the second pillar of M&E) was based on
  monitoring of the implementation of the program activities through regular supervisions.
  The National TB Control Program Office supervised each province twice a year. In .
  addition, annual assessments were organized based on 'self-check' of involved
  institutions and 'spot-check' by supervisory units. Each province would submit a
  comprehensive semi-annual progress report to FLO, which then would furnish a
  consolidated report to the World Bank and DFID. In addition short status reports were
  prepared before each supervision mission.

  In addition to this, there were one World Bank led supervision mission and one joint
  supervision mission per year. The former focused on the project implementation aspects.
  The latter, which included the MoH, the DFID, the Global Fund, the Gates Foundation
  (since 2008), Damien Foundation, the WHO and the WB, focused more on technical
, issues ofNTP implementation.

 The mid-term and final evaluations were contracted out by the FLO to independent,
 professional research organizations through competitive selection. The ICR team was
 impressed by the quality of the final evaluation of the Project, which was comprehensive
 and methodologically sound.


                                            23
Until the MTR of 2006, the M&E system lacked adequate mechanisms for evaluating
incidence of Project benefits among various socio-economic groups. As described in the
earlier section, after the MTR report strongly pointed out this limitation,me problem was
fixed with very active involvement ofDFID. However this means that only those benefits
that occurred after the MTR can be disaggregated by socio-economic status.

The project M&E benefited from having relatively up-to-date and very comprehensive
epidemiological data at the preparation stage. The 4th nation-wide TB epidemiology
survey was carried out in 2000 providing accurate figures of TB prevalence. This gave a
good basis for baseline data, particularly for the case detection rates. Since then no
epidemiology survey has been conducted to adjust the prevalence statistics. The WHO
and the CDC of China have nevertheless tried to predict the course of the epidemic
changes through modeling, on which the current case detection rates are based. Therefore
the ICR team thinks that there is some degree of uncertainty about the current statistics,
including the project result indicators, but the uncertainty margin is likely to be small.
There is a higher chance that true prevalence of TB currently is less than it was in 2000
(the ICR team's guess is between 15-20%).

 The 5th TB prevalence survey is planned in 2010, and an appropriate national budget has
 been allocated to this activity. However there is one limitation about the way the 2000
'survey was done and the next survey will be conducted as wen - the survey is not
 province representative. Deploying sampling methodology that would allow province
representativeness will cost muchmore than the current sampling approach, which is the
main drawback. Only 8 out of 31 provinces are able to conduct provincial prevalence
 surveys However it is necessary to have statistics that would accurately represent the
state of TB control in each province and the Government should consider this option
more seriously.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards compliance is rated as Satisfactory. The Project was assessed as
Environmental Category C, requiring no formal environmental assessment. The Project
was expected to have no adverse environmental impact because the Project mostly
focused on institutional strengthening, improving policies and access to health services.
Civil works were limited to minor repairs and renovations of existing clinics.

In line with the recommendations of the Project Concept Note (peN) stage safeguards
review a comprehensive social assessment was conducted.in four provinces (Annex 11 of
PAD). High cost of the assessment prevented it from being implemented in an Project
provinces. However the findings from the four provinces were highly relevant and
~pplicable to other provinces as well. Social issues were dealt not only through a one-
time social assessment as it is common in many other projects, but social assessment and
monitoring function was incorporated in the NTP. A fun· time post of Social Assessment
Coordinator was created at the National TB Control Program Office. Social Assessment
Coordinators were appointed at the province level as wen.


                                           24
The usefulness of the outcomes of the social assessments conducted in various provinces
exceeded the expectations of the local experts and defeated their initial skepticism. The
FLO and the provincial TB control authorities expressed to the ICR team a great deal of
appreciation of the external partners' insistence on incorporating the social assessment in
the project activities.

Financial Management (FM) is rated Satisfactory. Financial management records and
reporting were submitted regularly and all of the external audits were prepared on time
and with unqualified opinions. On the basis of the experience with implementation,
reallocation of funds within categories was approved by the Bank. Disbursements
proceeded at a variable pace but by the time of the project completion the proceeds of the
loan were almost entirely disbursed. Withdrawal applications were prepared regularly
and supporting documentation was complete.

Procurement is rated Satisfactory. For the most· part procurement was implemented
without major difficulties and its performance was consistently rated Satisfactory. Even
though initially the provinces had limited experience in procurement under the WB
guidelines the procurement activities were conducted smoothly as a result of effective
capacity building and strong support from the FLO. In May 2008 the threshold for a
single contract shopping was raised from 30,000 to 100,000 which helped speed up the
procurement process.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Even though the Project successfully achieved its development objectives and result
indicators, TB control will remain a major public health challenge for China for the years
to corne. There are still many issues that need to be addressed which could not be
accommodated under the scope of the completed Project. During the past 10 years China
has been implementing significant health sector reforms, particularly in the area of health
financing. It is important that TB control and other public health programs get
mainstreamed in these systemic reforms and do not remain as isolated public health
interventions.

The ICR team endorses several recommendations made in the Aide Memoire of May
2009 for the next phase of TB control and a potential collaboration between China and
the World Bank in this area:

          Reducing inequity in TB detection and treatment. Even though diagnosis and
          treatment of smear-positive and smear-negative TB cases is currently free, it is
          very likely that a significant share of socio-economically vulnerable
          population still face access barriers. A thorough research on the equity of TB
          detection and treatment would be very useful to better understand the depth of
          the problem, its root causes and possible mitigation strategies.

          Programmatic management of MDR-TB. The problem of MDR-TB is very
          serious. It is surprising that despite high cure rates achieved through the
          Project, MDR-TB still remains unabated. China is now confronting the second


                                           25
largest epidemic of MDR-TB in the world. Treatment of a MDR-TB case is
much more expensive than of a regular TB case, and it is not free for the
patients. This poses economic burden on the health system and patients, and
creates a major public health threat to the healthy population. China developed
a National Action Plan for the Programmatic management of Drug Resistant
TB, 2007-2020, which maps out steps to achieve universal access to MDR-TB
diagnosis and treatment by 2020. With current available resources, taking into
account the Global Fund grants, patient enrollment in MDR-TB treatment is
insufficient. By 2015, only 10% of the estimated total arising cases per year
will have access to treatment.

Introduction and scale up of new diagnostic tools and drugs. The new strategy
of Stop TB, which replaced the DOTS strategy, promotes program-based
operational research and introduction of new tools into practice. In the NTP
there are several areas deserving attention: piloting and then expanding the
new definition for smear-positive cases; piloting and expanding the 2 smear
policy versus the old 3 smear policy; implementing fix-dose drug
combinations (FDC's); piloting new drugs such as moxifloxacine; introducing
molecular techniques in TB diagnosis; integration of TB laboratories with
public health laboratories; etc.

TB control and health system reforms. In April 2009, the Government
unveiled a vision for the next phase of health sector reforms, which contain
five priority areas: health care coverage and insurance for all, community
health services, public hospital management reform, essential pharmaceuticals,
and basic public health services. Integration of TB care into health insurance
package has already started. However the financing model requires further
streamlining as there is still some level of fragmentation in it in terms of who
pays for what, as well as what type of TB diagnostic and treatment services
are included in the package. Another, and probably more challenging issue is
organization of TB diagnosis and treatment. The current TB dispensaries may
not be the most cost-effective and sustainable model of TB care in the long-
run. China needs to think how to package TB care effectively into a more
integrated, one-stop-shop type, primary health care services, how to ensure
that various providers, whether a hospital or an outpatient clinic, use the same
protocols of care for the same type of TB cases.

Strengthening the role of hospitals and laboratories in TB control. The Stop
TB strategy of WHO calls for the increasing involvement of all health care
providers in the delivery of TB services, which is expected to improve access
to TB diagnosis and care. The involvement and quality of TB care in China is
rather inadequate. About 30% to 60% of suspect patients fail to arrive at TB
dispensaries by themselves when referred from a hospital. TB dispensaries
have to trace such suspect patients to bring them to the clinic, which is rather
expensive and labor intensive. Standardized diagnosis and care at all levels of
health services, and not only at TB dispensaries, will improve access and case



                                26
           detection. Equally important is to ensure the quality of TB laboratory services
           through external quality assurance (EQA). There is a significant amount of
           work to be done to improve the quality of lab services, especially outside TB
           dispensaries.

Since the World Bank and China started collaboration on TB control, the global donor
architecture in relation to TB care has significantly changed, mainly due to the arrival of
the Global Fund, and a number of philanthropic organizations. It is important to continue
coordinated efforts among the MoH and various donors to maximize synergy and reduce
duplication.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective of the TB control Project in China was to reduce tuberculosis morbidity
and mortality, especially among the poor, which was highly relevant to the challenges of
high TB burden and relatively weak public health system at the time the Project was
approved. As discussed in Section 1, the disease burden caused by TB was substantial.
TB would progressively affect more people if. no effective intervention were
implemented to halt the epidemic. This would be particularly devastating for the poor,
who' are disproportionately affected bythe disease. "More importantly, there was a huge
gap between the required fmancial resources for TB control and the actual government
funding and spending.

The project design was closely related and well coordinated with the principles, overall
objectives, implementation measures and action plan of China's third ·10-year National
TB Control Plan (2000-2010). Actually, some of the experts involved in project design
and implementation supervisions were also part of the team that developed the 10-year
Plan. All of this made the Project well integrated into the National Plan, and grassroots
level activities of the Project fit naturally with routine work of local TB facilities. This
contributed to a strong national ownership to the Project and provided necessary
preconditions for the sustainability of its outcomes.

The project design was straightforward and based on core elements of DOTS strategy.
At the time of the Project approval, the DOTS coverage was low indicating that basic TB
management still had many constraints. The choice to focus on basic DOTS was
appropriate given the epidemic situation in the country, available resources, and existing
human resource and technical capacities. Amore complex "a-to-z" type design would be
riskier to implement. There were discussions at the design ,stage whether to incorp9rate
MDR-TB control or not, and it was decided to keep the design simple and more focused
on the basic DOTS. After almost ten years since the Project was designed, its design is
still relevant. Of course the realities and capacities in China have changed and presently
the scope of TB control can be scaled up to more comprehensive approach, but the basic
elements of DOTS are still needed.




                                            27
The Project was designed as Ii platform for innovations and operational research activities
that focused on some special challenges. These efforts strengthened the institutional
capacity for conducting operational research. Local experts were trained in writing and
critically evaluating research proposal. In addition, an ethical committee was set up in
relation to TB-specific research. This was the·first ethical committee ever established for
TB research in China. The committee is still functional.

Some of the innovations and outcomes produced through operations research have been
translated into actions and policies, e.g., free treatment for smear-negative patients,
transportation subsidys for poor patients, and· customized education materials for ethnic
minorities. Other research findings and innovations may have implications for future
work in TB control. For example, the pilot project to prevent and treat HIV-associated
TB and the operational research about financing basic DOTS via the New Rural
Cooperative Medical Scheme (NCMS) are very relevant for the ongoing and future health
sector reforms and integration of TB control into the overall health systems.

Consistent with past Bank-supported health projects, the Project was implemented
through the four-level administrative structure (central, provincial, prefecture and county).
The project implementation was steered by two major institutions - the National TB
control center and the FLO. The former was overseeing technical issues and the latter
was administering and managing the project activities. This approach was appropriate for
the local context as it enabled the use of the existing administrative structures 'and
resources, made capacity building and institutional strengthening better tailored and more
effective.

This project was implemented as an integral part of the NTP. Annual planning under the
NTP combined the planning of the project activities as well. The project supervision
missions would evaluate not only the project progress and its management, but also the
implementation of the NTP activities. Therefore the supervision missions were composed
as a multi-disciplinary group capable of tackling various types of technical and
operational issues at the same time.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO of this project was "to reduce TB morbidity and mortality though an effective
and sustainable national TB control program especially among the poor". The key
indicators to measure the PDOs attainment were: a) 70% case detection rate of new
smear-positive cases; b) at least 85% cure rate of smear-positive. TB cases; c) full funding



S Subsidizing transportation for the poor was not mandatory policy for the whole nation. Not all project
provinces provided transportation subsidies to the patients because of the limited availability of funds for
this. The central level worked out guideline for subsidizing transportation costs for the poor, and the
provinces had a choice to follow or fonnulate their own guidelines according to the local context. Some
provinces still provide some transportation subsidy to the poor patients like Chongqing, Henan etc.



                                                     28
of critical program components, including free treatment for all smear-positive TB cases,
from regular governmental budget; and d} establishment. of adequate and effective
institutions to control TB at all govetnmentallevels.

In this section the ICR team discusses the project achievements against the PDOs
indicators and outputs that contributed to these achievements. A more detailed account of,
the project outputs is provided in Annex 2.

Objective 1. 70% Case detection rate of new smear-positive cases and at least 85% cure
rate of smear-positive cases.                                             .

The Project was successful in achieving the target of 70% for the case detection rate of
new smear-:positive cases in project areas. The latest available information shows that the
case detection rate exceeded 70% in 2005 in project provinces and remained around 77%
since then. This achievement is a substantial improvement compared with the situation at
the beginning of the Project when the overall detection rates in the projectprovmces were
low and uneven across provinces. In 2002, the overall detection rate of new smear-·
positive TB patients in project areas was only 23.26%. The detection rates in the former
IEDe project provinces such as Chorigqing and Hubei (over 40%) were higher than non-
EIDe project provinces; The detection rates .in some non-IEDC project provinces
(Yunnan, Jilin, Inner Mongolia and Shanxi) in 2002 were even lower than 5%. By 2005,
the average detection rate of new· smear-positive rose to· ·77,8%. The diffetence across
provinces appeared to be smaller, ranging from 63.7% in Xinjiang to ,102% in Yunnan.
Since 2005 almost all project provinces managed to keep the detection rate above 70% in
each year. Xinjiang Autonomous Region was the only exception, with detection rates
being slightly lower than 70% in 2008 (65%).

The cure rate for new smear-positive cases under this pr6ject has greatly exceeded the ..
goal of 85%. From 2002 to the first quarter in 2009, the Project registered and treated
approximately 1.598 million new smear-positive patients. Among these 'patients, -1.505
million patients completed the treatment (94.2%) and 1.499 million patients Were cured
(93.8%). The cure rate has been quite stable over time during the project implementation.


The achievement of the key' indicators was made possible through a combination' of
outputs produced by the Project under different components. A detailed account of
outputs is presented in Annex. 2. In this section only some key outputs are discussed
which made the most significant contribution to the Project Development Objective.

           The Project created a supportive policy environment and invested in
           institutional strengthening to improve case finding and treatment effectiveness.
           Firstly, central level TB control institutions were strengthened through the
           establishment of the central project coordination team, the National Center for
           TB Control and Prevention (NCTB), and the TB Expert Advisory Committee.
           Secondly, policies and plans were formulated and reviewed to guide TB




                                           29
              control Work, including a detailed implementation plan for NTP, a national
              TB health promotion strategy, and a national IEC plan.

              Geographical DOTS Coverage in the project areas expanded from 38.8% to
              100% between 2002 and 2005 and remained at this level until the end of the
              Project. .          ,.              .

              The Project used results of social assessment and operational research to
              identify factors that delayed patients' care seeking and to develop new
              policies. For example, a policy for transportation subsidy6 was proposed after
              the· mid-term review,. which encouraged patients with TB diagnosis to
              complete their treatment.
              Health education activities were conducted to improve knowledge and
              awareness of TB. This was done under the national IEC plan using a health
              promotion resource database, which· was also developed through the project
              support (a "TB Prevention and Control Health Education Resource Database",
              consisting of 8 discs). The Project also tailored health promotioJl materials to
              its target populatio~ by using the languages of main ethnic minority groups.

              The Project supported development of a very good quality health promotion
              strategy, which was prepared by concerted efforts of international and
              domestic experts. The strategy is still in use in NTP. Besides the strategy a
              health promotion toolkit was also developed, which has been already updated
              once since its original version was issued.

              Access to TB services was improved through· significantly reducing financial
              barriers for the patients. The Project delivered 31;7 million smear tests from
              2002 to 2009; free TB diagnosis services have been provided to1O.7 million
              "first-time "suspect cases (those who did not have a history of a prior TB
              diagnosis). Transportation subsidy was provided to 38,395 poor patients from
              2007-2009.

              The network reporting system initiated in 2004 boosted the referral·andarrival
              of TB suspects and patients in project provinces; the arrival rate increased
              from 62.6% in 2005 to 80.7% in 2008. All together 2.0 million pulmonary TB
              cases and suspected cases have been reported through the network by general
              medical institutions in the project areas.

          -   Resources were made available for TB facilities to provide free TB diagnosis
              and treatment. The project provinces constructed or refurbished 553 buildings
              in total. The project areas upgraded office and laboratory equipment (e.g.,
              computers, fax machines, microscopes, X-ray machines, incubators) for TB



6   See footnote 5.



                                              30
           facilities; purchasedsupen'ision cars and health education equipments ;
           procured anti-TB drugs to make sure· that TB facilities effectively carry out
           network reporting, lab tests, diagnosis and treatment, supervision management
           and health education activities .

          . Financial incentives were provided to practitioners for detecting and curing
            TB cases. Doctors were paid for reporting suspected cases if the case turned
            out to be an active case; doctors received payment for a complete supervision
            and timely delivery of sputum samples;. after the mid-term review, the Project
            started subsidizing TB' facility experts annually to incentivize them
            (approximately RMB 7.0 million for 13,139 experts from 2007-2009).

           the capacity of identifying smear-positive cases at local level was improved.
           The proportion of county-level facilities that could do sputum microscopy
           tests increased from 64.12% in 2002 to 98.11% in 2009. The number of
           sputum smears done in county-level labs more than tripled, from 1.708
           million in 2002 to 6.065 million in 2008. The Project used x ray films in
           combination with sputum smear tests for TB diagnosis instead of relying on
           fluoroscopy. This project purchased 9.4 million x-ray films from 2002-2009.

Objective 2. Full funding of critical program components, including free treatment for
all smear-positive TB cases, from regular government budget.

This PDO indicator was generally achieved but with some limitations. While free
treatment of smear-positive TB cases is provided as planned, but the government has not
yet picked up the full bill for the NTP to be paid 100% from the regular budget. Through
the project implementation period, the government contribution for TB control reached
RMB 1.472 billion, 42.3% higher than initially intended. Over the period of the project
implementation the state funding of the NTP has drastically increased. The central level
funding increased fromRMB 40 million in 2001 to RMB 500 million in 2009. The
increased central level funding was matched by provinces as well: the provincial funding
went up in the same period from RMB 45 million to RMB 120 million. This made
possible full funding of free treatment of smear-positive TB cases from the regular
government budget. In addition free treatment of smear-negative cases were introduced.
The state budget is used to pay salaries of staff, anti-TB drugs and operating costs of the
TB care network. It is planned to incorporate TB care (except for MDR-TB) in the
various rural or urban health insurance schemes.       .

Despite these achievements financial sustainability still remains at risk as· China is
moving from DOTS strategy towards a more comprehensive Stop TB strategy. It is
estimated that RMB 634.87 million will be needed to carry out the basic DOTS program
annually. The central government intends to cover 42% of these costs, the local
governments shall allocate 53%, and the remaining 5% is planned to be covered from
Global Fund grants. So far the local governments have committed only 23% of the
required amount, which creates a 40.4% funding gap. It is not yet clear whether the
central government will fill the gap or donors will pick the bill.



                                            31
Objective 3. Establishment of adequate and effective institutions to control TB at aU
governmental· levels

This Project has achieved the objective of establishing adequate institutions to control TB
at all government levels. The central level TB control institutions were strengthened
through the establishment of the central project coordination team, the NCTB, and the TB
Expert Advisory Committee. The project coordination team and project management
offices were established at each local government level. In addition, the Project managed
to meet the target in terms of the number of counties with adequate TB control facilities -
in 2006 the target number of 1447 counties was reached through establishing new or
strengthening the existing TB facilities. This was a 10% increase compared with 2002
level.

The Project also achieved the objective of establishing effoctive TB control institqtions by
strengthening their capacity in financial management and planning, as well as in
improving the quality of TB care.

           When the Project ended, the TB facilities in project areas were able to make
           evidence-based estimates of their financial needs. This could be illustrated by
           the well elaborated sustainability plans developed by each province. The
           provinces estimated their future funding need based on the estimated
           workload of treatment, supervision and health promotion activities and
           corresponding average costs for treatment and subsidies, instead of relying on
           traditional line-item budgeting. The evidence-based program management
           methods, together with better information on program performance and
           outputs, which were developed under the Project, will be very useful for local
           health authorities in program planning and budget negotiations.

            As mentioned above. the Project funded refurbishment and equipment of
            some TB facilities, which gave them basic amenities and tools to control and
            prevent TB effectively. According to the survey on essential equipment in
            Project-supported facilities, over half of the computers, microscopes, X-ray
          . machines, fax machines, bio-safety cabinets, constant-temperature incubators,
            rapid culture, identification equipments. and supervision cars can still be used
            at least for the next 3 years.

          The Project invested greatly in training personnel of TB control facilities.
          During of the Project implementation, 82,665 training sessions (3.5 million
          person times) have been organized at province, prefecture and county levels.
          The training sessions covered project management, fmancial management and
          technical skills, with most sessions focusing on technical training and
          conducted at the county level.




                                            32
            The TB labs at each level have greatly improved their capacity to conduct
            more advanced diagnostic services. The number of provincial reference labs
            that can carry out sputum microscopy tests, culture of mycobacterium
            tuberculosis, sensitivity test of TBdrugs and strain identification, has
            increased from 10 to 16. The proportion of city-level labs that can do sputum
            culture has increased from 18.03% to 21.35%. The proportion of county-level
            labs that can carry out culture of mycobacterium tuberculosis increased from
            2.91 % to 6.82%.            .

 Despite these achievements still significant challenges remain with regard to the lack of
 qualified human resource (both clinical and managerial) to sustain TB work at county
 level and below. This was constantly raised in every supervision mission. The local
 health authorities and the Ministry of Health shall continue intensive efforts to strengthen
 human resources for TB care.


 3.3 Efficiency

 The ICRJeam did not conduct a cost-benefit analysis. However the Borrower undertook a
 limited cost-benefit analysis which is summarized here. In this section, the ICR team also
 comments on the assumptions made for economic analysis during appraisal ..

 Cost-benefit analysis results from project appraisal~'
 At the time the Project was approved, the economic analysis showed that Project could be
 more cost-effective than the expanded program of immunization' (EPI) which is usually
 considered one of the most cost-effective interventions in the health sector. It was
 estimated that 529,208 smear positive TB cases and 128,421 deaths would be averted
 through project interventions; 2,996,940 Discounted Healthy Life Years (DHLYs) would
 be gained at the unit of cost ofUS$53.43 per DHLY.


 The main assumptions used by this analysis included: 1) The Project cost was US$160.14
 million at the provincial level; 2) Without Project interventions, the smear-positive TB
 prevalence rate would decrease by the same extent as it did in the non-IEDC project'
 provinces between 1990 and 2000, i.e., 3.2 percent, and the TB mortality rates per
 100,000 population would reduce by one percent from 2000-2010. 3) With Project
 interventions, the smear-positive TB prevalence rate would fall by 27.5% as it did in
 IEDC provinces between 1990 and 2000 and TB mortality rate would decline by 53%
 from 9.8 per 100,000 population to 4.6 per 100,000 by 2010. 4} The number of DHLYs
 gained per smear-positive TB case averted was two months' ofa healthy life and per
 death averted was 22.65 years respectively.

  Looking back at these assumptions, assumption 1 and assumption 4 are well justified.
. With regard to assumption 2, one could argue that the extent of reduction of new smear-
  positive cases without the project interventions (base scenario) could be somewhat
  underestimated as it did not take into account the possible positive impact of socio-
  economic development that occurred since IECD project on the incidence of TB.


                                             33
However at the time of appraisal it was not possible to make a more accurate projection
about the future decrease of smear-positive cases. Therefore ICR team considers
assumption 2 acceptable. For assumption 3, additional data from the on-going fifth
epidemiological survey is needed to verify the accuracy of this assumption about the
prevalence rate and mortality rate in 2010.

Cost-benefit analysis results from final evaluation report:
Cost-benefit analysis was conducted by the Borrower using a somewhat different
approach. The analysis showed that in 2008 the average project cost was US$35.1 for
each TB case (initial or retreatment case) detected and US$ 146.1 for each active TB
patient cured. With project interventions, 1,644,452 additional TB cases have been
detected from 2002-2008, which could be translated into the aversion of 82,223 TB
deaths and US$ 3.9 billion GDP loss. In addition, these benefits could potentially be
larger, e.g., aversion of around US$ 7.3billion GDP loss, considering that one untreated
TB patient could·infect on average 10 to 15 people a year. (More details are provided in
Section 5.5 in the Borrower's fmal evaluation report);

The following assumptions were used in the analysis: 1) the mortality rate of smear-
positive cases in project areas during the period between 2002 and 2008 was 5 pel'Cent; 2)
there would be 18 years of life lost for each TB death based on the national TB
epidemiological survey results; and 3) The GDP loss was calculated based on a 5%
annual discount rate.

The ICR team considers these assumptions adequate.


3.4 JustiticatioQ of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR team considers the overall outcomes of the Project as satisfactory. As described
above, the Project achieved all its development objectives earlier than the project closing
date and exceeded targets. The Project has made a huge impact on the TB control in
China and allowed the country to reach the global DOTS strategy targets. Strong political
cotrimitment was generated at the central and sub-national levels for tackling TB
epidemic, and the Project helped mobilize an unprecedented amount of local financial
resources· for TB control. This is a significant assurance for the sustainability of the
project outcomes. The Project improved availability and accessibility of TB diagnostic
and treatment services for almost 680 million population in the poorest and most
disadvantaged counties and provinces. The Project laid a strong policy and institutional
ground at the central and provincial level through which further improvements in the
control of TB and other communicable diseases can be sustained. The Project has also
created an excellent environment and organizational setting for future cooperation among
donors in the area of TB control.




                                              34
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The ICR Team did not conduct an independent evaluation of the Project's impact on
poverty, gender and social development. However, the final evaluation of the Project
conducted by the Client did look into issues of equity and access in a small number of
counties. However given that there is no baseline data available on the poverty impact of
TB in the project provinces it will be difficult to ascertain a specific poverty or gender
impact that can be attributed to the Project. The small scale survey commissioned by the
FLO (in 8 counties) identified a big variation in the affordability of TB diagnosis and
treatment. For example, in Qiaokou and other economically developed areas, TB
diagnosis and treatment make up 2% of the annual household income of the patients, and
a very small share of patients regard this as a heavy financial burden. Conversely in the
poorest counties sampled (e.g. in the provinces oflnner Mongolia and Jiangxi) the cost of
TB diagnosis arid treatment is as high as 10% of the household's annual income.

The same survey found almost no delay in the commencement of treatment after
diagnosis, which indicates good access to treatment. This is due to· the fact that under the
NTP, treatment is free for all smear-positive as well as smear-negative infectious
pulmonary TB cases. Introduction of free treatment of TB, which was not universal
before the Project, is a very important pro-poor feature of the Project. After the mid-term
review the Project also introduced a transportation subsidy for the poor patients
diagnosed with TB to improve their access to TB dispensaries and encourage completion
of treatment. Access to TB care is further supported by -the recent developments in health
financing system - TB care will be included in the NCMS. The rate of reimbursement
will vary among various counties. One drawback of the design is that patients have to pay
first and then get reimbursed later by the NCMS, which will still limit access for those
individuals who do not have free cash to pay upfront. Alternative arrangements - like
case-based payments and the transfer of financial responsibility for TB care from CDC to
an insurance scheme - are currently piloted by the NCTB with support from WHO.

The survey did not fmd any statistically significant difference in the utilization of TB
diagnostic and curative services among women and men, suggesting absence of gender
disparity. Also no significant variance has been identified between Han and minority
ethnic groups either in utilization of TB services or diagnosi$-treatment delay, which
suggests equity of access among various ethnic groups.

The findings of this small scale survey shall be taken with caution though. The survey
was not provincially representative and in the absence of the baseline data, it is difficult
to judge about poverty, social and gender impact attributable to the Project. However it is
very likely that the Project had strong positive pro-poor impact for two reasOl1$: (a)
introduction of free treatment for smear-positive and smear-negative infectious
pulmonary TB, which in some provinces can consume 10% of the annual household
income as mentioned above, will reduce the financial burden on the poor and increase
their disposable income; (b) increased detection and cure of TB especially in the prime
economic age popUlation will increase their productivity and earning potential.


                                            35
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Building stronger institutions for TB control was an important outcome of the Project, in
which it undoubtedly succeeded. In the interest of the project implementation a four-tier
vertical management system was created covering central, provincial, prefecture and
county levels. Creation of the CDC with its sub-national .branches. has provided a
backbone to the entire system of public health services in China. Within the structure of
_CDC, a National CenterofTB Control was created with two departments: (a) TB Control
Uffice - responsible for epidemiological surveillance, pl&'1Iling, monitoring, and
supervision; and (b) technical and professional department - responsible for technical
guidance, training, development of norms/protocols, social assessment, information and
educational campaign, operations research, etc.

In addition to organizational realignment, institutional strengthening was also marked by
a development or revision of health policies, guidelines, and protocols related to TB
control.

The most significant improvements in terms of institutional strengthening occurred at the
sub-national level. In 2002, among the 1512 Project counties only 90% had a TB facility.
By 2006 all counties had renovated and fully functioning TB facilities. The Project has
made a significant improvement in the working conditions and technical capacity of the
TB . institutions through refurbishing facilities, and supplying office equipment,
supervision vehicles, bio..gafety cabinets, x-ray machines, and other small scale
equipment.

At the time of the Project commencement 10 out of 16 provincial reference labs could
carry out sputum microscopy test, culture of mycobacterium tuberculosis, sensitivity test
to TB drugs and strain identification. By the end of the Project all labs were capable of
conducting these tests. The percentage of county-level labs that could carry out sputum
microscopy and the culture has increased from 64.12% and 2.91% to 98.11% and 6.82%
respectively.

With the establishment of improved TB facilities, the team of prevention and control staff
has been expanded from 13,612 prior to the Project to 17,057 by its completion. This
constitutes a 25.3% increase. The greatest increase happened at the county level. This
was accompanied by an increase of medical personnel with educational attainment higher
than junior college level and with intermediate and higher professional degrees. The
Project provided large scale training to health care personnel in project management,
financial management, clinical aspeets ofTB care, epidemiology, etc.

A significant development was institutionalization of the EQA process for sputum smear
microscopy through· which higher level labs carry out quality control of the lower level
labs. At the count level, for example, this exercise has reduced the frequency of wrong
diagnosis by 40%.




                                           36
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positire or negative)

Given much focused nature .of the PrQject on TB control, there were not any significant
unintended negative or PQsitive outcomes attributable to the Project interventiQn.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

 The ICR team. did nQt conduct beneficiary survey. However there was a workshop
.conducted to seek the opinion .of the project prQvinces. Each participating Province
 presented the progress report. Then the ICR team facilitated a discussion. about the
 benefits .of the project, implementatiQn challenges, lessQns learned, and the .overall
 satisfactiQn .of PrQvinces with the prQject management, perfQrmance .of the WQrld Bank
 and the gQvernment's .own perfQrmance. These discussions are summarized in SectiQn 7
 .of this repQrt.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

The ICR team rates the risk tQ develQpment QutCQmes as Substantial. The main risk the
ICR team envisages is relaxing attentiQn .on TBcQntrQI after having met the global targets.
A sense of self cQmplacency which may follow the achievement of targets could slQW
down the further effQrts and investments in TB contrQL The ICR Team felt that it was
very impQrtant for China to attain the glQbal DOTS targets and meet the international
cQmmitments. After these goals have been reached, it remains to be seen hQW the past
commitment and mQmentum will be sustained in the years t9 come. It is hQped that the
central and regiQnal gQvernments will maintain a sharp focus on TB cQntrol in the future
as well.

Related tQ the abQve is the risk .of inadequate funding .of TB cQntrQl. This is the mQst
significant and likely risk accQrding tQ the QpiniQn .of the ICR Team. During the life .of
the PrQject, China invested in TB cQntrQI RMB 1.472 billiQn in tQtal, RMB 440 milliQn
mQre than planned. The rise in the levelnatiQnal finding QfTB has been truly dramatic.
In 2001 the .total annual investments inTB contrQI at the central and IQcal levels were
RMB 40 million and RMB 45 milliqn annually. This has increased tQ RMB 500 milliQn
and RMB 120milliQn respectively.

Despite the commendable prQgress made during the PrQject's life time in funding the TB
care frQm local reSQurce, after the end .of the PrQject a seriQusfunding gap may emerge. It
is estimated that apprQximately RMB 634.87 milliQn will be needed tQ carry .out the basic
DOTS prQgram. The central GQvernment intends tQ CQver RMB 270 milliQn (42% .of the
tQtal CQst .of the DOTS prQgram). The lQcalGQvernments shall allQcateRMB 330 million
(53% .of the tQtal cost .of the DOTS prQgram). The rest will be cQvered frQm the GIQbal
Fund grants. So far the IQcal gQvernments have cQmmitted only RMB 77.83 milliQn (23%
of therequired). This leaves a shQrtfall .of abQut RMB 256.46 milliQn (40.4% .of the tQtal
required budget). These CQst estimates include .only basic DOTS strategy. If .one CQunts in
reSQurces required fQr tackling MDR-TB additiQnal RMB 2 billiQn will be needed. It is


                                           37
not clear yet, how these resources w.ill be mobilized. The ICR team received verbal
assurance from the'MoH and the provincial health authorities that all the efforts would be
made to raise necessary resources, but this goal still remains under risk. The central and
especially the local governments shall make very fIrm commitment to continue adequate
funding of TB control in the future from the local resource, without which the
achievements of the Project will be easily reversed and gigantic efforts made during the
past nine years wasted.

Some degree of risk is associated with adequacy of human resources for TB control.
Despite a signifIcant progress the Project made, there is still a lot to be done to improve
the quality of medical personnel and staffing levels to meet the requirements of Stop TB
strategy which is more demanding than DOTS strategy. In terms of adequacy of staffing
levels, out of 1,681 TB control units in 16 provinces of the Project, only 53% meet the
requirements.

Another risk to the Project outcomes stems from the current reforms in health fmancing,
which envisages integration ofTB care into the benefIt package·ofthe NCMS. While this
is a commendable effort, its effectiveness depends on how copayments will be set, what
particular services will be included in the package (e.g. inpatient vs out-patient), how the
providers will be paid, etc. So far these issues are still being debated. It is likely that
schemes will vary frOl11 province to province as well. It is important to take into account
the lessons learned from social assessment when designing the benefIt package and
consider carefully the impact of the reforms on TB diagnosis and treatment.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The ICR team rates the Bank's performance as Highly Satisfactory. In section 2.1 the
ICR team has elaborated its views on the appropriateness of the project design at the time
ofits approval. The Project's quality at entry was recognized by the President's award for
excellence. The strong points of Bank's performance at the design phase were:
outstanding .collaboration with other development partners, strong technical input,
innovative thinking and approach, sensitivity to the client's needs and context, learning
from lessons gained in previous operations, and building mechanisms for sustainability
and local ownership.




                                            38
 (b) Quality of Supervision

 Rating: Satisfactory

 The ICR team rates the Bank's performance as Satisfactory. There were two supervision
 missions annually - one lead by the Bank and the other, so called joint monitoring
 missions, conducted jointly by all involved partners (WB, WHO, DFID, MoH). The joint·
 mqnitoring missions were focused mostly on the technical issues of the implementation
 of DOTS strategy and provided valUable guidance to the MoH and Provincial
 Departments of Health. The regular supervision mission led by the Bank focused more on
 project implementation issues, disbursement, procurement and fmancial management
 aspects. The Aide Memoires produced after the supervision and joint monitoring
 missions were well written, concise, and contained useful recommendations and guidance.

 Supervision of the Project maintained a good balance betWeen 'macro' and 'micro' issues,
 between policy relevant questions and implementation progress. The supervision and
 monitoring teams always included strong technical experts, and the analytical work done
 during supervision and monitoring was of high quality.

 The quality of ISRs however was less satisfactory than that of Aide Memoires. The ISRs
 could benefit from a bit more substantive information. The ICR team also noticed that
 there was some mismatch between the ISR ratings and Aide Memoires - the ISR ratings
 during the first 2 years of the project implementation were somewhat higher than what
 one would expect from the Aide Memoires.                              .

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance'

 Rating: Satisfactory
 For the reasons elaborated above, the ICR team rates the Bank's overall performance as
 Satisfactory. The Bank demonstrated· excellent cooperation with the Borrower and
 development partners. The design of the Project was most appropriate for the context and
 its implementation led to achievement of the development result indicator targets earlier
 than the Project closing date.

 5.2 Borrower Performance

 (a) Government Performance

 Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

  The ICR team rates the Government's performance during the design as Highly
  Satisfactory and during the implementation as Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR Team
. was impressed by the intensity of the work that the Government did through its expert
  panel in developing the PIP. The ICR Team has reviewed successive iterations of the PIP
  and noted that there was a remarkable progress from the first to the last version in terms
  of its quality and comprehensiveness. This reflects several things: (a) willingness of the



                                             39
Government to take external advice and learn from the international experience; (b) good
spirit of cooperation and trust; (c) ability to compromise and reach consensus.

During the implementation phase the Government continued supporting the project
through strong political commitment to the Project development objectives. Without such
political commitment especially from the MoH the Project may not have achieved its
objectives.

However the Government, especially at the county level, had some difficulties, until the
late stage of the Project, in meeting its financial commitment for co-financing. This was
reflected in Unsatisfactory rating of Counterpart Financing section of ISRs until January
2006. With the improvement of performance, the rating was then upgraded to Moderately
Satisfactory. From November 2009, the counterpart financing has been Satisfactory. By
the end of the Project the Government contributed RMB 440 million more than initially
planned. There were also a few cases when the Provincial Departments of Finance
wanted to pass the loan repayment obligation to the Departments of Health and
sometimes to health care institutions. With the intervention of the MoH this practice was
suspended. Hopefully it will not be resumed after the Project's completion.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Project was implemented by the Foreign Loan Office (FLO). The ICR Team
considers implementation as Highly Satisfactory. The FLO has a long experience in
implementing World Bank funded projects. The FLO has been adequately staffed
throughout the project implementation. The Project staff has been well trained in all
aspects of project management. Procurement and financial management have been
carried out well. External audits were conducted regularly without any qualifying
findings. Sometimes in certain provinces there were delays in the reimbursement of
expenditures but this did not have a systematic character and was corrected once the
supervision mission pointed to it

The FLO conducted regular supervision visits to the project provinces in addition to the
Bank's official supervision missions. There was an efficient and effective exchange of
information between various levels of the project implementation structure. FLO
established an excellent cooperation with aU project provinces and maintained good
relations with the local governments. Monitoring and evaluation was carried out
adequately and on a regular basis.

The ICR team was impressed with the quality of mid-term and final evaluation reports
prepared by the FLO.

The ICR Team recognizes that slow disbursement in the first phase of the project
implementation was an issue of concern for the World Bank. This is common in the
World Bank projects, and the current Project was not an exception. The reasons for the



                                          40
slow disbursement are discussed in earlier sections of this report. Nevertheless, despite
the slow start, the Project still achieved an almost 100% disbursement rate.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR Team was considering between Highly Satisfactory and Satisfactory rating.
However in the end it was decided to rate the overall performance as Satisfactory on the
grounds that until a rather late stage of the implementation the Government could not
fully me~t its commitment for counterpart funding and there were some disbursement
delays in the first half of the Project.


6. Lessons Learned

The Project presents several important lessons for the Bank, for China, as well as the
international community invested in cause of TB control.

            Strong political commitment is most important factor ofa project success. In
            China TB Control Project, political commitment of the Government was the
            most important success factor. Until the political commitment reached the
            threshold level that was necessary to move the Project forward there was very
            little progress made. The political commitment in the case of this Project was
            not generated simply by signing a Loan Agreement between the WB and the
            Government of China. It was generated by the international pressure and
            recognition that (a) failure to curb the TB epidemic and meet the international
          . targets would damage the Chinese reputation in the global community; and (b)
            population health is not only a matter of physical wellbeing, but it is also an
            important contributor and enabling factor for economic development, which
            was sharply felt dUring the SARS crisis. In the case of China TB Control
            Project, all the necessary conditions for generating strong political
            commitment were in place: (a) donors concurred in their vision of what kind
            of a strategy to support, (b) they successfully communicated this vision to the
            Government, (c) the Government understood the rationale and subscribed to it,
            and (d) there was a very strong international pressure to address the problem
            of TB. Any donor funded operation shall make a very through political
            analysis to probe the level of political commitment and ensure its presence
            before the operation starts or at least at an early phase of the implementation.
            Going forward and pushing from outside may somewhat .advance
            implementation and disbursement but the results probably will not be
            sustainable.

           Full integration of the Project into the National TB Control Program was a
           key success factor. This as an important lesson to learn from. The Project was
           not a standalone operation with its separate indicators and targets. The Project



                                            41
indicators and targets were synchronized with the global DOTS targets which
happen to be the national targets as well. This had several positive effects:
there was no need to design separate monitoring and evaluation arrangements
for the Project but instead the Project used the existing health information
system and further strengthened and improved it. Being an integral part and,an
implementation mechanism of the NTP allowed the Project to be seamlessly
synchronized with other projects that were, designed later on. All the
subsequent TB control projects were brought under the umbrella of the NTP
complementing each other. The World Bank TB Control Project played an
important role as a catalyst at the time when there were no other' resources
available. In similar operations in the future, whether in China or elsewhere,
all efforts should be made during the project design to align the Project with a
national health program or health sector reforms, instead of creating a
standalone operation and think afterwards how to ensure its sustainability and
integration into the system. A simple and realistic design, which may look less
impressive on the paper than a sophisticated multi-component design with a
complex log frame, is more likely to succeed in reaching its development
objectives and producing more sustainable results.

Importance of local financial contribution for sustainabilitv. The China TB
Control Project successfully learned from the lessons presented by the
previous operations - key ingredient for sustainability is local financial
commitment and participation. The Project achieved a substantial local
financial participation - 51 % of the total Project funds were contributed by the
central and local governments. The idea of counterpart funding was not very
attractive to the Government initially. Meeting local financial commitments
proved difficult particularly at the county level. However, in the end, the
Government realized that such arrangement prevented sudden budget shortfall
after the end of the Project. The financial participation of the Government, as
a share of the total expenditures, gradually increased as the Project progressed.
Such a substantial counterpart funding was warranted for the sake of
sustainability. Also it allowed the Government to use less borrowed funds for
achieving its development objectives. It shall be considered as a good practice
to seek as much local financial participation as possible in the' WB funded
projects in order to increase sustainability and reduce the cost of desired
outcomes.

 'Soft investments' can achieve more than an investment in hardware. The
greatest impact of the China TB Control Project was through the new policies,
capacity building and institutional development that were supported by the
Project. Often the World Bank's Health, Nutrition and Population (HNP)
projects are seen by borrowers as a source for funding the purchase of
equipment, medical consumables, including pharmaceutical" and fixing
physical infrastructure. Such 'procurement heavy' projects are more difficult
to supervise, require stronger implementation capacity on the borrower's side
and they take long time to disburse the funds. Also, the projects with heavy



                                42
 emphasis on 'hardware' investment face a grater sustainability risk. In the
 case of the China TB Control Project the balance between 'soft' and 'hard'
 investment was appropriate. This did not come easily. There was a tendency,
 especially at the lower level of the government, to invest more in "higher
 technologies". The outcomes of the Project proved that putting in place right
 policies, changing the way the institutions function, strengthening monitoring
 and evaluation and increasing accountability, transferring knowledge and
 changing outdated practices with modem evidence-based ones can go a long
 way in terms of making a real and sustainable impact. This is not to say that
 investing in health system infrastructure is necessarily bad thing. It is often
 needed and shall be supported. What is important though is to keep the
 balance right. Technology and infrastructure are means for achieving
 outcomes but only when policies and institutional and human resource
 capacities are adequate, there is sufficient financing for maintenance costs,
 and the access to such technologies is unimpaired.

 Modern donor architecture' requires innovative solutions. flexibility and
 creativity. The world is different from what it was a decade ago. The
   international donor architecture for health has changed. The World Bank is no
   longer the biggest and most influential funding agency, nor does it possess the
   unique technical knowledge. In order to remain relevant and useful for the
   client the Bank shall seek mechanisms to be more flexible and offer new kind
   of fmancial instruments that will be attractive to a very diverse group of
   clients. Proliferation of grant funding for health through bilaterals, the Global
   Fund, the Gates Foundation, and a number of philanthropic organizations, has
. created competition with the International Development Association (IDA) .
   financing and even more so for the IBRD financing. There is a greater appetite
   among the WB' s traditional clients for these new sources of funding, which
  are mostly grant or interest free loans, especially when such funds come with
  less 'strings' attached to them. These funding agencies also tend to have a
  shorter project preparation period and they exercise much more relaxed
  fiduciary oversight during implementation. The China TB Control Project
  would not have happened without blended financing with DFID grant that
  significantly softened the IBRD loan and made it more attractive to the client.
  The Bank needs to explore more options for similar type of blended fmancing
  when possible to reduce the cost of borrowing to the countries and enable
  them to benefit from the technical knowledge and competencies the Bank can
  offer together with cheaper and greater amount of financing made available
  through blending. However it has to be noted as well that such an approach
  should be exercised selectively taking into account the capacity of the country
  to raise its own resources for investment in human development. Availability
  of low cost or free external financing may provide a perverse incentive to
  some countries not to invest 'as much internal' resources in human
  development as they can afford, which raises questions about financial
  sustainability of development outcomes in a given country, and fairness of
 disn:ibution of development aid among the countries.



                                  43
Learning from previous lessons is important. The success of the China TB
Control Project is largely attributable to the ability of the Bank and the client.
to learn from the successes and challenges of the previous operations.
Thorough analysis of the previous operations was conducted prior to the
commencement of the project preparation. The past lessons were scrutinized
and a consensus was reached about what went wrong and what was effective .
in earlier attempts to curb the TB epidemic. Sometimes the exercise of
"learning from past experiences" .is done superficially for the sake of
completing a relevant section in the project documents. In the case of the
current Project~ the design very thoroughly reflected the past lessons. In this
regard the Project really sets a good example that shall be followed and
emulated.

Simple design and parsimonious development objectives and result indicators
are better that the opposite. The China TB Control Project was the world's
largest TB control project ever. Yet it had very simple and straightforward
design. The log-frame was rather linear and there were short and direct links
between the inputs/actions that the Project supported and the outcomes. The
outcome indicators were parsimonious and concrete. They were measureable,
sensible and in line with the 'NTP and the international DOTS targets. There
was a debate about the scope of the Project as some stakeholders favored a
larger scope addressing the whole range of issues in TB control. However the
idea of supporting the basic DOTS strategy prevailed. This is a good lesson
for the HNP operations in the Bank. Often clients as well as the WB task
teams are carried away with the possibilities that emerge from conjectural
complex causal-effect relationships between various inputs/actions and
outcomes. As a result log-frames become sophisticated, multi-linear and too
the ambitious for implementing in a realm of limited capacitie~, unpredictable
political influences, and other eventualities. Monitoring and evaluation
frameworks also often tend to be too ambitious relying on extensive primary
data collection of statistics which have not been traditionally generated in the'
country. Such projects may look grandiose on the paper but they are often
doomed to implemenu.tion. failures. Stepwise approach, realism, going for a
low 'hanging fruits', prioritizing based on the need and the ability to make a
realistic change should guide the project design, as opposed to the academic
sophistication and complex conceptual thinking of the project designer.

 Strong coordination and harmonization among donors can augment the
 effects and such harmonization effOrts shall be coordinated by the government.
.As mentioned above the donor architecture in health is becoming more
 complex. So is the nature of the health sector challenges, especially in the
 middle-income countries. Coordinating donor assistance effectively was one
 of the key features of the China TB Control Project. In this regard the
 performance of MoH and the FLO were outstanding. It sets an excellent
 example of how various donor activities can be seamlessly integrated for
 greater complementarity and synergy. Why was it possible to achieve such



                                44
           go~d donor coordination in this Project? ;The ICR team thinks. that the main
           reason was that MoH had a well elaborated and budgeted National TB Control
           Program which served asa matrix around which various donor activities were
           organized. This prevented duplication, made it easy to assign costs to different
           components and coordinate, sequence of activities. The lesson learned for
           future operations is that donor coordination will be. difficult to achieve unless
           there is a common costed plan/program which is owned by the country and
           which can be easily divided for implementation support among various
           partners. If projects are random and' driven. by the creativity and program
           illterest of various donors their coordination will be difficult and ineffective.

           Local ownership and participation is an important factor o(success. The
           China TB Control Project benefited from excellent cadre of competent and
           experienced local experts. The project design was fully owned by the MoH.
           The same experts who participated in the project design were also served as
           technical advisory panel during implementation. The MoH was in a driver's
           seat during the project design which is a lesson that shall be followed, to the.
           extent possible, in other operations.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by BorrowerlImplementing Age~cieslPartners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies.

The Borrower's assessment of the Project is described in detail in Annex 7. In this section,
the ICR Team would, like to summarize some of the key comments made by the
Borrower, the implementing agency and local experts during the interviews, Which have
not transpired in the official assessment presented in Annex 7.

           The Borrower expressed appreciation of the fruitful and effective cooperation
           with the Bank. It was noted that the Bank is a trustworthy partner and it
           provides high quality technical advice and guidaD;ce.

           The Borrower felt that the Bank exhibited a reasonable degree of flexibility
           during the implementation, which allowed the.MoH tofully.utilize the Project
           proceeds.

           Supervision mISSIons and the joint monitoring. mISSIon provided useful
           guidance and 'needed political leverage. to the implementing agency at the
           central and locallevels~

           The Bank demonstrated innovative thinking and approach to the Project
           financing, which allowed a low interest rate an4 made the Project appealing to
           proVinces.

           The Borrower considers the balance between the investment in hardware (i.e.
           equipment, infrastructure, machinery, etc.) and soft components (policies,
           skills transfer, training, institutional development) as satisfactory. Among the


                                            45
           health care .practitioners and TB expeI1$ there was more bias towards
           hardware. They preferred more investment going into equipment to which the
           'B~ did not fully ~gree.                  .

            Provinces expressed some dissatisfaction with the Project's financial
            management' mechanism, according to which the Project reimbursed
            expenditures rather than disburse funds through advance payments. It was
            reported that sometimes this created a cash flow problem for provinces.

             The DOTS strategy was considered as a relevant strategy for China. However
             certain local experts think that in the Chinese context the DOTS strategy
             requires some modifications to account for the local specificities~ Many local
          .' experts" ate not in full agreement with international experts about
             questionability of such procedures as liver function test. and. prescription of
             liverptotection drugs. The Aide Memoits .often criticized these practices but
             local experts defend their relevance, even though there is not much scientific
             eVidence'in their. favor.                      . .

          '. The Borrower praised the rigor that the    aank   exercises during the project
             preparation, .however it was noted as well that the .process is still rather long
             and cumbersome' for' the. client. Simplifications would be much welcomed.
             Considering tha.t· there are many donors who ar.ecoming up with substantial
             amourit of funding, most of which· are grants, it is becoming. less and less
             attractive for provinces to borrow the IBRD loans and go through lengthy and
             demanding procedures for this.

,:           The Borrower felt that the Bank has to strike a better balance between being
            .flexible and allowing quick disbursement of its loans/credits, on one hand, and
          . being too much averse to fiduciary risks, on the other hand. The Borrower
           . thi{1ksthat~urrently the balance is skewed towards the latter.

     <-    Having the national-level component together with the prOvincial-level
           component was an important success factor. It allowed to link the Project with
           the overall NTP and each province benefited from a better institutional
           capacity and streamlined policies developed in the center.

           The prepanttion of PIP was .lengthy: there were 14 versions before the final.
           TheBorrow~r thought that process of many successive revisions of PIP was
           too. labor intensive.' Preparation of province-specific PIPs at the preparation
           stage ofthePr6ject was considered unnecessary. The Borrower thought that it
           consumed a lot of time given that the provinces did not have prior experience
           in a similar exercise.

           There were too ~any TILs during the Project life.




                                             46
 (b) Cofinanciers

The ICR team interviewed the main co-financier of the Project - the DFID. It was
acknowledged that the DFID and the WB blended financing arrangement was a
pioneering one, which not only allowed the Project to happen, but it also gave a
precedent to other projects in other sectors with a similar financing arrangement. The
DFID appreciated the cooperation with the Bank and constructive partnership throughout
the project implementation.

The DFID considered the MoH's leadership a key success factor. If not for the-political
commitment of the MoH, the Project development results would be hard to achieve.

The DFID felt that more could have been done to make the pro-poor nature and design of
the Project more pronounced during the implementation phase, for example, through
conducting social assessment studies .in all provinces              and setting up socio-
demographically disaggregated database of the Project performance indicators from the
beginning of the Project. It was felt, that the Project result indicators were more focused
on WHO's global DOTS targets and less on equity dimension of the Project impact.
However the design that emerged from the preparation was still acceptable to the DFID
as it reflected the consensus among the development partners. Each of them had to
compromise a little bit for the interest of partnership. 7

With additional grant, The DFID played an important role in providing technical
assistance throughout the entire implementation period. The World Bank did not have
sufficient budget to ensure strong technical supervision. The DFID provided major
contribution in financing technical assistance in the area of health promotion,
development of the Health Education toolkit, operational research, social assessment and
a number of supplementary initiatives on poverty related issues. The Bank budget was
used mostly for the supervision of the Project management and fiduciary compliance.
The DFID was funding; through a separate grant, technical experts which participated in
the Bank's supervision missions and the joint monitoring missions. For such a large scale
projects, the Bank should allow more budget for supervision of both technical and
fiduciary aspects of project implementation.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The ICR team conducted interviews with some of the key stakeholders: the WHO, the
Global Fund, the Gates Foundation, the national TB expert panel, and the KNCV. All


7 The ICR team considers that the project design did have an adequate pro-poor focus. Marginal returns on
too many additional pro-poor activities could have been. sman on the expense of distracting attention from
the core institutional and policy issues that needed to be addressed in order to lift the TB control system
from the ground and reach the TB control targets. Social assessment studies proved useful but also
expensive. Therefore provinces were reluctant to replicate the studies as they felt that the results from the
four provinces that implemented the social assessment were fully applicable and relevant to the ~est.




                                                    47
partners are very positive about the Project. It is a common belief that the Project played
an important role as a catalyst, which enabled harmonization and combination of all TB
related efforts under one nationally led program. Besides the World Bank project, the
Global Fund supported projects also played a significant role. It is almost impossible to
attribute outcomes to specific projects. It is felt by the development partners that there is
no need to attempt such an exercise of attribution. What is important is that multiple
efforts, small or big, all augmented each other under effective leadership of the MoH.
The WB and DFID were the first major funding partners when the Project was designed.
This created a momentum, political commitment and financial resource on which all
subsequent activities were anchored.

The development partners rate very highly the performance of the MoH and its
implementing agency - FLO. The performance of the World Bank is also highly rated
and appreciated. It was not easy to manage so many different interests and different
partners, sometimes compromises had to be made, self-interests curbed, but the overall
collective outcome seemed to gain from such cooperation.

The partners unanimously believe that TB Control Projects, the largest TB control project
in the World, was a success story. They also believe that a lot of work still remains to be
done in order to tackle TB epidemic in China and address the issues ofMDR-TB, quality
of care and diagnosis, improving adequacy of human resources, targeting the poor more
intensively, incorporating TB care into broader health system reforms, etc. Some
development partners felt that the Project could have focused on some of these issues
after it achieved the DOTS global targets. Nevertheless, it is clear that China shall not
cease its political commitment and funding of TB care, and it shall continue the wen
established tradition of cooperation and partnership in this matter with its trusted
development partners.




                                            48
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

fa) Project Cost by Component ~ in USD MiUion equivalent)
.... ~
         '.



         .,
            , .
               ,.'

              "'~.':':.'.,.'


 1. STRENGTHENED
                     ......        '.


                     'r~mpoDents.::·,;
                                 ,'"
                                        ,'.'


                                        '.
                                               ....   ~~~~~~~~~~~:=,t:,:   .   Periintapof
                                                                           ':,::A'.~ar

NATIONAL TB POLICIES AND                                   4.49     1.4            31.18%
PROGRAMMING
 2. IMPROVED ACCESS TO
AND QUALITY OF, TB
                                                         196.76   184.3            93.67%
SERVICES AT PROVINCE
LEVEL
 3. STRENGTHENED
INSTITUTIONS AND
FINANCING TO DELIVER TB                                   40.04    26.59            66.41%
PROGRAM AT PROVINCE
L<EVEL

                         Total Baseline Cost             241.29   212.29            87.98%
[Physical CQII,tingencies
                                                           0.00     0.00
!price Contingencies
                                                           0.00     0.00
             Total Project Costs                         241.29   212.29            87.98%
Front-end fee PPF                                          0.00
~ront-end fee mRD                                          1.04     0.67            64.42%
     Total Financing Required                            242.33   212.96            87.88%




 Borrower
 International Bank for Re(xm~;tructiclnlB,leflided




                                                            49
                                               . Actual outputsl outcomes atICR                                  Commentsl Additional Information


(i) Institutional   Establish a central        A Project Coordination Team was set up at the central             The Project Coordination Team consisted of
Development         project coordination       level and the first meeting was held in July 2002. The            leaders from National Population and Family
                    group                      Chinese Government contributed RMB 203 million to                 Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance,
                                               central level activities to bolster institutional strengthening   Ministry of Health, international partners and
                                               to support the implementation of the TB Control Project.          other relevant organizations. A central
                                               To assist with project implementation, a four-tier vertical       leadership group was also established
                                               management system covering the central, provincial,               including members of the coordination team,
                                               prefecture and country level was established which                the department of disease control and
                                               promoted and enabled the exchange of ideas, and                   numerous departments of the Ministry of
                                               facilitated communication and management of the project           Health, State Development and Planning
                                               implementation.                                                   Commission, Ministry of Finance and the
                                                                                                                 Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic
                                                                                                                 Cooperation.

                    Establish and strengthen   The National Center for TB Control and Prevention                 NCTB is responsible for providing technical
                    the National Center for    (NCTB) was set up in January 2002. To strengthen the              guidance, training provincial staff, managing
                    TB Control and             quality of TB care, resources were allocated for setting up       TB awareness campaigns, the Information,
                    Prevention                 a national reference laboratory (NRL). The NRL has                Education and Communication Plan and
                                               improved the overall quality control standards and the            operational research.
                                               system for smear microscopy, including microbe isolation
                                               and culture, and drug sensitivity testing. The NRL has also
                                               set up a bacterial strain bank network for mycobacterium
                                               TB and non TB mycobacteria. New effective mechanisms
                                               for bank network management were also introduced. The
                                               lab is responsible for national identification of
                                               nontuberculous mycobacteria and implementation of other
                                               non-routine analysis, carrying out basic research on new
                                               methods and technology for TB diagnosis and assessment
                                               of




                                                                             50
Component         Planned outputs at        Actual outputsl outcomes' at ICR·                            Comments! Additional Information
                  Appraisal
                  Establish a TB expert     A TB Expert Advisory Committee was established soon          No comment.
                  advisory committee        after the initiation of the Project and was instrumental
                                            during the development of the Project Implementation
                                            Plan.
(ii) Policy and   Develop a detailed        A Project Implementation Plan was completed in 2001.         The development of provincial
Program           implementation plan for   This was soon followed by 16 provincial implementation       implementation plans was a first-time
Development       the National TB Control   plans to roll out DOTS in 2002.                              exercise for the provinces. This was therefore
                  Program (NTP)                                                                          a significant capacity building process.
                                                                                                                                                          ,


                                                                                                                                                          :
                   Review existing and      Revisions to existing NTP policy took place and resulted       No comment.
                  'develop new NTP          in the expansion of free treatment to smear-negative
                   policies                 patients. New policies that came into effect during the
                                            Project were: i) a transportation subsidy for poor patients,
                                            ii) county-level diagnosis of smear-negative patients, and
                                            iii) incentives for TB control practitioners for achieving set
                                            targets
                  Develop the               In the early stages of the Project, the Ministry of Health      The Resource Database includes print media
                  Information, Education    organized domestic and international experts to contribute     materials, resources for radio segments, 1V
                  and Communication         to the development of "China's TB Health Promotion             drama, cross talk etc. The Central
                  (lEC) Plan                Strategy". In 2004 the NPf-Health Promotion Manual was Coordination Team also developed print
                                            introduced. The Central Coordination Team created a            media resources specifically tailored to the
                                            resource database (an 8-disc"TB Prevention and Control         illiterate population. lEC activities ranged
                                            Health Education Resource Database") which helped guide from training at schools and prisons to
                                            various lEC activities throughout the implementation of        community awareness activities and health
                                            the Project. This resource database was distributed in 2005 promotion toolkits.
                                            along with training sessions on the use of the Database.




                                                                        51
Component      Planned outputs at       Actual outputsl outcomes at ICR                              Commentsl Additional Information
               Appraisal
               Coordinate and           55 project proposals were originally reviewed with 45      While the outcomes of these studies could
               implement program-       being approved and 42 carried out. The total investment in not be fully incorpOrated into the project
               oriented operations      operation research has been RMB 9.53million                design due to insufficient time available, it
               research activities      (US$1.4million). As there is little domestic expertise in  was an important capacity building exercise
                                        conducting operation research, two training workshops      that enhanced domestic operation research
                                        facilitated by KNCV were held to enhance the proposals     capability. The 42 research topics covered 10
                                        and bolster the capacity for operational research in the   different thematic groups including TBIHIV
                                        country. A National TB Operational Research                co-infection, patient detection, patient
                                        Management Committee and Ethics Committee were also        management, smear-negative pulmonary TB
                                        established during this time.                              diagnosis, drug resistance, social assessment,
                                                                                                   special population groups, PPM-DOTS and
                                                                                                   infection control.
(iii)          Develop and implement    A planning tool was developed for estimating funding       The implementation of the planning tool was
Coordination   evidence-based program   needs at province level and below. An Electronic TB        limited by chronic shortages in funding and a
and            management methods       Management Information System was fully implemented        limited ability to predict when funds would
Management                              which resulted in the efficient management and analysis of become available.
                                        information collected on TB service delivery and patient
                                        progress.
                                        Four interconnected registries were set up: (a) suspect
                                        cases (consulted patients), (b) referred cases (patient's
                                        subjected to diagnostic procedures), (c) confirmed cases,
                                        and (d) treated cases.




                                                                    52
Component   Planned outputs at                       Actual outputs! outcomes at ICR                                Commentsl Additional Information
            Appraisal
            Improve provincial                       In 2002, TB facilities at provincial, prefecture and county    No comment.
            capacity to implement                    levels formulated a TB prevention and control plan in line
            projects in line with                    with the NTP. These plans moved into implementation
            NTP                                      phase in 2003. From 2002 to 2009, the central unit
                                                     organized 11 study tours and short-term trainings abroad
                                                     for III person times in the field of sociology, TB
                                                     management, and prevention and control techniques.
                                                     During the initial phase of the Project, several centralized
                                                     trainings were focused on project procurement and
                                                     financial management to strengthen and standardize
                                                     project management and implementation. The trainings
                                                     thereafter were then tailored to the needs of the provincial
                                                     staff as challenges arose.
            Procure and distribute                   At the end of2009, the Project had procured                    According to the monitoring results, storage,
            quality drugs and                        US$42.5miHion worth of goods including har~ware and            management and turnover of HRZE, HR and
            equipment                                consumables. Acquisition of medical and office                 anti-TB loose pills have been kept in good
                                                     equipment, promotional and educational materials and           condition with overall expiration/damage rate
                                                     vehicles amounted to 88.95% ofthe total amount spent.          lower than 0.5%. The expiration/damage rate
                                                     Procurement at the central level accounted for 62.56% of       ofI-IRE is 1.13% but the storage, turnover
                                                     overall procurement, the remaining 37.44% occurring at         and management of streptomycin, injection
                                                     the provincial level. The Project has provided                 water and syringes, and X-ray film was
                                                     approximately 639.4million sheets ofHRZE (anti TB              considered not satisfactory with an overall
                                                     drug) tablets, l03million sheets ofHR (anti TB drug)           expiration/damage rate between 2-3%.
                                                     tablets, 29.5million sheets ofHRE (anti-TB drug) tablets       There were long delays in the initial
                                                     and 9.4miHion vials of streptomycin, 9.2miUion vials of        procurement of equipment.
                                                     injection water and 8.3million syringes. Anti-TB loose
--                               .................
                                                     piUs were also provided .




                                                                                  53
                    Develop and implement      100% DOTS coverage at county level was achieved         The social assessment activities have provided the
                    programs to deliver        in 2005 and maintained through the duration of the      information and evidence for the implementation
                    DOTS to hard-to-reach      Project.                                                of the National TB Control Plan, as well as
                    populations                From 2003 to 2004, with the support ofDFID,             scientific evidence and theoretical basis for
                                               social assessments were carried out in Inner            formulating mid-term adjustments and allocation
                                               Mongolia, Fujian, Henan, Liaoning and Xinjiang.         of funds for different components.
                                               These assessments focused on the barriers for poor      Human resources capacity to implement the
                                               people to access basic health services, as well as      program was a substantial constraint for many
                                               progress and constraints in TB control in China's       counties.
                                               poor, remote and minority-concentrated areas.           The mid-term review in 2006 highlighted the
                                               A transportation subsidy for poor patients for travel   continued need to improve the effectiveness of the
                                               between their homes and the clinics was provided        Project in addressing issues regarding the provision
                                               through the Project in some provinces.                  of high quality TB control services for the poor and
                                                                                                       vulnerable populations. This was followed with an
                                                                                                       adjustment of the patient information collected
                                                                                                       which now includes gender, age, ethnicity and
                                                                                                       occupation.

                    Pilot programs to          Supervision missions in the latter stage of the         No comment.
                    prevent and treat HIV-     Project reported good collaboration betweenHIV
                    associated TB              and TB programs in pilot counties of Guangxi and
                                               Henan however it was also noted that this
                                               collaboration did not extend beyond the pilot
                                               counties.
                    Pilot free treatment of    The free treatment of smear-negative infectious·        Extending free treatment to smear-negative
                    smear-negative TB          pulmonary TB patients was piloted and became a          patients was a substantial contribution to the pro-
                    patients                   nationally-implemented policy after the mid-term        poor focus of the Project.


(i) Institutional   Establish leading groups   Leadership teams were set up at provincial,             The makeup of the leadership teams were diverse
Strengthening       and project offices at     prefecture and county levels. Among the 1683            calling representatives from family planning,
                    provincial and lower       implementing units, 92.17% have formulated and          finance, health, TV, radio administration and other
                    levels                     distributed their own local plans for TB control and    departments laying a platform for cross-sectoral
                                               prevention and 91.63% have included TB                  contributions and support.
                                               prevention and control funds into their fiscal




                                                                           56
Strengthen TB Control       The total govemtnent contribution exceeded the            The investments made in improving infrastructure
institutions with           expectations ofthe original project agreement. The        and equipment for TB Control services has
sufficient financial        total government contribution was RMB 440                 anecdotally improved provider and patient
resources, infrastructure   million higher than initially intended (RMB               satisfaction.
and equipment to carry      1.03billion). RMB 23.7million cameas provincial
out NTP activities          funding, RMB 12million came from the prefecture-          However there are some concerns about the
                            level and RMB 24.5million from county level               equipment maintenance as the maintenance costs
                            funds.                                                    and spare parts were not included in procurement
                            In 2002, among the 1512 project counties, 1307 had        contracts. Also there have been some reports that
                            TB facilities. By 2006, the number ofTB facilities        certain equipments are underused.
                            reached the required number (1447) with new
                            facilities being built and existing facilities
                            improved. The Project procuredJ514 computers,
                            1743 microscopes, 1053 X~ray machines, 907 fax
                            machines, 855 photocopiers, 509 cars, 294 cargO-
                            buses, and 384 multi~media projectors. Additional
                            hardware was also purchased to support health
                            education activities.
                            Prior to the Project, only 10 of 16 provincial
                            reference labs could carry out sputum microscopy
                            tests, culture of mycobacterium tuberculosis,
                            sensitivity test of TB drugs and strain identification.
                            By 2009, all 16 labs could carry out those
                            functions. The proportion of city~levellabs that can
                            now do sputum culture has increased during that
                            same period from 18% to 21 %. In 2002, 64% of
                            county~level TB facilities could carry out sputum
                            smear and microscopy tests, and only 2.9% could
                            carry out culture of mycobacterium tuberculosis.
                            By 2009, those numbers have increased to 98.1 %
                            and 6.92% respectively.




                                                         57
                 Improve human resource     During the period of the Project, over 80,000         Despite these improvements, insufficient human
                 capacity                   training sessions were held at provincial, prefecture resources were consistently quoted as a key
                                            and county level in project management, financial     challenge to implementation of the TB Control
                                            management and technical skills. In project           Project.
                                            provinces, TB Control staff increaSed by 25.31% by
                                            2008 from levels prior to the Project commencing.
                                            This increase was seen most at the county leveL
                                            There was also an overall increase in TB control
                                            personnel with a college diploma or above.
(ii) Expanded    Develop plans for long-    During the final stages of project implementation,    Sustainability is still regarded as a substantial risk
Financing for    term sustainability ofTS each province developed and submitted a TB              for this Project.
Sustainable TB   Control in each province Control Sustainability Plan to the Ministry of          After the end of the Project a serious funding gap
Control                                     Health.                                               will emerge. It is estimated that approximately
                                            One of the most important aspects of the project      RMB 634.87million will be needed to carry out the
                                            design was the substantial financial participation of basic DOTS program. The central Government
                                            the counterpart with gradual reduction of the loan's intends to cover RMB 270million (42% of the total
                                             share and increase of the counterpart share. The     cost of the DOTS program). The local
                                             loan amount including the DFID Grant constituted     Governments shan allocate RMB 330miHion (53%
                                            43% of the total funding. The counterpart funding     ofthe total cost afthe DOTS program). The rest
                                            was 51 %, and the JICA grant - 6%. Such a             will be covered from the Global Fund grants. So
                                             financing architecture contributed to financial      far the local governments have committed only
                                             sustainability of the Project. The counterpart       RMB 77.83miHion (23% of the required). This
                                             financing was shared among the province,              leaves a shortfall of about RMB 256.46million
                                             municipality and county levels. The poor counties    (40.4% of the total required budget). These cost
                                             were supported by provinces.                         estimates include only basic DOTS strategy. If one
                                                                                                  counts in resources required for tackling MDR-TB
                                                                                                  (40,000 new cases per year at RMB 50,000 per
                                                                                                   case), an additional RMB 2biHion will be needed.
                                                                                                   It is not clear yet, how these resources will be
                                                                                                   mobilized. The ICR team received verbal
                                                                                                   assurance from the MoH and the provincial health
                                                                                                   authorities that aU the efforts will be made to raise
                                                                                                   necessary resources, but this goal still remains
                                          I                                            _.-
                                                                                 ---------_ ..
                                                                                                   under risk.




                                                                         58
Implement Plans to           Funds from the central budget and grant funding                  No comment.
assist poorer areas to       supplied by the Government of Japan were used
participate in the           primarily to support western provinces and other
program, including           economically disadvantaged provinces. At the
facilitating government      county level, counterpart funding was provided for
grants to poorer areas       poverty counties by the provincial or county
                             budget.
                             At the mid-term review, three additional activities
                             were added: the transportation subsidy (23 Yuan
                             per patient), work subsidy to experts working in the
                             diagnosis groups for county sputum smear-negative
                             TB patients (109 Yuan per person) and a subsidy to
                             TB prevention and control staff having finished
                             their tasks ahead oftime (337 to 735 Yuan per
                             person depending on province). Twelve provinces
                             carried out all three activities and two provinces
                             carried out none of the additional activities due to
                          . . . .. I:,!~~_qf_t't!1!<!i_I!g._____~_________ . _________   ..   ---.-~-




                                                            59
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The ICR team did not conduct an economic and financial analysis. The summary of
the Borrower's economic analysis is summarized in Section 3.3. ofthe ICR Report.




                                     60
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                     ",               Respons'bilityl
              Names                       Title               Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Jagadesh Upadhyay        lLead Operations Specialist         EASHD   Task Team Leader
Enis Baris                Senior Public Health Specialist    EASHD   Preparation team
Darren Dorkin            Operations Analyst                  EASHD   Preparation team
RekhaMenon               ~conomist                           EASHD   Preparation team
Shiyong Wang             !Health Specialist                  EASHD   Preparation team
                         Senior Financial Management
Chau-Ching Shen                                              EACCF Preparation team
                         Specialist
Wang Haiyan              Disbursement Specialist             EACCF    Preparation team
Li Xiaoping              Procurement Specialist              EACCF    Preparation team
 Joan Morgan-Nicholson   IAdministrative Support             EASHD    Preparation team
 Carlos Escudero         Chief Counsel                       LEGES   'Preparation team
Margaret Png             Senior Counsel                      LEGES    Preparation team
lNina Eej ima            Counsel                             LEGES    Preparation team
Akihiko Nishio           China Country Program Coordinator   EACCF   Preparation team -
                                                                                    .-
Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun     Chief, LOAm                         LOAm    Preparation team
                         [Lead Financial Management
Simon Bradbury                                               EACCF Preparation team
                         Specialist
Jose Molina              Senior Financial Officer            EACCF Preparation team

Supervisioll/ICR
Xiaowei Guo               Senior Procurement Specialist      EAPPR Supervision Team
Jian Hou                 Program Assistant                   EACCF Supervision Team
                          Sr Financial Management
Haixia Li                                                    EAPFM Supervision Team
                          Specialist
 L. Richard Meyers        TTL, Lead Operations Specialist,   EASHD   Supervision Team
John Langenbrunner       TTL, Lead Health Economist          EASHD   Supervision Team
 Sabrina Gail Terry      Program Assistant                   EASHD   iSupervision Team
 Shiyong Wang            ISr Health Spec.                    EASHH   !Supervision Team
 Lansong Zhang           Operations Analyst                  EASHS   Supervision Team
 ShuoZhang               Health Specialist                   EASHH   Supervision Team
Bakhuti Shengelia        Senior Health Specialist            EASHH   !ICR Team Leader
Huihui Wang              Young Professional                  EASHH   ICR Team
AmberWiUink              Junior Professional Associate       EASHH   ICR Team




                                        61
(I» Staff Time and Cost
                                   ...
                                          Staff Time and Cosl(Bank BudgetOnly)           I
Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No.·otstaff weeks
                                                             usn Thousands (including!
                                                             travel and consultant costs)1
Lending                                                                                  !
    FYOl                                         41.4                     221.26
    FY02                                         57.9                     192.58
    FY03                                          0.9                       3.84
    FY04                                          0.5                       2.11         I
                                                                                         i

    FY05                                                                    0.00         [

    FY06                                                                    0.00
    FY07
    FY08
                                                                            0.00
                                                                            0.00
                                                                                       -J
                                                                                         \
                       Total:                                             419.78
                                                                                         I
~tlpervisionIIC_R _ _ __
               _
I   FYOI
                                                -.---,-~-
                                                               ·-·-·-----------1I
                                                                        0.00
!   FY02                                          3.7                      29.63
    FY03                                         18.3                      67.22
    FY04                                         18.7                      84.65
    FYOS                                         14.6                      49.28
    FY06                                         18.7                      83.86
    FY07                                         14.8                      75.16


r    Y08
    FY09
    FYlO
                                                 15.8

                                                 24.8
                                                 38.7
                                                              I
                                                              j.-
                                                              !
                                                                           76.03

                                                                          103.64
                                                                          169.41
                          Total:                                          73tU~8
                                                                                      ~




                                           62
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Beneficiary survey was not conducted




                                   63
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The ICR team conducted a one day workshop with the Project implementers -
Provinces and the National Center for TB Control. The aim of the workshop was to
seek feedback from the Project Provinces about. the benefits of the Project, overall
progress, implementation challenges, and satisfaction with cooperation with the
Worid Bank, and satisfaction with the government's own performance. The workshop
hosted representatives of aU 16 provinces.

The main conclusions of the workshop were the foHowing:

          - All provinces thought that the Project made significant contribution in
          tackling TB epidemic in China. They emphasized the fact that without the
          Project China would not have achieved the Global DOTS targets.

           - The provinces em}Jhasized and praised the fact that the Project was fully
           integrated with the National TB Control Program developed by the
           government of China. There was a strong ownership of the Project and
           commitment to implement it.

           - The provinces found it challenging to meet the Project requirements with
           regard to counterpart funding. However with the support of the central
           government to poor provinces the funding requirements were mostly
           achieved.

          - The provinces wished there were more flexibility in the implementation
          arrangements under the WE-supported projects. They were not satisfied
          with the financial management arrangements whereby provinces would .
          receive funding after completing the activities. They preferred greater
          advance payment.

          - Supervision missions by the Bank or jointly with other partners were
          considered· very useful in guiding the provinces and addressing the
          bottlenecks in the implementation.

          - Provinces felt that the WB should continue cooperation with China on
          TB control and the Government should consider continuation of the
          Project to address the challenges in TB control that were beyond the scope
          of the completed project.




                                       64
Annex 7. Summary of Borroweris IeR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

WBIDFID China TB Control Project was launched in March 2002 with a total
investment of 242m USD. The project covers 1450 poor counties (districts) in 188
prefecture-Ievel.cities of.16 mid and west provinces with a total catchment population
of 668m. The provinces are: Hebei, Inner Mongolia, Liaoning, Jilin Fujian, Jiangxi,
Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Guangxi, Chongqing, Guizhou, Yunnan, Shannxi, Gansu and
Xinjiang. Co-financed by the Chinese government, DFID and the World Bank with a
new financing model, the project so far is the largest global TB control endeavor with
full coverage and implementation of DOTS in all project areas.

In line with the project log frame, the project organized such activities as the
formulat~on, implementation and supervision of national TB control policies, scaling
up strategies for higher case detection and cure rate based on DOTS, and
strengthening service and financing capacity of TB institutions. After 8 years of
implementation, the project delivered expected output in all components and fulfilled
its designed objectives. Meanwhile, it has identified a unique financing model, news
ways for policy making and TB control and management, thus making great
contribution to TB control efforts in China. The highlights of the project are as
follows:

1. The fulfillment of project objectives ahead of the schedule contributes a lot to
    the control of tuberculosis epidemic in China and the world as a whole.
The project delivered its expected goals of 95% DOTS coverage, 70% case detection
rate and 85% cure rate ahead of the schedule. By the end of 2008, in all counties of
the 16 project provinces, the project has realized 100% DOTS coverage, 77% case
detection rate and 90% cure rate. Timely detection, effective treatment and
management of TB cases paved the way for reduction in infection sources and case
number. What's more, the delivery of project objectives before the original schedule
demonstrates robust effect of DOTS, providing evidence -base for other countries and
regions for their implementation ofthis strategy.

2. The project identified a unique financing model with diversified funding
    sources.
Health X project is the first Bank-funded health project which uses DFID grant to pay
interests of the Bank loan. This new finance model not only pointed out a new way
for China to use foreign loan _in the new context, but also provided precious
experience in financing for disease prevention and control for the rest of the world.
Due to this innovative financing model, in May of 2004, the project won the World
Bank President's Award which is of the highest honor.


                                       65
3. Project efforts triggered fiscal input from government at different levels and
   brought in foreign investment, guaranteeing steady inflow of funds for TB
   prevention and control.
During the project implementation, government at different levels in project province
provided 1.47~bn Yuan for TB prevention and control, among which 604m are
counterpart funding for the project. At the same time, as the project helped the
country acquire rich experience, thus facilitating the nation's efforts to apply for and
implement other international TB control projects. For one thing, the inflow of other
projects' fund has strengthened the work in priority areas for TB control; for another,
it made up for the funding shortfall of Health X project, further increased fiscal
support for China's TB prevention and control activities.

4. With special focus on poor regions, the project promoted balanced
   development of TB control activitit:s in China.
    Pro-poor has been a dominant theme from project design to its implementation.
Through introducing supportive policies in poor areas, implementing DOTS first in
these places and some other measures, the project has greatly improved the capacity
of mid and western areas especially poor ones for TB prevention and control,
therefore narrowing the gap between project areas and east part of the country,
promoting balanced development of TB prevention and control activities in China.
Meanwhile, the stable progress of TB control efforts in project provinces also spurred
the development of similar activities in non-project provinces, thus lifting the level of
TB prevention and control in China to a new height.

5. The project identified ways for the detection, treatment and management of
   TB cases which are of unique Chinese characteristics.
The project actively explored new ways for case detection, treatment and management
that fit into Chinese context. During project life cycle, referral of TB suspects to
designated medical facilities has become part of daily routine, playing an important
role in case detection. With the implementation of DOTS as the central piece, the
project generated great benefits for TB patients, improved the treatment and
management of TB cases by exploring different models such as direct supervision of
medication by family members, self-management for patients who are in the progress
consolidation stage of their treatment in remote mountainous regions and speciaUy-
tailored supervision and management model for migrant workers, therefore it paved
the way for effective control of sources of infection.




                                         66
6. A national system for TB prevention and control emerged, and TB facilities
   at different levels have stronger service capacity now.
Thanks to project funding support and implemented activities, all participating areas
have put in place a 3-tier TB prevention and control system at province, city and
county level with increased number of grass-roots health workers. Civil works,.
procurement and training funded by the project enhanced both the hardware and
software of TB facilities at different level, and they have witnessed obvious
improvement in their working conditions, and in their capacity for disease prevention
and treatinent. At the same time, service capacity for TB prevention and control at
county, township and village level has also been strengthened, and incentive policies
introduced unleashed the enthusiasm of grass-roots health workers.

7. The accessibility1equity of and satisfaction to TB service have seen noticeable
   improvement.
The project improved the accessibility of service to the poor and vulnerable .group
through the introduction of such policies as "free check-up, free treatment" and
"transportation subsidies for poor TB patients". Some project areas even went beyond
the free treatment policy of the project, i.e., after 6 months of free medication,
additional free medication for poor patients who need extended treatment. And other
places reduced or waived charges for some tests and treatment. These measures
guarantee the access of basic TB treatment to the poor the vulnerable group, increased
their satisfaction to the service, thus promoting social harmony.

8. Great socio-economic benefits generated
Project activities to improve the accessibility and equity ofTB prevention and control
not only made both patients and health workers more satisfied, but also generated
great economic benefits. The analysis on the health economics data collected showed
that from 2003 to 2008; compared with case detection rate without the
implementation of the project, project areas detected 1.644452m more active TB
cases, among which· 1.548714m have either been cured or finished ·treatment. It'.s
estimated that project regions managed to reduce 82,223 death cases. If the average
years of life lost (YLLs) per TB patient is 18 years, with a 5% annual discount rate,
the projected GDP loss would be .around RMB 26.8 bIn.

9. The Specially-tailored health education methods increased                    people's
   knowledge about TB prevention and treatment.
The project formulated health promotion strategies, and for the first time in the history
of TB prevention and control in China, sorted out and developed health promotion
resources for the prevention and control of the disease in a systematic manner, set up
a Database for Health Education on TB prevention and control which has undergone

                                         67
continuous improvement throughout the process of project implementation. In
addition, supported by the project, project areas have developed publicity materials
which. are customized to local culture and organized different forms of publicity
activities. They have identified effective education and publiCities methods, and
through. these tentative efforts, they have increased ·local residents' knowledge for
prevention and treatment of the disease. promoted standard case detection and
treatment.

10. The project experimented with and established an incentive mechanism for
    healthcare professionals.
The project has experimented with and established an incentive mechanism for
health~are professionals at different levels so as to increase the case detection and
cure rate, encourage township and village doctors to detect and have standard
management of patients. This has, to some extent, made healthcare professionals more
motivated to refer patients.

Experience acquired from project implementation
1. Government fulfillment of its commitment and its heightened awareness to the
     significance of the issue is the precondition for the delivery of project objectives.
     During project life cycle, government at different levels paid great attention to its
     activities and increased their fiscal input, which are beneficial for the development
     of TB dispensaries and their human resources, providing essential support for TB
     prevention and control.
2. The implementation and scaling up of DOTS is the key for the success of TB .
     prevention and control efforts in China. Focusing on the detection and treatment
   . of the sources of infection, the project implemented DOTS in a way that is aligned
     to local picture. Hence, it detected and treated a large number of TB patients.
3. The alignment of project activities with the objectives ofNTP is essential for the
     success of the project. NTP is the cornerstone for project activities, providing
     policy guarantee for the implementation of project activities, while those activities
     in tum translateNTP into reality.
4. Balanced development of TB control efforts in different areas across the nation
     facilitates project success. The project gave more support to the poor and
     underdeveloped areas, facilitated TB control and treatment activities in these
     places, therefore it promoted balanced development of TB service across the
    nation, and delivered expected results.
5. Coordinated planning and use of funds from domestic and foreign sources
    maximized efficiency, thus facilitating realization of project objectives.
    Coordinated fund raising and using model effectively avoided imbalanced
    allocation of capital, and funds from different sourCes have varied priorities,

                                         68
    which promote balanced growth of all project components.
6. Robust project management is the precondition for quality assurance of all TB
    control and control activities. Through the introduction of advanced management
    concept and approach, the project greatly strengthened the capacity of TB
    facilities at all levels for service delivery and project implementation, assuring
    qualityofTB service.
7. An improved system for TB prevention and control provides institutional
    guarantee for TB healthcare. The 3-tierTB prevention and control system at
    province, city and county level as wen as the preventative care system at township
    and village level offers institutional guarantee for the detection, diagnosis,
    treatment and standard management of TB cases. TB care professional and health
    workers who have worked in this area for a long time is the mainstay for the
    implementation of project activities, a key factor for the sustainable development
    of undergoing TB control activities.
8. Intensified health promotion activities and mobilization of all members of the
    society also contribute to project success. The varied forms of health promotion
    and education activities made both health workers, TB patients and general public
    know more about the disease, then they promoted case detection and its standard
    treatment.
9. A good coordination and cooperation mechanism is the necessary condition for
    the success of an international project. A cross-sectoral mechanism for
    communication and resolution of problems effectively guarantees the
    implementation of all project activities and smooth project operation.
10. Experiment with new finance models is another key factor for the delivery of
    project objectives. Besides project funds and increased government fiscal input,
    project areas tried to use NCMS fund to relieve the financial burden of TB
    patients, increase the accessibility of TB care, thus improving case detection and
    treatment compliance.

Problems Exist
1. During project implementation, as some places only provided part of the
   committed counter-part funding or the funds did not arrive on time, impeding the
   use of project funds and progress of project implementation. The fiscal shape and
   the awareness of relevant government agencies is the greatest constraint for the
   payment of counterpart funding.
2. As the project has many implementation agencies, the large number of applicants
   for fund disbursement made the process time-consuming. In addition, the
   procedure for fund disbursement is very complicated, the disbursed funds did not
   arrive on time was also one of the greatest issues for project implementation. Due
   to time and financial constraints, after mid-term adjustment, some project

                                       69
   activities were not implemented according to the plan.
3. During the implementation of DOTS, some patients still felt that some costs
   resulted from the diagnosis and. treatment of the disease still constitute a heavy
   financial burden on them, therefore we believe there should be more free service
   items.
4. The project has imbalanced fiscal input in demand-side and supply-side. The
   budget of the project only covers projected direct costs, without consideration to
   labor costs, this, to some extent, affected the .enthusiasm of health workers in
   some areas for their job.
5. Current treatment regimen could not satisfy the diverged needs of individual
   patients.

Recommendations for future national TB control efforts:
1. Government at different levels in project provinces should increase their fiscal
   input for TB prevention and control so as to address the funding shortfall after the.
   completion of the project. The end of the loan and counterpart funding and the
   repayment obligation put heavy burdens on project areas. Therefore, government
   at all levels should, while making good use of the TB funds earmarked by the
   higher-level government, continue to offer necessary counterpart funding in order
   to provide necessary. funds for TB prevention and control for all project areas
   especially those poor ones and sustain the undergoing TB control efforts.
2. While sustaining current funding level, the government should gradually reduce
   other costs for TB patients. It's advisable that the government offer transportation
   subsidies for. poor patients, and reduce or waive charges for liver function tests
   and alike. The government should also increase its fiscal input for prevention and
   treatment ofTB among the mobile population, and for control of drug resistant TB
   and co-infection ofTB/HIV.
3. The capacity of TB facilities and health workers needs to be shored up.
   Government at different levels need to create a favorable policy environment,
   increase their funding support and improve the compensation of grass-roots health
   workers so as to attract healthcare professionals. to grass-roots level and establish a
   competent cross-discipline professional team for TB prevention and control.
4. Free anti-TB drugs of proper dosage should be provided for patients according to
   their individual conditions, with the types of free drugs offered gradually
   increased.
5. New policies and strategies need to be developed to cope with new challenges for
   TB prevention and control.
6. More health education and promotion activities will help the general public,
   especially help the vulnerable group know more about TB prevention and Control.



                                         70
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Comments are summarized in Section 7(b).




                                      71
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   •   Social Assessment
   •   China Health V Project Implementation and Completion Report
   •   Project Concept Document
   •   Minutes of Appraisal Review Meeting
   •   Project Information Document
   •   Project Appraisal Document
   •   Project Implementation Plan
   •   Grant Agreement Tripartite Arrangements
   •   Amendments to the Loan Agreement
   •   Aide Memoires
   •   Implementation Supervision Reports
   •   Mid-term Review Mission Aide Memoire
   •   Mid-term Review Government Report
   •   Final Evaluation Report for WBIDFID China TB Control Project (Government
       Report)
   •   WBIDFID China TB Control Project Sustainability Plan (Government-Report)
   •   Internal Summary Report (Government of China)




                                      12
MAP SECTION
                               70·                                          BO·                            90·                               100·                                        110·                                                      120·                130·

                                                                                                                                                                  RUSSIAN
        50·
                                                                                                                                                             FEDERATION                                                                                                                             50·

                                                                                                                                     /    ........,'
                              KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                             .              .....,
                                                                                                                 ~.
                                                                                                                      \   •
                                                                                                                                     \
                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                              ""'''''._                 "'
                                                                                                                                                             "     _',",-.
                                                                                                                                                                 _,I         \.
                                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                                                                                      _'   .,,-•..J•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .r ....., .


                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                      .............                                  j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,    .-..,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (,-,.J "
         UZBE KISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .-,,,";'
              #~ ..           • """,
                                                                                                                                          MONGOLIA                                                                                       r't'"
     ,:.--::' 'J ',.                                                                                                                                                                                                         r'/'              d
    j\.,'I.
    ,            "                                                                              0URUMQI
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ."'.../
         '• ...,• .,- REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                               (
                                                                                                                                                                                                              )                           I)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40·
                                                                              XINJIANG                                                                                                                                                                                                          Seo 01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jopon




         This map was produced by
         the Map (>mign Unit o f The
         World Bank. The boundaries,
         colors, donominotions and
         any other information shown
         on this mop do not imply, on
         the part of The World Bank
         Group, any       iudgment en he                                                                         QINGHAI
         legal            of any territory,
                 status
         or any endorsement or
         't:,u~;;:r~~.n ceo f          sue h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F "




                                                                                      XIZANG
                                                    30·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30·


                                                   '"
                                                   ,y~'.r,
                                                     ~/......                             90·
                                                                                                   LHASA
                                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                          E    0    s t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C i1 ; n          0




        TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT
                                                                CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .OZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5       0 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·e~N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o,,J

                                                                Project Provinces
                                                    o           Province Capitals
                                                    ®           National Capital
                                                                Provi nce Boundaries
                                                                International Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                                            20·

~


~                                              o          200      400            600 K;lometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c;:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;;C

~                                              I           I            I             I                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
~                                              I          I         I             I       I
                     o 100 200 300 400 M;les
§LI________________________________________________________~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I'V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
