Dacunt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Retb No. 9056
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FIRST AND SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECTS
(CREDITS 660-ZR/1264-ZR)
OCTOBER 12, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only le the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Baek authoriation.



ABBREVIATIONS
AGCD           Agence Gouvernementale pour la Coop6ration et le Ddvelopment
(Governmental agency for cooperation and development)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
CFDT           Compagnie Fran,aise pour le D6veloppement des Fibres
Textiles
(French agency for development of textile fibers)
COTONNIERE     Soci6t6 Cotonnihre et Agricole du Kasai et Manidma
(French agency for cotton and agriculture)
COTON ZAIRE    La Cotonni&re du Zaire
(Zaire Cotton Campany)
CODENORD       Compagnie de Developpement Rural du Nord
(agency for rural development of the North)
CSCo           Caisse de Stabilization Cotonniere
(funds for cotton stability)
EDF            European Development Fund
ESTAGRICO      Societe Cotonniere et Agricole de l'Est
(cotton and agriculture company for the East)
FCD            Fonds de Convention pour le Developpement
(funds for development)
INERA          Institut National pour l'Etude et la Recherche Agronomique
(national institute for study and agronomical research)
OGEDEP         Office pour la Sestion de la Dette Publique
(management office for national debt)
ONAFITEX       Office National des Fibres Textiles
(national office for textile fibers)
ONATRA         Office National des Transports
(national office for transportation)
OR             Office des Routes
(highways office)
SOFIDE         Societe Financiere pour le Development
(financial company for development)
SOTEXCO        Societe Textile et Cottonniere
(cotton and textile company)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



KM OFmCIAL u= OLY
THE WORLD BANK
WasIgton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O1k. of OIe.ctGvGmw
October 12, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report:  ZAIRE - First *nd Second
Cotton Rehabilitation Projects (Credits 660-ZR/1264-ZR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Zaire First and Second Crtton Rehabilitation
Projects (Credit 660-ZR/1264-ZR)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
No audit of these projects has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This documnt hm a su   ditbuto and ay be tuad by rcipiesm tol In th pwan e
of their offcial dute Its hcontw may ot oewwin be diclko  without Woi Bank autheuadon.



FOR OFFICIL4 USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FIRST AND SECOND COTTON IWABILITATION PROJXCTS
(CREDITS 660-ZR/1264-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface ........ o..... o.o............ ....            to.....................  i
Basic Data Sheet (Credit 660-ZR)  ....               ....................   iii
Basic Data Sheet (Credit 1264-ZR)                                            v
Evaluation Summary .... ..... .... . ....*.*... *................. *  ........   vii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   SUMMARY ................................................           1
II.    INTRODUCTION ................. ...*.*...** ***** ***              3
III.   THE COTTON SUBSECTOR   ........ .  ......................... .      3
IV.   CREDIT 660-ZR ...................... to  ..o                       5
V1.   CREDIT 1264-ZR ........................................... ..    11
VI.    RATES OF RETURN   .......          ........................      19
VII.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT    ......    21
VIII.    BANK PERFORMANCE ..           .............................       23
IX.    CONCLUSIONS ........         ............................        24
ATTACHMENTS
1.    Comments: Caisse de Stabilization Cottonniere...                 27
2.    Comments: Directorate of Productive Sectors ....                 31
MAPS
1.    IBRD Map No. 11863R1
2.    IBRD Map No. 11732R
3.    IBRD Ma? No. 15029R
4.    IBRD Map No. 1503OR
5.    IBERD Map No. 15031R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FIRST AND SECOND COTTON RZHAIULITATION PROJECTS
(CREDITS 669-ZZR/1264-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First and
Second Cotton Rehabilitation Projects in Zaire, for which Credit
660-ZR in the rmount of US$8.8 million was approved on September 21,
1976. The credit was closed on December 31, 1983, and an undisbursed
amount of US$440,000 was cancelled. The last disbursement was made on
October 15, 1984.   Credit 1264-ZR in the amount of US$11.3 was
approved on June 15, 1982.  The credit was closed on June 30, 1987
with US$$6.2 million being cancelled.  Final disbursement took place
on January 20, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division
of the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department in the Africa Region.
It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal and President's
Reports, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Bowwower, and internal Bank memoranda.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) and sent to the Borrower for comments on March 6, 1990.
Comments received from the Borrower are reproduced as Attachments 1
and 2.



- iii -
BASIC DATA SE2EE¶
ZA&IRE -COTTON REH T3ITTATTON PROJECT (CREDTT f660-ZR)
KEY PROJECT DATA
----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
Appraisal   Actual          Actual as X Appraisal
------------------------------_--__-----------------------_------__-------
project costs (USS Mn)               14.6           14.0          96%
Credit amount  (US$ Mn)               8.0            8.0          100%
Disbursed                                7.4          93%
Cancelled                                0.6            7%
Date Physical Components
Completed                                           Dec 84
Board Appraisal                                     09/21/76
Agreement Date                                      12/28/76
Effective Date                                      05/30/77
Closing Date                                        06/30/84
ERR (%)                              23%            negative
Financial performance                               similar
Institutional performance                           similar
---------------------------------------------------------__----------------
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------__------------
FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
-------------------------------------------------------------------__------
-'raisal  (US$M)        1.8      3.5      5.9      8.0
.  ual  (US$M)             0       0.9      2.0      2.8      5.5      7.4
Actual/APR (%)            ...       26%    34%       35%      69%      93%
Date of final
disbursement                                                           06/84
Amount cancelled                                                       $621,000
----------------------------------------------------------__---------------
STAFF INPUTS
FY70 FY74 FY75 FY76 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84
----------------------------------__----------------------_-___________----
Preappraisal 6                 12
Appraisal                      20
Negotiations
Supervision                               1      10    4      21    8      20    6      16
Other
--------------------------------------------------------------------__----



- iv -
MISSION DATA
----------------------------------------------------------------__-------
asion         $        k NQl   Specn  iLSaff    Reloort  LIA=  Types
gazA mer*ons Xnprea  weeks   dat            of Pro
ented                          blems
Preappraisal
Appraisal     5/75  28    5      Aa AgEc 20       09/76
FA Ena
Board Approv-
al thro'Effe-
ctiveneas
Supervision 1 10/76              (AF3AG - please check SPN blackbooks
Supervision 2 12/77              for this data. RMZ files do not go
Supervision 3  5/78              back far enough...)
Supervision 4 10/78
Supervision 5  2/79  9   1       Ec      2         3/79   3      OMF
Supervision 6  7/79 14   5       Ec/FA   15        9/79   3      OMF
Ag/OpA/DCh
Supervision 7 12/79  7   9       Ec FA   1         1/80   3      OMF
Supervision 8  3/80 12   2       Ec/L    2         4/80   3      OF
Supervision 9 10/80 11   2       Ec/Ag   4         11/80  2      TF
Supervsion 10  4/81  6   2       Ec/FA   2          4/81  2      T
Supervsion 11 10/81 19   2       Ec/Ag   8         11/81  2      T
Supervsion 12  3/82 19   3       Ec/2Ag  12         4/82  2      TF
qupervsion 13  8/82 18   2       Ec/Ag   6          9/82  2      T
'pervsion 14  6/83     2        Ec/Ag   8         7/83  2      TF
)ervsion 15  2/84     2       Ec/Ag   8          3/84  2      TF
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal year average     US$ 1.00 = Zaire 0.5
Intervening years average US$ 1.00 = Zaire 3.7
Completion year average    USS 1.00 = Zaire 36.1



-v I
BASIC DATA SU=T
ZAIRE - SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1264-ZR&
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal   Actual          Actual as % Appraisal
…__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -_ _ _ _ _ _
Project costs (USS Mn)              39.3          33.1           s'X
Credit amount (USS Mn)              11.3          11.3           100%
Disbursed                               5.1          45%
Cancelled                               6.2          55%
Date Physical Components
Completed                                         Doe  87
Board Appraisal                                   06/15/82
Agreement Date                                    08/06/82
Effective Date                                    03/31/83
Closing Date                        06/30/86    06/30/87
ERR (%)                             62%           negative
Financial performance                             worse
Institutional performance                         similar
…__ _ _ _.._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
…-----------------------------______---------____---__---------------------
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
=________________________________________________________________________-
Appraisal (US$M)         2.0      7.0      9.0      11.0
Actual (US$M)             0       0.3      0.8      1.5      3.9      5.1
Actual/APR (%)           ...       26%    34%       35%      69%      93%
Date of final
disbursement                                                          06/84
Amount cancelled                                                      $621,000
…---------------------------------------------------------__---------------
STAFF INPUTS
…---------------------------------------------------------------__---------
FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88
…-----------------------------------------------------------______-__------
Preappraisal 16
Appraisal               15
Negotiations
Supervision                        12    6      10    4      6
Other
…--------------------------------------------------------------------__---



- vi -
MISSION DATA
____-----------------------------------------------------------__----___
ission      DAI&  NQ   No_    ftegn   Staff    Re£Xort Status Typea
DaXa 2X1sos reAres- weeks   data            of Pro
ented                          blems
Preappraisal  03/80                      16
Appraisal     11/80 21   5       2Ag/AgE 15       05/82
FA Eng
Board Approv-
al thro'Effe-
ctiveness
Supervision 1 08/82 18   2       Ec/Ag   6        09/82  2       MTF
Supervision 2 06/83 21   2       Ec/Ag   6        08/83  2       MTF
Supervision 3 01/84 22   2       Ec/Ag   6        03/84  2       MTF
Supervision 4 12/84 10   2       Ec/Ag   4        01/85  3       MTF
Supervision 5 03/85 13   2       Ec/Fa   6        04/85  3       MTF
Supervision 6 07/85 7    1       Ec      1         7/85   2      MTF
Supervision 7 10/86      1       Ec                1/87   3      MTF
…__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal year average     US$ 1.00 = Zaire 5.7
Intervening years average  US$ 1.00 = Zaire 39.6
C-ompletion year average    USS 1.00 = Zaire 112.4



- vii -
ZAIB
FIRST AND SECOND COTTON REHAILITATTON PROJECTS
(CREDITS 660-ZR AND 1264-ZRI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMAY
1=oduct;on and ObAectives
1.     These two projects were respectively the first and the seventh IDA-
supported agricultural projects in Zaire. The projects were intended to
rehabilitate a sector which had flourished during the pro-Independence
period, but which had fallen sharply into decline since the early 1960s.
Both projects were intended to lead to longer term regional development
initiatives which woul.i spearhe&d new development of the rural interior of
Zaire. using cotton as .e motor for development. The projects financed
equipment and vehicles for cotton extension, cotton marketing and cotton
ginning as well as for road maintenance in the case of the first project.
Tmbiementation exDerience
2.     Both projects failed to achieve a durable increase in cotton
production. Poor performance on the first project was due to a combination
of factors linked to unclear management responsibility by a heavy (14-
strong) technical assistance team, with ill-defined responsibilities in the
early years. In later years the proJect started to meet original targets,
only for the management team to be replaced at the end of the project
period by one with minimum field experience. The second project stpzted up
during a difficult period after major currency devaluation and the
beneficiary companies were reluctant to accept tho steep on-lending
conditions and associated foreign risk for a product with only a local
market. Disbursements progressed very slowly, until Government converted
its loan to one major company into equity. This could not unfortunately be
replicated for the other two companies, in which the Government had either
a very small or no equity share.
3.     Accompanying problems facing cotton companies during the project
period include the limited or untimely credit available for financing the
cotton harvests from the commercial banks. Level of management in a post-
africanization environment in Zaire was poor and it was (and still is)
difficult to attract high quality management staff (whether national or
expatriate) to work in the difficult conditions in the interior of Zaire.
Lack of research has meant that there have been no now or improved cotton
varieties in Zaire for more than a decade. Yields have been severely
affected by poor and irregular application of insecticides, sporadically
supplied under foreign aid grants, but not accepted as a fundamental
financial responsibility of the cotton companies during the project
periods. Lack of support by the Government in funding rural road
maintenance and cotton extension led also to these important areas being
neglected and thus providing a major obstacle to cotton companies.



- viii -
Details
4.     Production performance on tho firat project improved as the
technical assistance team assiened to the stat. cotton company settled in.
Actual level of production was less thai half that of original projections
by the sixth year of the proJect. The intention was to have brought the
company up to an attractive performance level from where it could be
privatized. In reality, the only party interested in the company was a
Kinshasa-based textile group, which accepted a management contract, before
taking a decision on fuller involvement.
5.     Under the se-ond project. production performance was scarcely
affected by the credit and production in all companios which were to have
been beneficiaries continued to fall year by year. laptct on cotton
producers was marginal %nd the rate of return on investments were negative.
Sustainabilitv
6.     The first cotton project depended upon a heavy techmical assistance
team from the begiuning and little effort was made to hand over to
nationals during the project period. It was expected that at least some of
that team would be absorbed during privatization, but thiz was not the
case. SUstainability vas to have been found in the transfer to private
management of the cotton company, but poor physical performance and an
uncertain investment environment in Zaio put this objective out of reach.
7.     The second cotton project should aormally have provided beneficiary
cotton companies with now plant and equipment to operate more efficiently
and to generate inbernal reserves to function normally after a severe
period of financial stress following zairesnization and nationalization.
Tk. need for medium and long term credit by the cotton companies still
exists, but the macroeconomic environment is such that borrowing at double
f igure monthly rates of interest make any rational investment decisions
extremely difficult.
FindiAng  and lesson   ere
S.     The effects of a poor macroeconomic onvironment and the aftermath oI
major political decisions which diminished investment confidence in Zaire
were all elements responsible for poor performance of the two projects.
However even if macroeconomic improvoment occurs, it will require other
accompanying measures to ensure the improvement of performance of the
cotton sector. Among these, public investment in rural roads and
agricultural research are primordial. There is also a clear need to
emphasize the role of improved general agricultural extension services to
pertrade farmers of the relevance of cotton in the agricultural production
cycle - particularly in an environment where the traditional role of the
extensiozr services has been to impose cotton production on farmers for past
decades. The cotton sector must also start to develop on the basis of
price formulae which reflect the levels of alternative imported cotton
fiber prices. A positive move in this direction is the proposed adoption of
a professional charter for all actors within the sector, which defines a
formula for applying a domestic cotton price linked to sliding
international averages.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FIRST AND SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECTS
(CR. 660-ZR AND 1264-ZR)
1. SUMMARY
1.01        Cotton has been produced :n Zaire since 1921.  Production increased
to a peak of 180,000 tons in 1059 and then *lumped back to barely 101 of that
figure during the years following Indopendence. As a crop which has been
exclusively produced by peasant farmers, both the Government and the Bank Group
have devoted considerable attention to revitalizing the sector. During the ten
years between 1977 and 1987, IDA-funded two cotton rehabilitation projects (Cr.
660-ZR and Cr. 1264-ZR). The present Completion Report covers the experience of
these two projects.
1.02        The first Cotton Rehabilitation project was designed to support the
rehabilitation of cotton marketing and ginning activities by a parastatal cotton
company (later to become COTONZAIRE) ope-ating over an extensive part of the
Equateur Region of north west Zaire. The second project, which followed major
institutional changes in the subsector in the late 1970s, was designed as an
emergency program to provide foreign axchange to the three other major cotton
companies (SOTEXCO, la COTONNIERE and ESTAGRICO), operating respectively in Haut
Zaire, Kasai Oriental and North Shaba regions. Both projects were designed
originally as short first phases of a program, which was intended to be followed
by broader-based projects aimed at more general development, using cotton as the
motor for rural development.
1.03        Both projects failed to achieve a durable increase in cotton
production. In the first project (Cr. 660-ZR), the parastatal cotton company,
COTONZAIRE, only achieved increases in cotton production from 2,500 tons in
1978/79 to 5,400 tons in 1983/84, barely 402 of the appraisal target, and in
1987 cotton production sank to a little more than 2,000 tons, its lowest lebel
for years.
1.04        The second cotton project (Cr. 1264-ZR) coincided with a major
devaluation of the local currenc'- at the start of its execution (1983).  In the
wake of the devaluation and in the context of a fragile stabilization program,
financing terms, including the foreign exchange risk and a 152 interest rate,
proved unattractive to the cotton companies, which sold most of their output on
the domestic market. As a result, disbursements progressed very slowly.
However, the Government's decision, towards the end of the project period. to
use part of the credit funds as equity for a capital increase of one of the
companies (La COTONNIERE) raised the disbursement rate from 141 to 452 in the
last project year; !55 of the credit was cancelled at end 1987, one year after
the expected closing date.



- 2 -
In 1986, the Government, with IDA approval, used credit funds to com$ission a
major study with CFDT, to examine the entire cotton subsector including both
private and Government structure, pricing formulas and extension/processing
techniques and come up with recommendations for reorganization and investment.
These studies have now been completed and have resulted in a board framework for
sector rehabilitation. Also, on the strength of their conclusions, CFDT have
themselves created a new company in the Haut Zaire region in the north east and
are actively bringing to bear their extensive African experience to attempt to
rehabilitate this important smallholder cash crop.
1.05        The lessons from these two projects, which were carried out over a
combined nine-year period, can be summarized as followss
(a)   project performance was strongly affected by changes in
macroeconomic policy in Zaire, notably nationalization and
subsequent privatization of enterprises, devaluating and
subsequent inflation, as well as scarcity of credit and poor
public funding. Without macroeconomic stability, the
effectiveness of new investments in the cotton subsector will
remain limited;
(b) even if macroeconomic conditions are beginning to be met, the
expansion of cotton production will require a concerted effort
on several fronts. Major among these are (i) improvement in
the rural roads network whose deterioration has been a main
reason for contraction of the cultivated area; (ii) improved
yield performance without which the return per man day for the
cotton farmer remains poor and uncompetitive with other crops
also produced in cotton-growing areas; (iii) a linkage of
producer prices--and of cotton lint prices arranged with the
textile companies--with international prices so as to
compensate for local inflation, and to provide much needed
incentives for the farmers to redevelop cotton cultivation.
(c)   a durable formula has to be found for the funding of road
infrastructure and the credit needs of the cotton industry, as
well as the extension services involved in cotton. Experience
has shown that complete dependability on the public sector
budget remains unworkable, and earmarked funds such as from
levies on cotton sales, will again have to be introduced at
least for an initial period until GoverNment's budget funding
and management improves; and
(d)   continued weak management of extension and cotton collection
services, combined with the unsustainability of expatriate
ssistance in the long term, points to the urgent need for
replacement of expatriates by competent nationals, and the
setup and execution of a comprehensive training program to
accelerate such replacements.



II. INTRODUCTION
2.01     In 1959, Zaire produced a record crop of cotton of almost 180,000
tons. Six years later, as a result cf the civil disturbances, production
barely reached 102 of this level and the country had to import 11,000 tons
of cotton fiber to meet the needs of the textile industry. With the return
of political stability in the late 1960s, production picked up again
modestly until the Zairianization measures hit most productive enterprises
in 1973/74; since, production has rarely exceeded 25,000 tons. During this
period, the Bank financed two cotton projects, the first (Cr. 660-ZR)
limited to a parastatal cotton company in the Equateur region in the
northwest, and the second (Cr. 1264-ZR), aimed at re-equipping and
rehabilitating cotton production by three mixed cotton companies in Kasai
Oriental, North Shaba and Haut Zaire Regions. implemented consecutively
during the ten years between 1977 and 1987. This Completion Report covers
the two projects. Based on the experience with these two projects and in
the light of the changing economic conditions in Zaire, the report aims at
identifying grounds for a new initiative in support of cotton production.
2.02     Information in this PCR has been drawn from project files in the
World Bank offices both in Kinshasa and in Washington, from CSCo, from Bank
supervision reports, a completion report prepared by the manager of
COTONZAIRE in 1983 and from field contacts the author of this report had
with the cotton companies during the past four years.
III. THE COTTON SUBSECTOR
3.01     Cotton was introduced in Zaire in 1921 and was the engine of
development in a large part of the rural interior of the country.
Traditionally, cotton has been produced by smallscale peasant farmers,
usually in rotation with foodcrops. Though for many farmers, cotton
represented the first contact with the cash economy and a reliable source
of revenue, the colonial administration introduced legislation making it
compulsory for reluctant farmers living in cotton-producing areas to
cultivate a minimum hectarage. The legislation was enforced rigorously
during colonial times and gave cotton a bad reputation in the rural
population. However, the legislation was not rescinded after independence
and is still being used sporadically by local administrations, mainly to
collect taxes.
3.02     Cotton is produced in two different climatic zones with quite
different crop calendars. In the north of Zaire, cotton is planted in
June/July and harvested from December onwards, while in the south it is
planted in January/February and harvested from July onwards. The important
cotton-growing areas are the sub-regions of Ubangu and Hongala in Equateur
region, the sub-regions of Haut-Uele and Bas-Uele in Haut-Zaire, the
regions of Haniema and Sud-Kivu, the sub-regions of Tanganika, Lualaba and
Haut-Lomami in Shaba and the region of Kasai Oriental. Cotton-growing
areas include climates with one or two rainy seasons and both savanna and
forest regions. Annual rainfall ranges from 1,000 to 1,900 mm with 110-170
days of rain. Soils are extremely diverse from lateritic types to



colluvial bottomlands and alluvial river deposits. In part of Kabinda (Kasai
Oriental), Tanganika (Shaba), Maniema, Bas-Uele (Haut-Zaire) and around Uvira,
the po..ential for cotton production is excellent.
3.03        Four main cotton companies operate in different areas of the
country. They own the ginneries and are responsible for extension, input supply
and the collection of cotton from farmers. Until 1973, the cotton companies
were privately-owned by Belgian interests and either exported their cotton or
sold it to the local textile industry.
3.04        At the peak of cotton production in 1959 (180,000 tons), more than
800,000 farmers were producing cotton. Cotton represented 14X of agricultural
exports and 5.52 of total exports. After the period of civil unrest in the
early 19609, production picked up again to reach a post-independence record of
67,000 tons in 1973. Since, production again declined and stabilized in 1978 at
levels ranging from 17,000 to 18,000 tons of seed cotton. Today, only about
150,000 to 200,000 planters grow cotton on an average area of between 27-30 ares
with very poor yields, averaging little more than 300 kg/ha.
3.05        The decline in cotton cultivation resulted first, from the civil
disturbances of the 1960s and, second, from the zairianization measures of 1973.
In the cotton subsector, the zairianization involved the creation of the "Office
National des Fibres Textiles' (ONAFITEX), a poorly prepared national cotton
parastatal which took over all the assets of the private cotton companies and
resulted in confusion and widespread management breakdown.
3.06        In 1978, the zairianization policy was reversed; the Government
reduced its ownership to a minority participation in three of the four major
cotton companies, while the majority shares were partly returned to their former
owners and partly sold to the local textile industries. Despite attempts to
privatize, the fourth cotton company remained the property of the Government,
which contracted the management to SOTEXCO, one of the main textile companies.
3.07        The reversal of the zairianization measures did not achieve the
desired cotton expansion, for several reasonst first, strong inflation over the
fast decade, coupled with periodic scarcity of foreign exchange and of credit,
impeded desperately-needed investments in inputs, transport equipment and roads.
Second, given the alternative, the textile companies preferred importing cheap
cotton to supporting local production. Finally, the critical situation of
government finances contributed to a continuous deterioration of its
responsibilities in funding extension services, renewed planting material (until
recently) and roads. All this has kept yields down to a level at which,
combined with low producer prices, the crop ceased to be competitive with other
crops (i.e., coffee, maize) in many rural areas.



IV. CREDIT 660-ZR
4.01     Government's Request.  Rehabilitation of the cotton industry was
on the Government's list of project priorities, when a project was prepared
in the late 1960s. However, that project was never appraised because of
the instability in the cotton subsectors in 1970, the Government sent the
army to occupy certain cotton ginneries and in 1973 it took over the
ginneries.   For about 18 months, the expatriate personnel was not allowed
to leave and was obliged to carry out operations as usual. Most
expatriates left the cotton subsector thereafter.
4.02     In early 1973, a French-funded C}DT team was sent to the Ubangui
sub-region of Equateur, with the objective of exploring the Government's
request for a project. It was the presence of this team which attracted
the Bank's attention to the area. where the technical potential for
doubling cotton in 5 years was identified as a feasible goal. The actual
techniques of cotton growing did not presene any special problems. The
emphasis had to be on organization and management. An identification
mission from RMWA in Abidjan was followed by a preparation mission from the
FAO/CP in 1974, which decided on the design of a project to follow on from
the French program started in Equateur.
4.03     Project Processing.  Fairly major differences existed between the
Government's request, as prepared by the FAO/CP, and the project which the
Bank finally appraised in April 1975. The geographical scope of the
request was limited to an entity within the ONAFITEX Regional Directorate
for Equateur, whereas the project was extended to include the whole region
at appraisal. On the other hand, the Government requested technical
assistance to erect seven new ginneries. which the Bank felt would lead to
considerable overcapacity as well as providing certain technical
difficulties. The consequent modifications at appraisal resulted in a
project estimated to cost US$30 million against an original request of
US$13.3 million. The project contained a heavy technical assistance
component both for ONAFITEX in Kinshasa and Equateur and for strengthening
the cotton and food crops extension services. Funds were included for
transport and road maintenance to improve the efficiency of the
organization of the cotton marketing campaign.
4.04     Poor organization and management of ONAFITEX was one of the issues
facing the appraisal mission and the related problem which this presented
for the independent operation of a project in one of the ONAFITEX key
geographical areas. The appraisal mission felt that it was not vithin the
scope of the project to reorganize ONAFITEX. The resident mission in
Kinshasa insisted that the project should be a discrete operation as
independent as possible from ONKPITEX. Debate on this issue vas lively but
there was general acceptance that any solution short of qualified
professionals in executive management positions would run the risk of
failure. This meant expatriate management. The appraisal mission obtained
verbal agreement from the Minister of Agriculture on a large degree of
management autonomy and on the appointment of expatriates to executive
positions.



4.05     Long discussions followed the circulation of the Decision
Memorandum after the return of the appraisal mission, particularly since it
became apparent that there vould be a financing gap and there were some
doubts about the sincerity of Zairian interest in the project. Several
alternatives were considered to reduce the scope. One vas to suggest
funding of the road maintenance component separately under the Banks Third
Highway project. Finally, because of the financing gap, the high project
risks and the long disbursement period, the project period was reduced from
six to four years and some of the agricultural services and most on-farm
investments were postponed to a second phase. The project vas to focus on
cotton marketing to ensure more timely purchase of the cotton crop,
improving transport roads, rehabilitating the ginneries and providing some
assistance to ONAFITEX in improving its organization and operations. The
revised project cost was reduced to US$14.5 million of which about US$3
million was expected to be financed by FAC for technical assistance.
4.06     As project preparation continued through Yellow Cover, it was
expected that the French aid and cooperation- program would continue to fund
the CFDT team which had started the project preparation work. However, the
FAC decided in 1975 that they preferred to diversify their assistance to
the country rather than concentrate their limited resources in one region
(Equateur). This was a major blow for the project preparation team, who
felt that the presence of the CFDT team was critical to the success of the
project. The French Caisse Centrale briefly considered participating in
the project, but then withdrew. By May 1976, the CFDT team had been
withdrawn from the project area--leaving a hiatus and no team to set up the
new project. Finally, the Belgian Administration for Cooperation and
Development (AGCD) stepped in and agreed to fund 601 manmonths of technical
assistance in support of the project. As a result of the delays involved
in agreeing on the details of Belgian participation, it was not until
September 1976 that negotiations of this project could be held. IDA
insisted that the project manager nominated by AGCD be present at
negotiations. The incumbent had been a director of one of the former major
Belgian cotton companies in Zaire. Some reservations were expressed by IDA
as to whether this might not represent a handicap under the new
circumstances.
4.07     The resident mission in Kinshasa insisted that the project should
be a discrete operation financially as independent as possible from
ONAFITEX, which had a poor record of financial management. Financial
operational autonomy was an essential element of discussions during
negotiations. It was also agreed that all agricultural extension staff
would be absorbed by ONAFITEX in the project area to avoid separate
extension services for cotton and foodcrop production. The Office des
Routes was selected as the executing agency for the feeder road component.
Understanding on the above points was critical to the project's success.
Less than full respect of these undertakings later created problems for
successful implementation.
4.08     Proiect Content.  The project, as defined following negotiations,
was intended to stimulate the development of cotton production over four
years in the Ubangui and Mongala sub-regions of Equateur by improving
cotton buying, transporting and marketing, the road network, the extension
service, and the ginneries. Specifically the project includeds



(a) the services of a consulting firm to allow ONAFITEX to
organize the cotton buying campaign and the provision of the
required trucks and equipment to transport the cotton;
(b) equipment and working capital for a road improvement program
to support agricultural development in the project areas;
(c) improved agricultural extension services, involving training
and demonstration materials, transport, applied research,
insecticides and dusters for cotton growers; insecticides
were for the third and fourth years of the project, vwen the
level of the extension services would have been improved;
(d) the development and improvement of the organization,
financial control and accounting systems of ONAFITEX Read
Office and Equatorial Regional Office, with the assistance of
a consultant team;
(e) spare parts and equipment to rehabilitate the ginneries.
4.09     Overall responsibility for the management of the project was to be
with the ONAFITEX Regional Director. He would maintain separate accounts
and would report to the Director General of ONAFITEX. The project includ d
funding for 14 internationally-recruited staff, who would withdraw to an
advisory capacity for the last year of their contract, with the intention
of handing over thereafter to their Zairois counterparts. Furthermore,
tThe chief accountant from the technical assistance team was to be
stationed in Kinshasa to assist ONAFITEX in setting up improved accounting
procedures.
4.10     For the road component, an agreement was to be drawn up between
Office des Routes and ONAFITEX, giving responsibility for maintenance of
the project equipment to Office des Routes once an equipment support base
had been established in the project area.
4.11     The project was to increase yields from 200 kg/ha (lower than the
national average) to 350 kg/ha by year 4. Total area devoted to cotton
production was expected to increase from 22,500 ha to 36,000 ha by the
fourth year of the project. Production was expected to increase from 4,500
tons to 12,600 tons of seed cotton.
4.12     The financing of project costs amounting to US$14.6 million was to
be shared as follows:  IDA - US$8.0 million; Government of Zaire - US$3.5
million; and Belgian AGCD - US$3.1 million. Government agreed to on-lend
the credit amount--except for that part (US$4 million) devoted to road
improvement--to ONAFITEX (later COTONZAIRE) at 6Z for 15 years, in line
with comm rcial bank interest rates for agriculture at the time, with four
years grace period. The exchange risk was to be borne by the cotton
company. These terms were considerably softer than those which were
negotiated for the follow-up cotton project described below.



4.13     Project Startup.  After effectiveness in May 1977, some five
months after the credit had been signed, the project got off to a slow and
precarious start. Firstly, problems between the Technical Assistance (TA)
team and the Zairian counterpart staff hampered early project
implementation. Many of the TA personnel had worked earlier for the
Belgian cotton companies in Zaire and had been used to a different
environment to that which they encountered on their return. There were
problems of interpersonal tension between the Project Manager and the
national Deputy project manager, who was appointed by Presidential decree.
Secondly, the Belgian AGCD did not consider that the candidates for the TA
posts needed to be cleared by the Zaire authorities. There was little or
no consultation either with IDA or the Government when the Financial
Manager was removed and a replacement was sent early in the project. As a
consequence, very little was done to ensure that counterpart arrangements,
such as the provision of suitable housing, were ready by the time the team
moved up to Equateur. Support from OA.WITEX in Kinshasa was limited, and
this had repercussions on funding of the cotton campaign and payment of
local salaries.  The 1977/78 cotton campaign had to be interrupted in early
1978, when ONAFITEX failed to ensure the transfer of credit funds to
purchase cotton and liaison between ONAFITEX and the Project was
precarious.
4.14     Physical performance.  In terms of physical results, the 1977/78
cotton crop was disappointing, down to 2,979 tons from 4,030 tons the
previous year. The project team maintained that much of this was due to
problems which had been inherited from the previous year, including poor
seed distribution, poor seed quality. lack of vehicles, lack of staff
housing, no tools in the maintenance garages and a low cotton price. It
was, however, the last year the project was subjected to ONAFITEX
management interference. Production of seed cotton subsequently increased
but not by as much as appraisal estimatess
78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84
Production of
cotton (tons)   A   2552      2582     3114      4364     5882     5371
F   4500     6250     9000    12600    12600    12600
Area planted    A  26947    20853    23031    19849    14922    22894
F  22500    25000    30000    36000    36000    36000
Yields kg/ha    A     95       124      135       220      394      284
F    200      250       300      350      350       350
A - Actual
F - Forecast in Appraisal report
4.15     Performance improved as the company management settled in and as
the equipment and vehicles for the marketing and ginning activities began
to arrive. Agricultural extension services were intensified from 1981
onwards with the intention of reducing the farme?/extension worker ratio
from 500s1 in 1980 to a longer term objective of 150s1. However, by the
time the project ended, there were still only 202 extension staff for some
73,000 cotton planters, a ratio of 360l. a major reason for the poor
response to the efforts and resources mobllz.cd by the project. Another



- 9 -
factor influencing performance was the price paid for cotton, and the timing of
its announcement. Invariably, announcements of new prices only came after
fields had been planted. Despite the more liberal price policy adopted in 1984,
and despite CFDT'S policy to pay a minimum proportion of a world reference price
to the farmer, COTONZAIRE has so far taken little interest under UTEXCO
management in improving farmer benefits. On balance, the appraisal estimate of
12,500 tons of seed cotton for the area is probably a maximum in the foreseeable
future. It is very unlikely that production can ever reach its pr--Independence
peak of about 19,000 tons of seed cotton for the Equateur region.
4.16        Few attempts were made to diversify farmers out of cotton production
or to provide extension on food crops. The operations of COTONZAIRE
concentrated in 1983, individual traders and commercial agents held effective
monopolies on certain areas for the production of food crops, such as rice and
maize, and such traders did, in their own way, provide some basic services, such
as road maintenance and social services. These services have deteriorated since
the liberalization decisions removed local monopolies.
4 17        Road Component. The road component was the weakest component of the
project. At the outset, Office des Routes (OR) was supposed to maintain about
1,200 km of roads mechanically and about 1,350 km with manual labor. Problems
with startup of the component were related to the slow delivery of equipment for
the mechanized road brigade. There were also problems of poor coordination
between ONAFITEX and OR and later between the project entity and OR, and there
was an unclear distribution of responsibilities. When in 1981, COTONZAIRE
assumed full responsibility for the road unit, road maintenance activities
improved slightly. However, operational funding plagued the road maintenance
program until the end of the project. Nevertheless, two major bridges were
constructed and a number of smaller bridges completed, facilitating cotton
transport.
4.18        Prolect Orianization and Manatement. Early supervision missions
from the Bank succeeded in reducing the intervention of ONAFITEX in the detailed
management of the project by a system of work programming, whereby the Project
Manager was left free to implement the annual prograt, once it had been agreed
with ONAFITEX. A system of regular reporting to the Director of ONAFITEX kept
the latter briefed on progress.
4.19        In 1977, the shortcomings of parastatals, ONAFITEX in particular,
became more apparent. Cotton production activities throughout Zaire were
increasingly affected by the huge debt of ONAFITEX and the Bank's growing
reluctance to finance further cotton campaigns. In May 1978, without consulting
IDA (despite the Credit agreement), the Government dissolved ONAFITEX. Confusion
resulted from the fact that the Government had not decided to suspend
disbursements, but to dispatch a mission to review the situation and Government
proposals for future project management arrangements.



- 10 -
4.20     Following the mission, the Government proposed that the Cotton
Project be implemented by a regional company in Equateur established for
that purpose. The company would form part of a nev subsector institutional
structure, set up to replace ONAFITEX, and based on reduced government
ownership of the cotton companies and on a new cotton regulatory agency,
the Caisse de Stabilisation Cotonniere (CSCo) created in August 1978,
designed to coordinate the subsector under the oversight of the Department
of Agriculture. The regional company in Equateur was to work under a
contract with CSCo, which would finance purchases of seed cotton and
reimburse the company for its expenses incurred in production, marketing
and processing. The company would differ from the other regional companies
only in its ownership. It would be a wholly-owned Government company,
rather than a mixed-capital company. At the time, the reason for this
exception was that the Belgian Government was unable (or unwilling) to
provide technical assistance to a company financed by private capital. In
1979, a supervision mission suggested a mixed company formula for
COTONZAIRE, but the suggestion was rejected on the grounds that too much
time would be lost in trying to attract private partners.
4.21     Technical Assistance Performance.  When the Project Manager
resigned at the end of the first year, IDA had reservations about the
promotion of the Deputy Project Manager to the post of Manager. However,
after an AGCD field mission returned from Equateur with a positive
evaluation of changes initiated by the new Project Manager, IDA withdrew
its reservations, subject to regular review of performance, and the new
Project Manager remained in post till the end of the project. With the
creation of COTONZAIRE, the technical assistance team was better integrated
into the new company and responsibilities were more clearly defined.
However, overall performance of the TA team by the end of their stay was
mixed, as indicated by supervision missions which concluded thats (i) the
performance of the team was compromised by an insufficient coordination
with Zairian authorities; (ii) inadequate attention was given to training
of local staff; and (iii) more follow-up and supervision on the part of the
Department of Agriculture would have helped to improve coordination.
4.22     Nevertheless, in late 1982, an IDA supervision mission stated that
the company was well managed under prevailing conditions in Zaire.
Purchases, marketing operations and seed distribution had normalized over
the past three years, production had increased and the company was breaking
even financially. Furthermore, technical assistance had been reduced from
thirteen to seven people in mid-1981. The technical assistance was
terminated in 1983 when the Government contracted the management of
COTONZAIRE to the textile company UTEXCO. A year later, as staff were
replaced and liquidity problems developed in UITEXCO, the prospects of
continued improvement started to decline.
4.23     Procurement.  Given that this was one of the Bank Group's first
projects, there were initial delays and problems caused by unfamiliarity
with Bank procurement procedures. This, coupled with long delays by
ONAFITEX in the signature of disbursement requests, added to the sense of
frustration of the project team up in the interior. In addition, the
project experienced problems in the first two years of execution due to



- 11 -
excessive delays caused by the Bank of Zaire granting-import licenses for goods
purchased with credit funds, and to the poor relationships between ONAFITEX and
the project. However, once the initial problems were overcome, and even after
ONAFITEX was wound up, the project did not present any major procurement
problems.
4.24        Financial Performance.  COTONZAIRE had a relatively sound financial
situation by the end of 1981, and could do without government budget support.
Excess cash, resulting from the fact that the company was not paying for its
technical assistance, was used for a premature repayment of IDA Credit.
Unfortunately, the timing of the management contract coincided with a
particularly difficult period for UTEXCO's own internal finances and liquidity.
This affected both the independence of the new managers appointed to COTONZAIRE
and the timely payment of cotton fiber delivered to UTEXCO. COTONZAIRE was due
almost Z 50 million in unpaid cotton deliveries by 1987.
4.25        Reporting.  Reporting performance under the project was
satisfactory, once a regular reporting system had been adopted after the first
year of the project. Quarterly reports were submitted regularly to the CSCo and
to the Bank. The first audit of the company's financial accounts took place in
1979. No attempt was made to reestablish the accounts for 1977178. Some delays
were registered in 1983 in preparing financial accounts for the preceding year,
but these were finally produced for the hand-over of management responsibility
from the Belgian TA team to UTEXCO.
4.26        Monitoring and Evaluation.  It was acknowledged from the outset that
monitoring and evaluation should be included as an integral part of project
activities. However, it was also clear that ONAFITEX was unlikely to be able to
handle this activity. Attempts were made to associate the Department of
Agricultural Economics at Yangambi which had expressed an interest in
participating. However, when the Professor of Agricultural Economics left to
return to Belgium, no replacement was available to undertake the work that had
been tentatively agreed. The Department of Agriculture confided the task to its
own Service d'Etudes, but failed to nominate anyone specifically responsible for
the task--and thus internal project monitoring and evaluation was virtually non-
existent. The only project monitoring and evaluation was virtually non-
existent. The only agency which maintained as regular control on weekly
production and field results was CSCo. These data form the basis of existing
cotton sector statistics for both Cr. 660-ZR and Cr. 1264-ZR project activities.
V. CREDIT 1264-ZR
5.01        Government's Request.  Encouraging progress during 1978-80 prompted
a review of the cotton subsector, which an IDA mission carried out in March
1980. The mission concluded that cotton production in Zaire could be
substantially increased by improving marketing operations, rehabilitating
existing processing facilities and strengthening extension services. In April
1980, CSCo elaborated a four-year emergency rehabilitation project for the
cotton companies not covered by the ongoing Cr. 660-ZR (La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO,
and ESTAGRICO) and had the new project submitted to the Bank Group.



- 12 -
5.02     Protect Processing.  Internal review within the Bank of the cotton
subsector report and of the Government's request concluded that the two
documents provided a sound basis for a possible future project. It was
considered that the proposed cotton rehabilitation program, relying on the
return of good management for the existing companies, would yield quick
returns. In addition to direct benefits, it was considered that the
project would help the cotton sector to become once again the main motor
for development of Zaire's rural areas. The project was initially expected
to cost about US$15 million, most of it in foreign exchange which was
extremely scarce at the time in Zaire. It was expected that urgently
needed capital goods would be imported exclusively for the cotton
companies. The European Development Fund (EDF) and the French Caisse
Centrale pour la Cooperation Economique (CCCE) were to meet about US$9.2
million for basic needs and operating costs of the cotton companies and IDA
expected to finance the remainder. Prior to appraisal, four issues were
raised: (i) the credibility of government policy (there were doubts
whether the reorientation towards the private sector would hold): (ii) the
need to find an adequate formula for farm gate and cotton company prices;
(iii) the perpetration of imposed cultivation legislation for cotton
producers; and (iv) the need to implement a cost recovery mechanism for
farm inputs which had traditionally been distributed free.
5.03     Appraisal of the project took place in November and December 1981.
The appraisal mission concluded that a limited emergency import program
would represent a sensible investment in support of the Government's cotton
rehabilitation program. In addition to providing urgently needed foreign
exchange for the cotton subsector, the project would also support policy
reforms and adjustments on the key issues of subsector management and
cotton pricing. The project would fit into the Bank strategy for
agriculture lending to Zaire by removing short-term bottlenecks and
involving the private sector. The project would support Government's
policy of entrusting productive activities and extension services to non-
government institutions. The project was expected to contribute to
increasing national cotton production by about 30,000 tons by 1984/85.
5.04     Negotiations for the project were delayed until February 1982,
while preconditions concerning the legal statutes of the cotton companies
and clearance from Belgium with regard to pending litigation for
zairianized cotton companies were clarified. However, the negotiations had
to be interrupted midway when it transpired that the financial situation of
two of the three companies had deteriorated seriously over recent months
following delayed payments by the textile companies for cotton deliveries.
These delays were purportedly due to the wave of increased importation of
second-hand clothing and low-quality textiles. In addition, the companies
were reluctant to accept a 152 rate of interest combined with the foreign
exchange risk on the subsidiary loan. The Government had originally
suggested that the cotton companies should bear 7.52 interest in
acknowledgment that they undertook several basic development services in
the rural areas on behalf of the State and direct compensation for these
services was not always forthcoming. This argument was not taken into
account when negotiations resumed at the end of March. The cotton
companies reluctantly accepted the rate of interest and exchange risk
conditions and the Government agreed temporarily to the exportation of
cotton to resolve the short-term cash-flow problems created by the non-
payment for cotton deliveries by the textile companies.



- 13 -
5.05        Proiect content.  The project as defined during negotiations was
intended as a four-year phase of a long-term cotton rehabilitation program
Initiated by the Goverrment in 1978. It was designed as a complement to the
COTONZAIRE project to support an emergency rehabilitation program of the three
major cotton comparies under private management. The main project objective was
to increase cotton production in the areas of the three cotton companies from
23,000 to 55,000 tons of seed cotton within five years an' to substitute for
imports of cotton lint or textiles. Additional objectives were to *timulato the
production of foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton and to Improve living
conditions in cotton-growing areas through lmproved communication and health
services. The components to be Implemented over the four-year period were as
followss
(a)   rehabilitation and lmprovezent of ginneries by providing spare
parts and equipment for power engines and workshops;
(b) lmprovement of cotton marketing by renewal and expansion of
the cotton companies' vehicle fleet;
(c)   rehabilitation of the road infrastructure by undertaking road
maintenance and bridge repair activities;
(d)   strengthening of extension services by substantially
increasing the number of extension agents and supervisors,
training them and providing them with vehicles;
(e)   provision of agricultural tools and inputs for pest control;
(f)   studies to define medium and long-term measures for
restructuring the cotton subsector and audits of CSCo and
cotton company accounts.
5.06        The three cotton companies were to be responsible for project
Implementation. CSCO was tos
-     supervise project activities and oversee the subsector
operations;
-     coordinate the procurement of goods acquired under the Credit,
attempting to achieve economies of scale by grouping orders
for the three companies; and
-     assure coordination of policy and Government involvement In
the cotton subsector.
5.07        Cotton production in the zones of the three cotton companies was
expected to increase as a result of the expansion of the area planted to cotton
and of increased yields. Cotton plantings were expected to increase from about
78,000 ha to about 112,000 ha over the project period. Total production was
expected to increase from about 26,000 tons to 55,000 tons of seed cotton. Of
the increase of 29,000 tons, about 24,000 tons was expected from increses in
cotton plantings (area) and the remainder from the application of insecticides.



- 14 -
5.08     Total project costs were estimated at US$39.3 million, with
financing to be shared as followss IDA - US$11.3 millions EDF -US$6.8
millions CCCZ - US$2.2 million; SOnID! - US$1.1 millions Government of
Zaire - US$7.0 million: Cotton Companies - US$10.9 million. The IDA credit
was to be on-lent by Government to the cotton companies for an eight-year
term with a two-year grace period at 152 interest rate. The companies
would bear the foreign exchange risk. Given the foreign exchange risk
factor, these rates remained positive in real terms.
5.09     Proiect Startup.  Effectiveness of IDA Cr. 1264-ZR was delayed by
non-signature of the subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and
the cotton companies. These agreoemnts not only laid down the on-lending
terms from the Government to the cotton companies but also linked the
transfer of ownership of the ginneries and buildings to compensation of the
original cotton company owners. Resolution of this issue was difficult and
time consuming and resulted in two postponements of the effectiveness
deadline. In the compromise solution adopted, the sale of the ginneries
and buildings was finally unlinked from the compensation issue. The
negotiated price was considered tavorable to the cotton companies.
5.10     In the meantime, orders were placed by the cotton companies for
equipment against the SOFIDZ, CCCZ and EDF financing. The CCCE-financed
trucks for SOTEXKI (to be leased to SOTEXCO for cotton transport in Haut
Zaire) and the SOFIDE financed trucks for La COTONNIERE, which arrived
during the second half of 1981. Insecticides, vehicles and equipment for
extension services and road works financed by EDP arrived during the first
half of 1982. Disbursements from cofinanciers had been completed by the
end of 1983, before the first disbursements against the IDA Credit had
begun. In spite of these deliveries, there was a general consensus that
the vehicle fleets, the equipment and the standard of the ginneries of the
three companies remained poor and badly needed renovating. Since the
return of the cotton companies to private management in 1978, very few new
investments have been made.
5.11     Physical Performance.  Cotton production was disappointing during
the project period and continues to be so. Statistics in the Table below
show a general stagnation and no marked impact during the siz years of the
project:
Cotton Production Under CR. 1264-ZR
1978-1987
('000* tons of seed cotton)
La                     SOTEXCO  Sub-    COTON-
'fear             COTONNIERZ ESTAGRICO  CODENORD Total   ZAIRE    TOTAL
77178(0RAFIIIE)        6.0        2.8       5.0   13.8    2.9        16.7
78179(G94PITEX)        7.8        3.5       5.0   16.3    2.6        18.9
79/80                 13.9        5.3       7.5   26.7    2.6        29.3
80181 PY 0             9.4        5.2       5.9   20.5    3.1        23.6
81182 PY I            10.1        4.6       4.2   18.7    4.4        23.6
82/83 PY 2             9.2        5.1       6.4   20.7    5.9        26.8
83184 PY 3             6.5        4.5       3.4   14.4    5.4        20.5
84/85 PY 4             7.2        4.8       6.0   18.0    3.9        22.4
85/86                  6.9        4.1       4.6   15.6    3.3        19.2
86187                  4.8        3.8       4.0   12.6    4.4        17.5



- 15 -
5.12        The stagnation does not have one specific cause, but is the result
of a combination of factors afflicting each of the cotton companies separately
and together. They include: (a) pcor management by the cotton companies
resulting in financial problems for funding current operations and cotton buying
activities; (b) inadequate transport fleets and consequent poor organization of
cotton markets; (c) late purchase of cotton crop and late distribution of seeds
for the following planting season; (d) deterioration of cotton varieties *nd
poor germination; (a) poorly equippoJ and poorly motivated extension servicesl
(f) absence of effective pest control. leading to major building of parasites;
(g) inadequate price incentives *specially in areas where coffee and maize
production offer attractive alternatives due in part to unfavorable cotton
prices on the world market; (h) increasingly poor state of the rural roads, as
less and less public funding availability to reimburse the cotton companies for
work undertaken to keep the roads open.
5.13        One encouraging point in the cotton sector's performance over recent
years are the increasing yields which have resulted from a concentration of
extension efforts and production support activities on fewer planters located
near the individual ginneries. Figures in the following Table reflect this
encouraging trend in cotton production for the whole of Zaire:
ZAIRE
Cotton Production data since 1979
Campaisn          Planters    Area (ha)   Cotton        Yield        Area
production  ki/ha        per
(tons)                  planter
1958-1959         877,698      369.382      179,462     486          0.42 ha
1979-1980         308,945      98,328      29,266       298          0.32 ha
1980-1981         306,578      83,726      21,150       253          0.27 ha
1981-1982         309,249      85,943      23,597       275         0.28 ha
1982-1983         283,616      76,014      26,786       352          0.27 ha
1983-1984         256,091      84,811      20,552       242          0.33 ha
1984-1985         224,218      68,565      22,391       327          0.31 ha
1985-1986         198,869      61,673       19,206      311          0.31 ha
1986-1987         138,422      44,720       16,765      375          0.32 ha
Source:   CSCO and Etude du Secteur Cotonnier au Zaire - CFDT - July '86



- 16 -
5.14     An illustration of how far the Zaire cotton sector has slipped
behind that of West African countries, is given in a 1986 IDA-funded study
on the sector. The main production and income parameters are as follows:
Comparison of Cotton Production Parameters
in Zaire and French West African Countries
(1986 data)
ZAIRE         FRENCH WEST
AFRICA
Cotton yields (kg/ha)                 325            1074
Ginning outturn (2)                   362            39.72
Cotton fiber production (kgiha)       117            426
Losses at textile mills               102            2Z
Usable fiber (kg/ha)                  105            418
Purchase price (Z/kg) 1986            12             16
Gross income (ZIha)                   3900           17184
Cost of inputs (Zlha)                 0              4800
Net income (Z/ha)                     3900           12384
Average area per planter (ha)         0.30           0.78
Average production/planter (kg)       98             834
Net revenue/planter (Z)               1170           9622
Fiber produced per planter (kg)       35             331
Number of workdays/ha                 100            135
Financial return per manday (Z)       39             92
Source: CFDT, July 1986
5.15     Problems created by imports.  During the early yeaxs of the second
project, the textile companies were facing major problems with competition
from the importation of second-hand clothing ('friperie'), vh.>ch, together
with reduced domestic purchasing power, placed a major const:a.lut on local
sales. The cotton companies suffered indirectly from this vten the textile
companies slowed their payments for cotton deliveries, which resulted in
cash flow problems and delays in repayment (and thus renewal) of commercial
credit for cotton purchases. A consequent decision to limit Laports of
such clothing and to increase taxes, together with the devaluation of the
Zaire currency, has reduced the acuteness of this problem. However, a
second problem, created by imports of subsidized US PL 480 cotton brought
domestic cotton purchases to a near halt in 1985/86. The textile
companies, who jumped on the opportunity of b7.ying quantities of imported
American cotton on favorable exchange and credit terms, subsequently found
themselves short of funds to purchase cotton from the local companies, thus
creating further liquidity problems. The situation became so critical for
ESTAGRICO, that this company applied for and obtained agreement from the
Ministry cf the Economy and Industry to export cotton to neighboring Rwanda
and Burundi. Under the new proposals for the organization of the
subsector, this problem has been addressed directly with USAID, who will in
future apply commercially competitive financing terms for imports of PL 480
cotton.



- 17 -
5.16        Disbursements.  Already during the first supeivision mission in
August 1982, there were indications that SOTEXCO might not participate in the
first round of tenders which were being centralized by CSCo and neither of the
other two companies had submitted lists of their requirements. Later ESTAGRICO
and la COTONNIERE made it clear that as long as the exchange risk was tied to
interest rates of 15%, there was little likelihood of their borrowing against
the credit. Also, the financial problems of each of these companies put them
already in a precarious position without investment at such stiff terms.
Successive supervision missions discussed this problem with Government and CSCo
in an attempt to find ways of softening the terms. The Department of Finance
and OGEDEP were included in discussions but none of these discussions led to a
formal request to modify the term and conditions of the Credit Agreement. Open
discussion of exchange risk sharing only really started with a search for ways
and means of encouraging small- and medium-scale enterprises to play an
increasingly more important role in economic activities in 1986/87, as the
credit was drawing to a close. A decision to increase, the capital of La
COTONNIERE in 1985 was taken under circumstances which found the cotton company
almost bankrupt. Tenders were launched for a major re-equipping of La
COTONNIERE's transport fleet and ginneries, drawing on Cr. 1264-ZR, made
available as Government's share in the capital increase. The equipment and
vehicles were delivered in 1987, allowing La COTONNIERE to significantly improve
in 1988 its performance in collecting the farmer's cotton. The final sums drawn
against the Credit by each of the three companies for rehabilitation investments
was as follows at closing date:
Com2anY                 Amount                   x of total original
(SDR)                   allocation
ESTAGRICO                  92,025                   4.6Z
SOTEXCO                   319,022                  17.6Z
la COTONNIERE           3,473,221                 115.4%
5.17        To all intent and purposes, Cr. 1264-ZR did very little to benefit
ESTAGRICO or SOTEXCO. It may be argued that part of the co-financing under the
project, especially for the purchase of SOTEXKI's new transport fleet with CCCE
funds and the equipping of the road brigades by EDF grant money brought a
certain assistance to meet critical problems in the early 1980s, but since then,
each company has had to rely on self generated funds or such funding as its
shareholders have been prepared to mobilize exceptionally. The cotton subsector
is still strongly under-capitalized and except for La COTONNIERE, Cr. 1264-ZR
did little to resolve this problem. The effect of the exchange risk was the
singular most dissuasive factor in low credit disbursement. ESTAGRICO
reimbursed prematurely to OGEDEP as soon as liquidity permitted. CSCo has been
negotiating on behalf of La COTONNIERE with OGEDEP to obtain softer on-lending
terms. So far without success.
5.18        Other uses of Credit fundina.  The Credit served to support certain
initiatives of CSCo as follows:
(i)   the purchase, equipping and training of staff for a new
cotton quality laboratory in Kinshasa. CSCo received
regular samples of cotton fiber from the cotton
companies for quality testing, partly to monitor
varietal performance and partly as intermediary between
the cotton companies and the textile companies who often
complain about inferior qualities of Zaire cotton;



- 18 -
(ii) the recruitment of consultant services in support of the
Training and Visit system for agricultural extension, being
promulgated by Belgian technical assistance agronomists
with each of the cotton companies;
(iii)  the execution of a cotton subsector study by the Compagnie
Fran$aise pour le Ddveloppement des Fibres Textiles (CYDT)
in 1986. This study provided a detailed insight into the
weaknesses of each company and the measures needed to
improve cotton production nationally, and drew up a series
of individual investment plans for each company. 1A
addition, proposals were made for an institutional reform
of the sector, with specific recommendations for new
legislation defining the role of the public and private
sector in the development of cotton production.
5.19     Counterpart Funding.  The counterpart funding for the project
provided from public sources was intended to finxance the road maintenance
and agricultural extension costs in the cotton producing areas. Until
1986, these funds were collected through the payment of the Fonds de
Convention pour le Developpement (FCD) levied on sales by the textile
companies and were returned directly to the cotton companies. In 1986,
under the Government's structural adjustment program, the FCD tax was fused
with the turnover tax (CCA) and the two paid to the national Treasury.
Unfortunately, budget allocation was non-existent in 1987 and inadequate in
1988. CSCo is now proposing to take a more active role in ensuring that
annual budgets are prepared in advance for the cotton companies and that
release of funds follows on a timely basis. The limited success of
attempts to improve the budget release process makes it doubtful that
major new budget allocations for cotton extenston and feeder roads can be
obtained. It is clear however that unless there is improvement in the
mobilization of funds to meet the costs of roads and agricultural extension
services, the future of the cotton sector will continue to be compromised.
5.20     Project Organization and Management.  The project was originally
conceived as a four-year emergency program to meet the foreign exchange
needs of three major cotton companies. Thc CSCo was identified as the
chief interlocutor between the donors and the cotton companies. Until the
cotton companies each took responsibility for the transport of cotton to
their own clients, CSCo arbitrated in fiber distribution to the textile
companies and operated a transport cost-sharing scheme, so as to reduce the
disadvantage of producers in remoter areas of the country. CSCo also took
the lead in organizing and recovering annual cotton campaign credits from
the consortium of commercial banks. The role of CSCo in these areas was
important in the early days of the project. Since these arrangements have
been abolished, however, the CSCo has been largely defunct, limited to a
role of information gathering.



- 19 -
5.21      Procurement.  There were no special problems with procurement, which
was handled centrally by SCSo. Following a change in management of La
COTONNIERE, which took place just after major new orders for goods and supplies
had been placed against IDA financing, there was a period when follow-up on
orders and contracts fell behind and it took the new managers of La COTONNIERE
the best part of a year to make contact with all suppliers to ensure that
deliveries would be completed before project closing date. This was finally
achieved. Government has noted that no physical inventory was carried out as
part of the project completion exercise. External financial auditcrs made no
comment on deployment of stocks procured under the project. The comment may have
been prompted by the continued presence of two heavy articulated cotton trucks in
Kinshasa. La COTONNIERE management argue, not without reason, that the
deplorable state of the roads and bridges in the project area make it dangerous
to use those big trucks there.
5.22.     Reporting.  Project reports at the outset came through regularly, but
with IDA approval were later substituted by the CSCO annual report on the
performance of the sector since the two were intrinsically related. No draft
project completion report was prepared by CSCo following a decision to prepare a
common report for the First and Second Cotton Rehabilitation projects. No
specific monitoring and Evaluation arrangements were envisaged in the original
project design. Given the limited awareness by the Department of Agriculture of
the problems facing the project until very late in the day, it would have been
useful to have designated the Service d'Etude of the Department of Agriculture to
follow progress of the sector's development and intervene more forcefully to
resolve some of the problems which arose between CSCo and the cotton companies.
5.23      Closing Date.  The original project closing date was June 30, 1986.
As this date approached and disbursements remained extremely low (only 142 as of
6/30/86), Government sought an extension of the closing date. A decision was put
off pending the Government's reaction and proposals in the wake of the CFDT
report. IDA also sought clarification on the Government's decision to increase
its contribution to the capital of La COTONNIERE by using part of the IDA credit
as equity rather than as loan funds. It was however decided that, given the
relatively modest balance which remained, compared with the investments needs
identified by CFDT, it would be better to prepare a completely new project,
incorporating a broader set of proposals. The Credit closing date was extended
to December 31, 1987 to allow time for the payment of outstanding contracts and a
balance of SDR 5.4 million (552 of the total credit) was finally cancelled
undisbursed.
VI. RATES OF RETURN
Cr. 660-ZR
6.01      A detailed calculation of the rate of return of the first cotton
project is difficult in the absence of recurrent investment cost data in the
project area. The only data available are actual disbursements of IDA and other
external financing credits and grants. The staff appraisal report estimated an
economic rate of return of 232 using standard incremental benefits derived from
two scenarios, 'with" and *without' the project. The actual volumes of
production from the project are such that the appraisal reports 'without project"
production data are higher in 6 out of the past 9 years than actual production -
and in some cases by a considerable margin, as the following figures
demonstrate:



- 20 -
1979   1980   1981   1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
(tons)
W/o project
estimate        4500   4400   4300   4200  4200  4200  4200  4200  4200
Actual prod-
uction           2552   2582   3114   4364  5882  5371  3942  3277  2000
Incremental
production       (1948) (1818) (1186)  164  1682  1171  (258) (923)(2200)
The investments funded were more or less in line with appraisal estimates,
although expenditure on roads and bridges from local sources and on
extension was below that estimated at appraisal. Ginning costs, farm labor
costs and contingencies estimated in the rate of return calculations
remained constant as a proportion of overall production. Experience in the
three postproject years has however demonstrated that without significant
new investments and, above all, satisfactory-management, pricing and credit
mechanisms, it is doubtful whether activities started under the project can
be sustained or that cotton production can be raised to levels approaching
those estimated at project appraisal. These conclusions suggest that the
project had a negative rate of return.
Cr. 1264-ZR
6.02     Whereas the economic rate of return for the first cotton project
was based on export parity prices, since it was estimated in 1976 that
Zaire could resume its position as net exporter of cotton, the rate of
return for the second cotton project was based on import parity prices, and
was estimated at a high 622, reflecting the fact that the project was a
rehabilitation investment relying on considerable sunk costs. In reality,
few of the major investmenta could be made and, in the few companies where
they were made (e.g., La jvTONNIERE), they have not translated into higher
production, due to the other problems encountered. Hence, a negative rate
of return must again be attributed to this project.
6.03     It should be mentioned that in the appraisal report the country's
economic situation and weakness of the administration were quoted as being
major risks. It was suggested that these two factors would lead to
inappropriate price policy and insufficient supply of foreign exchange.
The staff appraisal report evaluated as small the risk of unsatisfactory
management performance by the cotton companies. However, problems of weak
management have been pervasive. Only CODENORD tackled the problem face on
in 1987, by associating with the CFDT in the creation of a new company, and
ESTAGRICO has benefitted from reasonably stable management for the past
four years. The risk of insufficient deliveries of insecticides was
underestimated as experience of pest infestation demonstrated over several
seasons.



- 21 -
VIZ. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Cr. 660-ZR
7.01     The political and institutional circumstances which existed when
the first project started changed radically over the intervening years.
The first eighteen months of project operations were clearly disturbed by
poor relations between the project management unit and ONAJITEX and a poor
working atmosphere between Belgian technical assistance team and their
senior national counterparts. With the dissolution of ONAFITEX, and after
a short interim period of uncertainty, the responsibilities of CSCo were
defined and the situation gave way to one of greater autonomy for
COTONZAIRE and improved financial health, due mainly to timely availability
of cotton campaign purchasing credit and enabling the generation of
financial reserves.
7.02     The definition of responsibilities for the road maintenance
operations created problems throughout the project life. At first, the
delays in the delivery of road maintenance equipment created problems, but
once this was available, Office des Routes encountered budgetary problems
and had to turn over responsibility for the road maintenance brigades to
COTONZAIRE. with COTONZAIRE taking responsibility for the management of
the roads teams and Office des Routes providing the technical supervision.
the roads component was implemented more effectively. Since the end of the
project, Office des Routes has recovered the material from COTONZAIRE and
is using it for maintenance of roads both within and outside the project
area.
7.03     Agricultural extension systems were simple and based on visits of
extension staff to farmer fields and the establishment of demonstration
plots, particularly in group fields, where insecticides were applied. As
the project advanced, greater attention was given to intensifying extension
and to concentrating on cultivation techniques requiring few external
inputs, such as recommendations concerning planting density, timing of
planting, thinning and weeding. As the project period came to an end, a
Belgian extension specialist was assigned to COTONZAIRE, to introduce the
Training and Visit system which had been adopted elsewhere under the Second
Cottou Rehabilitation project.
7.04     The key institutional challenge facing the project in its later
years was the preparation for privatization. When the question of
privatization was raised, it was clear that there were few candidates ready
to take over COTONZAIRE, particularly at a time when the country was going
through major political changes. UTEXCO finally agreed to accept
management of the company in 1983, under a four year contract, following
which it had the option on outright purchase of the company. UTEXCO
decided to bring a new team of managers and technical experts, since it
could not afford to pay the salaries which the Belgian technical assistance
had been receiving. The first two managers remained scarcely a year in
post, due both to poor remuneration conditions and to frustration created
as UTEXCO took over more and more decisionmaking at its head office in



- 22 -
Kinshasa. The centralization of the company's accounts in Kinshasa also
meant that the company manager rarely knew what the real financial
situation of the company was from one year to the next. As the management
contract drew to a close in 1987, Government announced to UTEXCO that it
would not renew the contract. COTONZAIRE is currently managed by a
Zairiean director, who has been with the project since the early days of
the first cotton project. Government has repeated its intentions to
privatize the company and there are currently (mid-1988) signs that another
major textile company in Zaire might be interested in direct purchase.
Cr. 1264-ZR
7.05     The institutional arrangements for the second cotton project were
relatively straightforward. The Government's interests in the project were
safeguarded by the CSCo and the private companies were left with the
technical responsibility for implementation. Road maintenance and
agricultural extensicn were both initially covered by public funds, for
which CSCo provided supervision on behalf of the Fonds de Convention pour
le Developpement. However, delayed payments-for these services, as the
project advanced, created growing friction between the CSCo and the cotton
companies, who constantly threatened to lay off their extension staff when
payment delays persisted.
7.06     When the project started in the early 19809, there existed a
certain solidarity among the cotton companies, enforced by the adoption of
a common policy for the sharing of cotton transport costs to the textile
companies and recourse to consortial credit from the commercial banks,
negotiated bi-annually in close association with CSCo. Unfortunately, this
solidarity was weakened by the individual problems experienced first by La
COTONNIERE and second by increasing reticence against any form of public
sector intervention--even such as offered by CSCo. Proposals made in the
CFDT report to define the new role of the CSCo (or a similar organization
to succeed it) make a clear presentation of those areas of responsibility,
which should be assumed by an institution representing the interests of the
State and interested in promoting initiatives from the private sector. In
brief, on behalf of the State, the institution shoulds
(a) ensure the application of cotton policy and cotton
legislation;
(b) manage public finances available to the subsector;
(c) be the State's representative for the subsector; and
(d) supervise the management of public operations carried out
under contract in the subsector.
For the cotton companies, the institution should:
(a) act as arbitrator for questions concerning the domestic
cotton market;
(b) provide technical production support to the companies (on
behalf of the State);



- 23 -
(c) help in resolving logistic problems on behalf of the
companies, particularly for such matters as the supply of
inputs; and
(d) assure the secretariat of the Professional Charter, which has
been proposed to define the relations and responsibilities of
the different parties intervening in the subsector (cotton
companies, planters, textile companies, banks and
Government).
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01     Project preparation of both the first and second cotton projects
was carried out in a detailed and methodical mainner. The time taken for
preparation of the first project (over five years) indicates the level of
reflexion before adoption of the final version. The second project was
based on a subsector review and a detailed project proposal prepared by the
new Director General of the CSCo. At the time, hopes were strong that this
new project would provide the necessary impetus to raise the depressed
activities of the cotton companies. However, it is clear that the two
projects were based on different concepts; the first was conceived as a
classical rural development project anchored on cotton, whereas the second
project was a sector-wide undertaking inspired by the belief that with the
return to private ownership, management and funding as well as general
viability of the cotton companies would drastically improve.
8.02     The first project has fallen prey to the limitations of many rural
development projects, namely sustainability in terms of funding and
management after project completion, and changing conditions for the cotton.
sector as a whole; these have since been well recognized in the Bank.
Furthermore, the Bank underestimated the distrust that existed and still
exists between Zairians and expatriates, especially from the former
colonial regime. Finally, insistence by the Bank on the elimination of
legislation on compulsory cultivation would have helped clarify the issue
of the price the cotton companies were expected to pay farmers. In the
second project, the Bank was slow to recognize the reluctance of the
textile companies to invest in cotton production locally, or to give cotton
producers a fair deal in terms of pricing. Saddling the cotton companies
with the foreign exchange risk, for instance, required linking the domestic
prices of cotton to international prices; there is no evidence that this
was ever contemplated.
8.03     Bank supervision of the first cotton project was intense at the
startup and regular thereafter. Supervision reports are strong on physical
implementation detail and provide a clear picture of project implementation
as it advanced. Supervision of the second project was equally intense at
startup, with regular half-yearly missions until 1986, when responsibility
for the supervision of the project transferred to Kinshasa, with the
appointment of an Agricultural Country Officer (author of the present
report) in the Bank Resident Mission.



- 24 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01     The experience with the Bank's two cotton projects in Zaire
provides rather grim reading. Domestic demand for cotton as confirmed by
the new investments and modernization of the textile industry and the
advantages which cotton offers as a source of revenue to smallscale farmers
w$il, however, mean that cotton, in spite of the numerous setbacks, will
remain a priority in Government's agricultural development strategy.. The
experience of the Government and IDA in the execution of these projects
provides lessons on how to address the problems of the subsector in the
future.
9.02     On the optimistic end of the scale, privatization of cotton
marketing and transformation has introduced commercial criteria for the
development of the subsector. Signs of improvement in cotton company
management are beginning to show with ESTAGRICOXand CODENORD. Furthermore,
with the strong devaluation of the Zairian currency, domestic cotton has
again become internationally competitive and a sound basis of expansion
exists provided that supply, pricing and transport problems can be
overcome. On the less optimistic end of the scale, important problems
facing the cotton companies remain similar today as to when the projects
were conceived. The shortage of foreign exchange for the replacement of
equipment and rolling stock and the purchase of spare parts for the
antiquarian ginneries represents a permanent problem for management. The
deterioration of the road network and the diminishing volume of public
resources available to fund cotton roads and extension add further
complications to promoting increased production. The lack of emphasis
given to the design and implementation of dynamic cotton extension systems
is also a factor restraining production. Above all, the application of an
adequate producer price policy by the cotton companies and the concomitant
mobilization of timely cotton purchasing credit are priority measures to
stimulate regular planting by smallholder cotton producers. Their solution
depends on the mobilization of resources by the Government, the ability of
the textile companies to stand by price agreements fixed on a firm basis
and the willingness of the banking sector to continue to devote a
significant proportion of scarce credit to the production of a single crop.
9.03     Any new project in support of the subsector needs to take these
aspects into consideration and be prepared to back up the financial
responsibility of the State in infrastructure maintenance and in the
financing of agricultural extension services, as well as in the application
of remunerative price formulae for cotton planters and for the cotton
companies. Such lines of credit as may be mobilized for the cotton
companies must take into account investors experience in Zaire over the
past decade and the consequent reluctance to accept terms and conditions of
fundLng which will exacerbate the risk involved with any new investment.
Successful future projects in support of the subsector will also be keenly
dependent on a high level of competent management within each of the cotton
companies. Good management involves a high initial investment cost. A
formula will need to be developed whereby grant-funded technical assistance
can be provLded to the companies for the next phase of a new investment
program. CODENORD has already succeeded in mounting such an arrangement in
conjunction with the French Fund for Aid and Cooperation. Similar



- 25 -
arrangements should bo encouragod for the other companies, particularly
COTONZAZS, for whom the departure of the project technical asstance team
has had severe implications for production and profitability. And finally
the intensifLcation of efforts to introduce improved extension managoent
systems, such as the Training and Visit system introduced uader Cr.
1264-ZR, should continue.



- 27 -
-'                                                                ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1 of 3
Republic of Zaire
Caisse de Stabilisation Cotonni4re
Kinshasa, May 8, 1990
Our ref.: CSCo/03/A.2.1/29498
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
c/o UB Resident Mission, Kinshasa
Sublect: Zaire: First and Second Cotton Rehabilitation Projects
(Credits 660-ZR/1264-ZR)
Preliminary-Proiect Completion ReRort
Dear Sir:
We acknowledge receipt of your letter of March 6, 1990 on the
above-referenced subject, for which we thank you.
Please find attached our comments on the preliminary Project
Completion Report.
Sincerely,
/I/  Ir. PELO YI BAMBA               /s/  Ir.  KIBANGUIA ASOYO
Acting Technical Director            Acting General Manager



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 3
- 28 -
Comments on the Proiect ComDleticn Re2ort
for the First and Second Cotton Rehabittation Proiects
These comments fall into two parts. The first part points out
errors or mistakes--these are identified with (.) and the corrections with (*)
--and the second part contains comments of a general nature.
1.    Errors or mistakes
Para. 1.01. line 4:
(.)   . ..which has been almost exclusively produced...
(*)   .. .which has been exclusively produced...
Para. 1.05 (b). subheading (iv): There is no reason to include this item, as
the compulsory cotton cultivation laws ceased to exist when agricultural
product prices were liberalized in 1987.
Para. 1.01. line 2: ...a peak of 180,000 tons... (French text: 188,000
tonnes).
Para, 2.01. line 1:  .. .a record crop.. .of 180,000 tons...
These figures should be made the same: either 188,000 or 180,000.
(T.N.: The mistake being pointed out here is in fact due to an error in the
French version of the PCR.)
Para. 3.04. lines 6-7:
(.)   ... ranging from 17,000 to 18,000 tons of seed cotton.  (French text:
coton-fibre.)
(*)    .. ranging from 17,000 to 18,000 tons of seed cotton.
(T.N.: Here again, the mistake being pointed out is due to an error in the
French version of the PCR, where "seed cotton" was translated as coton-fibre
instead of coton-graine.)
Para. 3.06. line 6:
(.)   SUTEXCO
(*)   SOTEXCO
Para. 4.15. lines 15 and 17:
...12,500 tons of cotton... seed cotton or cotton fiber?
...19,000 tons of seed cotton. (French text: coton-fibre.) This latter
figure is clearly incorrect, for a ginning out-turn of 36X would result in
64,800 tons of cotton fiber from the record crop of 180,000 tons, not 19,000
tons as indicated. (T.N.: Same source of error as described under para.
3.04.)
Para. 4.26. line 5:
(.) Department of Agricultural Economics at Kisangani...
(*) Department of Agricultural Economics in the IFA (UNAZA) at Yangambi...



ATTACHMENT 1
- 29 -                    Page 3 of 3
Para. 5.05. ling 7:
...from 23,000 to 55,000 tons... (indicate whether seed cotton or cotton fiber
is intended here).
Para. 5.Q7. lines 5-6:
...from about 26,000 tons to 55,000 tons of seed cotton. (French text: coton-
fibre.) (LL&: Same source of error as described under para. 3.04.)
Para. 5.19. line 8:
(.)   ...turnover tax (CCA)...  (French text:  CLA.)
(*)   ... turnover tax (CCA)...
(L.L.: Here again, the mistake being pointed out is in the French version of
the PCR.)
General comments
Generally speaking, the report covers all of the factors involved
in the fAilure of the two projects. There are, however, a number of
Additional factors that we should like to see mentioned. These are as
follows:
*     Both projects were essentially financial in nature, i.e., they were
designed to provide the cotton companies with the foreign exchange that
was simply not available at the time. However, the way in which the
credit was structured gave the projects a suicidal aspect (exchange risk
borne by the beneficiaries).
*     In an attempt to counteract the credit's suicidal aspect, CSCo
approached OGEDEP on a number of occasions with a request for immediate
'etmbursement in convertible zaires at the rate for the day.
Unfortunately, all of these requests were turned down.
*     Although CSCo was to represent the Government's interests in this
credit, it was unable to play the role described in para. 5.06 (page
13), as the credit beneficiaries entered into agreements directly with
the World Bank's representatives. CSCo thus had to limit itself to the
administrative side of the credit, and was unable to effectively express
its opinion on the nature of certain outlays.
*     No concerted policy line was followed for procurement of various items
of equipment. Purchases were effected on a case-by-case basis with pro
forma invoices And World Bank approval.
*     The report mentions massive FL 480 imports that put a stop to purchases
of local cotton just at the time the two projects were taking shape. It
is thus perfectly understandable that these imports undermined the
effect of the projects and, in more general terms, all of the efforts
undertaken within the subsector.
*     The report makes no mention of any physical audits designed to verify
that equipment ordered actually reached its destination.



- 31 _
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 1 of 2
MOUVEMENT POPULAIRE DE LA REVOLUTION
Republic of Zaire
Department of Planning
Directorate for the Productive Sectors
Kinshasa, April 26, 1990
No. 082/DP/DSP/TMM/mk/90.-
Subject: Acknowledgement of Recei2t
To:   Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Donaldson:
This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter of March 16
transmitting the draft project completion report for the First and Second
Cotton Rehabilitation Projects (Credits 660-ZR/1264-ZR), for which I thank
you.
I attach a number of observations arising from examination of this
document.
We trust that these comments will reach you safely.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Tansia Molende Monkoy
Director



ATTACHMENT 2
Page 2 of 2
-32 -
Comments on the drgft completion reRort
for the First and Second Cotton Rehabilitation Proiects
Examination of the document gives rise to the following observations:
The report shows that, despite the efforts of the Zairian Government,
the World Bank and the Belgian cooperation agency, the two cotton
projects failed to achieve an increase in cotton production in Zaire.
Cotton production declined by almost 50 percent (cf. the table on
page 15).
The report analyzes the various domestic problems, but does not
emphasize international market factors, which were unfavorable
throughout the period of execution of these two projects.
No overall feasibility study was conducted for procurement.
CSCo did not play the full role expected of it as detailed in paragraph
5.06 on page 13. Whereas CSCo was intended to represent the
Government's interest in the credit, the beneficiaries entered into
agreements directly with the World Bank's representatives. Thus CSCo
served as a letter box rather than as a consulting firm.
Paragraph 1.05 (b), item (iv):  There is no reason to include this item
as the compulsory cotton cultivation laws ceased to exist when
agricultural product prices were liberalized in 1983.
(T.N.:  An apparent discrepancy between "peak crop of 188,000 tons" on
page 1, paragraph 1.01, line 2, and "180,000 tons" on page 3, paragraph
2.01, line 1, is due to a transcription error in the French version of
the PCR.)
Page 4, paragraph 3.06, penultimate line:  SUTEXCO should be corrected
to SOTEXCO.
Done in Kinshasa, April 26, 1990



C-ME ROONN    ARE                 9                           20                         2i                          22-                         23
~ ~~eE-V' 4  PA I          S                                                                           ZAIRE
GASON5'  ;X            *IWNnflO          0L,O  20  30s 40  SI  610                  COTTON   REHABILITATION   PROJECT
j) t^_,<E              sullU"aS          o0o10 20 30 40 50 60 70 E0 90 100
NO 50    >   4    )        Z                 KILOMETERS                                        Pro1ePt Area Boundary
a          r-i....                                                                            US  L       z *5Cotton Ginnerims and Reference Numbers
- \  _    i z |  mJ    _t                                       -       Pnrnory Roads (RR..G. Priorityl
Secondory Roads (R.I.G. Second Prioity)
ANGOLA    r--      ) IC                                                              --       Secondary Rood Rehobilitotion
j' ' ~~~~~~~~~~~NRural Roodis
A___1______       W                                                            Mojor Bridge Construction
bole      SI   Bongi         _                          Other Bridges - Repairs
-S5S  ,9                                                                                                 ;F8   Roilwoys r
<              gt (t~~~~~D~   ButrJ. \%                       Riwers                                    #                         vJ
%   g                e  Gob  M B7   5 *1t                                                                                          C --~~~~ Pnevince Prc,,ice Bendurie
d                         H8        RobakobaaBI
G   t b  4- ,II
r f '        +^1 "- 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~id



i4  CHAD:, SUDAN4  {  CENTRAL           AFRICAN          REPUBLIC
I'   r'   c~NHADA.EP. SUAN
GA6ON                                                                                              K/&41 I;_ ,            
Ano,rjc Ce,
NIGERAG OA BON/ ,/ j.1,                                                                                            TA        " 
er -J)                ig W"            ¢                                                                       DAN 
'L-;N AFRRl' \"WUI II
PEOPLE'S REP. OF = \ oZI
T(NG   Mban,a N0                                               1          >ANZN
ANGOLA A                                      I                                        IL
OBW4.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~4
GAtlni                           0  GMAN OOWA
PEOPLESREP.OF                  o       3    0
THE CONOTNGRDUTINO   
At/ t    )               ~~ot  t^Jions      -, I                                                             A   B
B               OOLZ zoo   xo    °°                  r2
t         ,v               "1               gr            | K 



% NIG.R stJ        fi-.        CENTRA  RIAN RePUBLiC           ._        __.           SUDA
Li #   rSCE.1\    ;    _ _     *        N             t,t_ 
I, ..GE. 1. t  I "I  L                                          S U D A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
'ZAIRE                          CZ _
'.SCH  SU'" -. -a-- --}-"W                                                               :,'C
JFM   'SRERE  ,  OFlTHEC ) NGOU
MONG~~~~~~~~
GABON                                                     i,>/-_ x-(SU ,,,, NORD- t
-'                           t    COTON-ZAIRE  AOTO NNIERE
/  PEO45RE'SREP.O~~~~~THEFUTUE AREAO
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N1
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
, E , _ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                   R< Uy                         BURUNDI ,  , 
GABON    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SD 
ZARE              FUTURE AREAOL C  FqH4ERE
KWILU           Cc        
t-   ZAiRfEld1<_V at A5
CAT RACTSI   RA~'DUNDU   KS
,~~~~~  ~~~~  ~ ~  ~      ~      GRICO~~~~~~~(COTONEST)
-GAAAA - InASUrotr31Ebundur|s  AlA _ _ _ C   Z;TAN
o   ~  im                                                                     c.-3 AGOA



IBRD 15030
lo,                                                                  Atto ~  [N,A                                                                OKsgei-                          r    .TWekMF BRUARI 19
Lose.                   K  I V                      R E               I 0  N  s0g0  ~~~~~~Z     I    E R~  N
COTONIEREONDIR
L&kone  Dates,                                                                                                                                                                ESTAGAIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~AG IC   ( O (CTO NEST)j
0  N    ~  ~                                            lnee, o  pRaIoE a
Rairoades.ucfnn
kahanisore                           *----. ~~~~~~regoal boundarye
......... .s,h-ran,nnn  boundarie
K,t.h, ~~~~~~~~~~  %  ~~                                 -lArersail boundaries
oaame~   o~    RoasoEoaliprac
-       W04088. .5.0 .nO.,..0 Os   <~~~~~~~~~ajor rvers.b
'4  ~ ~                 C                                                                lb           nina  -Nkulu                                                           AN CLDb L-
M..                               60                                                                                                                                                                     RegiorKO boundaries0escanh ipi ore c
To Sundae'                  To Ku ice 0                     OK   Kern/ire /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- --        r - -                                                     Su -reioa bonare



IBRD 15O31tRI
T, Yoli-9o   2'4'                  hc ,er,7/                                                                  1                                               0
C ENTRAL    A FR I CANE P -U B LflC                                                                                                                                                                               Z-A IR E
SOTEXCO
PoKe,,                                                                 V                                     S    ~~             ~~ ~~                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  D  A  N  LOCATIONS OF GINNERIES
OJ~/0bO                                                                                                                                Ginneries, functioning
Ft                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ginneries. not functioning but
B  A  S  .1/    S                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in operational condition
1~~~~~40  -                                                                                                                                                                         0      Gmneries, not operational~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTINA  ---  0 Ginris,nt peaioa
Ango    ,~r   Oo,end,                                                                                                          -    SOTEXCO argo boundory
-         Roadn of general importaince
4                                               ongoro                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads of local importance
*  Amadi    DU.ngu                                             orodj.                                   ------ Railroads
*                                                                                                                         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Major rivers
crc  \----' bLot  Anooonoto  TI..                                                                                                                         -.--.  Region boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~egon  ouclaie
Ag.  Tit.  M.k-                   n~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sub region boundaries
- -International boundaties
~~~~~ ~~~H  A  U  T  -0 oR                                                                                                E R    G   I  0 N
h.                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 0  20  40  60  80  100  120  140  160
Al                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES 0   20  40  60  to  IT0
Tao,.A                  '                       A~                                                                                                                                 ' 0000O,o.dt o Wos80 000 .AoooO,oUV00//c
Toftoeode  DjoluCHD 
Be   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-                /CENTRAL AFRICAN\
AMEROONk AR IRE             e Nu.o      '
THE   MAIKO                                                                Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA19



