=gI    y #!  ; "             Document of
FILE C             reX                  The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1869a-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENI' OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
September 8, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Unit: Zaire)
Before March 12, 1976
US$1         =          Z 0.5
Z 1          =          US$2.0
Z 1,000      =          US$2,000
Z 1,000,000  =          US$2,000,000
After March 12, 1976 *
Z 1          =          US$1.15
Z 1,000      =          US$1,150
Z 1,000,000  =          US$1,150,000
Borrower's Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AGCI)         AdminLstration Generale de Cooperation
au Developpement
(General Administration for Development Aid)
(Belgiuim)
CFDT          Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement
des Fibres Textiles
(French Company for the Development of
Textil.e Fibers)
FAC           Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(Fund for Aid and Cooperation)
GECAMINES     Generale des Carrieres et des Mines
(Government Mining Company)
INERA         Institut National des Etudes et de
Recherches Agronomiques
(National Institute for Agronomic Study and Research)
ONAFITE;X     Office National des Fibres Textiles
(National Textile Fiber Authority)
ONATRA        Office National des Transports
(National Transport Bureau)
OR            Office des Routes
(Bureau of Roads)
*The parity of the zaire was realigned.to zaire 1 = SDR 1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR A
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$8 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a cotton rehabilitation project.
Most of the proceeds of the credit would be relent to ONAFITEX (The National
Textile Fiber Authority) for 15 years, including four years of grace, at
an interest rate of 6 percent per annum. The project would be cofinanced
by Belgium in an amount of US$3.1 million, to be given as a grant to the
Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Zaire in April-May 1974, and its
report entitled "The Economy of Zaire" (No. 821-ZR), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 8, 1975. An updating economic mission was
conducted in May-June 1976, and its report is now being finalized. Country
data are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire, the third largest country in Africa, is rich in mineral,
agricultural, forestry and energy resources, but the country is among the
poorest in terms of per capita income. Because of the large share of copper
in total exports the economy is vulnerable to changes in world economic
conditions. The key constraints to development are: (a) the shortage of
skilled manpower and the overall weakness of the institutions with direct
development responsibilities; (b) the very poor social conditions, particular-
ly poor health and low nutrition in both the urban and rural milieus; and
(c) the deterioration of the agricultural sector and of transport infra-
structure.
4.        Few countries suffered as much disruption and chaos as did
Zaire in the first 6-7 years of its independence. Political order and
stability were established in 1967 and only then could the Government begin
to promote economic development by initiating a set of policy measures.
GDP grew by about 10 percent (in real terms) annually in the subsequent
years. In the same period, government savings rose to US$110 million in
1970, compared with a deficit in 1966, while capital expenditures increased
considerably. Zaire's resource surplus grew from US$15 million in 1966-67,
to US$60 million in 1969-70. These favorable developments were due, in
part, to rising copper prices, which increased by over 25 percent between
1967 and 1970 (12 percent in real terms), and to an increase in copper
production, which rose from 317,000 tons in 1966 to 385,000 tons in 1970.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        In 1970-74 growth slowed to about 5 percent.    Possibilities of
growth based on unutilized capacity in the manufacturing and service
sectors gradually narrowed. Government policies favoring investment in
modern infrastructure (power, civil aviation, construction works) consumed
resources that could have been made available to more directly productive
sectors. Lack of appropriate project evaluation and selection processes
resulted in the initiation of investment projects whose return would not
help the servicing of the external debt contracted for their financing.
Moreover, these projects absorbed a large part of the country's limited
management resources, and reduced its capacity to borrow for economically
justifiable projects. Neglect of agriculture and particularly adverse pricing
policies led to declining agricultural production, and to further diversion
of resources to finance food imports for urban consumption.
6.        The year 1974 brought with it the beginning of the economic crisis
which the country is currently experiencing. Growth of government expendi-
tures accelerated progressively from an annual rate of about 5 percent in
1971-72 to 26 percent in 1973, but in 1974 they shot up by 66 percent, far
beyond the resources that could be mobilized domestically. Investment, most
of which is public investment, remained high at about 28 percent of GDP, but
the national savings rate fell from 23 to 20 percent. Overspending and dis-
regard for the budget were no longer limited to certain government departments,
but were practiced by most. The overall deficit in 1974 reached Z 210 million,
almost three and a half times the 1973 deficit. This, together with the ex-
pansion of credit to enterprises, led to severe price inflation, which reached
30 percent in 1974. In the same year, household consumption in real terms
fell by over 10 percent.
7.        The structure of the country's external trade had been weakened
by the decline of export agriculture starting in the early 1970s.    The
prevailing exchange rate increasingly favored the expansion of import demand,
while wiping out most incentives for exports. Attempts by Government in 1973
and 1974 to transfer foreign-owned assets in agriculture, industry and commerce
to private or public Zairian ownership, without adequate advance preparation,
further disrupted the modern sectors of production and distribution.    The
country's dependence on copper exports increased.    Although in 1974 the copper
price was more than double the 1972 level, the current deficit on the balance
of payments, US$330 million,was almost as high as the deficit in 1972 and
even when it became clear that copper prices were falling, no anti-cyclical
reserve policy was introduced.   The trade balance was indeed positive, but
there was an enormous deficit on factor and non-factor services. Even on
trade balance, the surplus was more apparent than real, as exports included
some US$148 million worth of monetary gold sales. The country's external
borrowing increased by an unprecedented 60 percent to US$490 million, while
its international reserves were drawn down by 40 percent or about US$90
million.
8.        A breakdown in budgetary discipline, unplanned investment activity
and uncontrolled external borrowing in 1974 thus contributed to the mounting
difficulties. These difficulties were aggravated by external factors such
as the drastic fall in copper prices in the second half of 1974, and



continuing increases in the cost of imports, resulting in a deterioration of
the terms of trade.   The Angolan war also pushed government expenditures
upwards and disrupted established traffic patterns to and from the copper
region of Shaba. This combination of government policies and external factors
led directly to the severe economic and financial crisis which the country has
been experiencing since early 1975.
9.        In 1975, especially in the second half of the year, the country
was faced with a severely confining situation. GDP was declining at the
rate of 3 percent, and per capita consumption in real terms by about 8 per-
cent. Unemployment was growing. The country's international reserves
declined rapidly.   Imports of basic necessities were reduced and widespread
scarcities were appearing in the country.    Service payments on much of the
external debt due in the second half of the year could not be made for lack of
foreign exchange.
10.       Zaire's medium and long term external debt outstanding at the
end of 1975, including undisbursed, was provisionally estimated at US$2.6
billion as compared to US$760 million three years earlier.     The disbursed
portion of the debt at the end of 1975 was about US$1.5 billion, of which
US$55 million was owed to the Bank Group. Service payments falling due in 1975
amounted to about US$240 million.
11.       To deal with the worsening economic and financial situation, the
Government attempted in early 1975 to reduce the budget deficit, to restrict
the expansion of credit and to allocate scarce foreign exchange to priority
payments, i.e., service of external debt, transfer of expatriate salaries,
and import of essential raw materials.    In addition, the Government contracted
a loan for US$50 million from Abu Dhabi for balance of payments support,
and drew about US$90 million from the IMF, about one half of which was secured
under the 1974 oil facility.
12.       Given the size of the difficulties inherited from the earlier
years, these measures could only have partial success. Overall government
expenditures in 1975 amounted to Z 663 million, about 11 percent less than
in 1974. Due to a large shortfall in government revenues, however, the
deficit remained high: Z 230 million, compared with Z 210 million in 1974.
Expansion of credit to enterprises was substantial.     The foreign exchange
allocation system failed to provide for the servicing of medium and long
term debt on schedule, and shortage of raw materials, spare parts and other
essential imports slowed down domestic production and caused hardship for
consumers.
13.       Imports of goods and services in 1975 are estimated at about
US$1,700 million, or about 9 percent lower than in 1974 in current prices.
The current account deficit in 1975 was, however, larger than in 1974: US$450
million, as compared to US$330 million, mainly because of lower copper prices.
Despite substantial amounts of capital inflows and accumulation of commercial
arrears, the country's international reserves fell from about US$200 million
in December 1974 to US$90 million in December 1975, representing less than one
month of imports of goods and services.



- 4 -
14.       In November 1975, the Government entered consultations with the IMF
on a comprehensive Stabilization Program. This program was subsequently
adopted and, on March 22, 1976, the IMF approved purchases of foreign exchange
under the enlarged first credit tranche and compensatory financing facility
which, together with the drawing of the 1975 oil facility, amounted to about
US$152 million. The program covers a one-year period and its implementation
will be monitored by a high-level Stabilization Committee comprising the
Director of the Office of the President, the Governor of the Central Bank,
and the Ministers for Finance and Public Enterprise. The program's three main
objectives are to reduce the expansion of domestic demand, to transfer real
resources to the export sector and to stimulate the growth of production.
15.       In order to dampen the expansion of domestic demand, the Stabiliza-
tion Program provides for a budget deficit in 1976 of Z 60 million (US$70
million at the new exchange rate), to be financed principally by a 13 percent
increase in domestic bank credit. Salary increases, including government
salaries, and expansion of credit to enterprises and households, would be
limited. The budget implies a nominal reduction in current expenditure in
1976 of 3.8 percent when compared to current expenditure in 1975.     In the
realm of budget control and management, no specific measures were taken. In
the credit area, the Bank of Zaire turned away from a policy of indirect
controls and reinstated credit ceilings by bank and by sector. Commercial
banks were no longer authorized to extend credit to enterprises with negative
working capital, except with specific Bank of Zaire authorization.
16.       In order to improve the balance of payments situation, the national
currency previously linked to the US dollar at the rate of Z 1 = US$2, was
pegged to the SDR on March 12, 1976, at the central rate of Z 1 = SDR 1,
implying a reduction in the value of the zaire of 42 percent in terms of the
SDR. Foreign exchange controls were maintained in order to limit the balance
of payments deficit to US$100 million at the new exchange rate. The system of
import controls introduced in 1975 has been retained, and deposit requirements
were imposed on importers, ranging from zero in the case of raw materials and
spare parts to 50 percent on food and pharmaceuticals, and 100 percent on
other items. Some firms, which could not continue operation due to lack of
foreign exchange, received a special allocation and GECAMINES was allowed to
retain half of its gross foreign exchange earnings. On the other hand all
exporters were instructed to deposit 10 percent of their foreign exchange
receipts in a special account abroad to be used for debt servicing.
17.       As part of the Stabilization Program, the Government also announced
that it would seek debt rescheduling from its creditors on the basis of a
new external debt policy. The Government met with representatives of major
creditor countries in April and June under the auspices of the Paris Club
chaired by France, in order to deal with medium and long term loans given by
or with government guarantees. At the June meeting the major creditor
governments agreed to reschedule part of Zaire's external public debt due in
1975 and 1976. Payment of arrears for 1975 and for the first semester of 1976
were rescheduled over ten years with payment to start in 1977. Negotiations
on the rescheduling of privately held debt, which accounts for a considerable



- 5 -
portion of the total, were held in London in the first week of this monthl
between major private creditors, mainly foreign banks, and the Government of
Zaire. The Government's case as stated to the banks in this first meeting
appears to have been well received and additional meetings are now scheduled
for the end of this month and mid October.
18.       In order to stimulate the growth of production, the Government
has raised producer prices for certain agricultural products so as to reflect
market conditions and provide incentives to producers.     Examples include
maize (60 percent), palm fruit (100 percent), cattle (200 percent), seed
cotton (100-200 percent) and cotton fiber (140 percent). Retail prices for a
wide range of locally manufactured goods were also increased, including those
for meat (200 percent) , bread (50 percent), sugar (20 percent), fresh fish
(100 percent), petroleum products (40-75 percent), water (50-100 percent) and
electricity (30-50 percent).   Improvements in the operating position of state
enterprises were also initiated through an increase in the supply of imported
spare parts and raw materials, and clarification of issues relating to owner-
ship and management. As part of the Stabilization Program, the Government had
already offered in November 1975 to return 40 percent of the shares of na-
tionalized firms to the original owners, and declared its willingness to
consider transferring management responsibility to them. Negotiations between
former owners and the Stabilization Committee are underway with a view to
resolving the practical issues of implementation.
19.       Although it is too early to form a judgment on the imp:Lementation
of the Stabilization Program, it already appears that the budget deficit
in 1976 will be considerably larger than the Z 60 million provided for in
the Stabilization Program. Some of this stems from lower revenue, due in
part to an expected tax rebate of about Z 60 million to be accorded to
GECAMINES, but the deficit stems mostly from higher expenditure. The 1976
current budget envisages a small reduction in nominal terms in expenditures
for salaries, goods and services compared to actual expenditures in 1975,
but during the first quarter of 1976, such expenditure was running 20 per-
cent higher than in the corresponding period in 1975.     This overrun is likely
to grow during the rest of the year, due to the rapidly rising cost of local
goods and services and the exchange rate adjustment, which makes foreign
exchange 72 percent more expensive, thereby increasing the local currency
equivalent of debt service and much of capital budget expenditure.      Even if
budgetary expenditure exceeds the budgeted level, domestic inflation, estimated
at about 45 percent, will lead in real terms to a decline in government
consumption in 1976. The Stabilization Program also aimed at limiting expan-
sion of credit to the private sector to 35 percent over the previous year, and
compliance on this point should be less difficult as this was the rate of
expansion reached during the first quarter of 1976. As for the program's
other two objectives of diversifying the export base and increasing production,
especially from agriculture and industry, progress-can only be measured in the
long term.
20.       The major immediate issue which the Government of Zaire faces in its
task of stabilizing the economy is the establishment of an orderly decision



- 6 -
making mechanism for both local currency and foreign exchange expenditures.
The authorities have already taken difficult decisions concerning exchange
rate policy and subsequent price adjustments.    What remains now is the
diificult task of adjusting the functioning of institutions to a lower
level of resource availability. Investment decisions should be made wiLh a
clear view of priorities and available financial means.
,1.       The recent stand-bv agreement with the IMF, and the creation of
a Stabilization Committee to oversee the implementation of the program are
significant steps toward improved economic management. To correct the basic
imbalances of Lhe economy and to have the development process affect the
lives of most Zairians wiLl require continuous efforts.
22.       Assuming the effectiveness of these corrective measures, Zaire's
export earnings and government revenues will continue to be heavily dependent
on the price of copper. After a decline in 1975, world copper prices are
expected Lo recover substantially during the remainder of the decade, although
in real terms they are unlikely to reach the average of the 1970-74 levels.
Zaire's export earnings are expected, nevertheless, to grow by about 19 per-
cent per annum in 1976-80 in current terms, and about 4 percent in real
terms, mainly on account of the maturation of current expansion investments.
Apart from copper, Zaire has the potential to produce many commodities for
which market prospects are favorable:    tropical woods, many agricultural
products, and several minerals, including petroleum.
23.       Assuming that copper prices will average US$0.67/lb. in 1976 and
US$1.20 in 1980, gross capital inflows are tentatively projected at about
US$600 million a year in 1976-80, compared with a yearly average of US$530
million in 1973-75. The debt service ratio was 23 percent in 1974; with
rescheduling it dropped to 14 percent in 1975, and with the assumed capital
inflow, it would rise to about 17 percent in 1980. In view of the country's
shortage of foreign exchange and current budget deficits, we have encouraged
Zaire to seek concessional terms for project financing, including some
financing of local expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
24.       From 1969 through 1975, Zaire received eleven IDA credits totaling
US$145.5 million for transport, development finance company operations,
water supply, agriculture and education projects.     The Bank has also extended
grants totaling US$400,000 as a contribution toward the cost of two plan-
ning assistance missions in Zaire. In 1975, a Bank loan of US$100 million
for the GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project was made.     It provides for special
repayment arrangements tied to GECA1INES' mineral export receipts. In April
of this year, the Executive Directors approved a Second Education Project
(US$21 million) which will be signed after the Government takes certain
measures to strengthen the design unit now proposed for the project.      The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 participation in the Societe Financiere de



- 7 -
Developpement (SOFIDE), Lhe local development finance company, is seeking
to identify additional projects in Zaire suitable for its financing.
25.       Until now, Bank Group assistance to Zaire has been small compared
to the needs of the country. An important limiting factor has been the in-
adequate project preparation and implementation capability of the Government,
but this constraint is slowly being overcome. The Bank Group's share of
Zaire's total commitments is about 8 percent, its share of disbursed loans
about 4 percent and of current debt service slightly more than 1 percent.
Furthermore, through the cofinancing arrangements for the GECAMINES Project,
the Bank Group took a major step in 1975 toward assuring that other external
capital assistance available to Zaire was effectively directed toward high
priority projects.
26.       Disbursements on IDA credits, which were slow for a long time, have
recently accelerated and amounted to about US$45.5 million as of July 31,
1976. Project implementation has been poor, due primarily to the country's
inadequate supply of trained manpower and management capacity. For example,
execution of the First Education Project (1971) was delayed because of ad-
ministrative weakness, and faulty selection and coordination of foreign
consultants. Cost overruns on this project will require that it be reduced
in scope. Also, the technical assistance component of the Second Highway
Project (1972) was poorly implemented and the civil works only started last
year, due to the shortage of experienced local personnel, difficulties in
recruiting key expatriate experts, delays in procurement and in the implemen-
tation of organizational reforms. On the other hand, certain other entities
which have benefited from IDA credits and Bank loans, the Development Finance
Company (SOFIDE), the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) and GECAMINES, are
executing projects in an acceptable manner. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of July 31, 1976,
and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
27.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution-building. The Zairian Development Finance Company (SOFIDE),
was established with assistance from IFC and IDA in 1970. The River 'irans-
port Project (1971) helped strengthen the agencies concerned with waterways,
i.e., the Office National des Transports (ONATRA), the Regie des Voies
Fluviales (RVF), and the Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM). The Railway and
River Transport Project (1975) continued this assistance and provided funds
for a major management training program for ONATRA. The First, Second
and Third Highway Projects (1969, 1972 and 1975) provided technical assistance
to establish and operate the Bureau of Roads.   The Education Project (1972)
included a manpower survey to furnish data for a review of the educational
system, and the Livestock Project (1974) helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority, which has since acquired responsibilities
beyond the project area.



- 8 -
28.       The Bank Group's main efforts are directed towards issisLing in
the rehabilitation and improvement of transport, agriculture and education,
all high priority sectors in which the Bank Group should be able to make
a contribution to institution-building. Lesser emphasis is given to develop-
ment finance company operations and water supply.    This concenLration should
assist the Government to design and implement appropriate poLicies
in these critical sectors. In mosL projects this will mean providing for
transitional technical assistance and training.
29.       Lack of transport is the major physical impediment to the country's
development. The Government has placed considerable emphasis on the improve-
miient of its river/rail arterial network and the Association is helping to
finance both studies and new investments designed to extend and improve
this system. At the same time, roads are essential for inter-regional com-
merce, agricultural development and as a feeder network for the river/rail
system.  Agriculture has received insufficient attention from the Government.
Preference should be given in the short run to increasing agricultural produc-
tion, including the development of large scale plantations, while the capacity
to implement rural development projects is established in the Government.
In line with this approach, a second livestock project involving smallholders
in the northeastern part of Zaire has been appraised.     A palm oil project,
focusing on rehabilitation of existing plantations to meet rising internal
demand, is also being prepared.    In education, there is a need for curriculum
reform, and emphasis on non-formal and vocational education, especially
agricultural training.   In this area our purpose will be to assist the Govern-
ment in framing appropriate policies through project formulation.      In industry,
we propose to continue our support for the local development finance company
(SOFIDE). In the area of public utilities, our assistance would be directed
toward assuring broader access to these essential facilities and strengthening
the executing agencies.
30.       An expansion of the Bank Group's activities in Zaire will be pos-
sible only if substantial efforts toward improving the country's economic
management are initiated and sustained progress is achieved.     Considering
the state of disintegration within the country in the early 1960s, the
political and economic cohesion attained since then has been noteworthy.
However, the lack of a comprehensive investment plan, the rapid rise in
public expenditures and external borrowing, the present shortage of reserves,
the tenuous debt service situation of the Government, and the insufficient
allocation of resources to agriculture are serious problems which have to
be corrected if the overall economic potenLial of the country is to be
realized. The Government is aware of the pressing need to take corrective
action and has, in cooperation with the IM4F,initiated a Stabilization Program
discussed above.   The Bank is also assisting the country through the UNDP
Planning Assistance Project, for which the Bank is Executing Agency.



-9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
31.       The agricultural potential of Zaire is considerable.     The country's
geographical location astride the Equator and the differences in elevation
within the country result in several climates, which makes possible a variety
of cropping patterns.   Approximately 70 percent of the population derives
its livelihood directly from agriculture, and much of the remaining 30 percent
is indirectly dependent on it for employment.    Zaire also has the world's
largest reserve of tropical hardwoods, and fishing could be developed in the
eastern lakes.
32.       There are, however, a number of constraints:     the quality of soils,
which is only average for tropical Africa; the great distances over which
goods have to be shipped; the lay-out of the transport system, which was
designed to facilitate the flow of minerals and plantation crops to ports
and the return haul of imports; the neglect of interregional connections,
especially between north and south; and the low density of population in
rural areas, which compounds the problem of distance mentioned above.      These
difficulties have been increased by the disruption of the transport and
marketing sysLem since independence.
33.       Agricultural production in Zaire is organized along dual lines con-
sisting, on the one hand, of traditional cash and subsistence farming (cassava,
maize, rice, plantain, groundnut, livestock, coffee and cotton) and, on the
other, large scale commercial agriculture (palm oil, rubber, sugar, coffee
and ranching). Family labor is the main input in the traditional sector and
women perform the bulk of the work, including planting and harvesting.      Land
ownership follows the tribal pattern in which the right to cultivate specific
plots is granted by the chief, but the crops produced are considered the
property of the farmer.   Per capita income in rural areas is estimated at
about US$25 per year as against US$140 for the country as a whole. In con-
trast, commercial agriculture consists mainly of large, capital-intensive
units employing modern concepts of crop husbandry and management. Palm oil,
coffee and rubber are the main export crops, while sugar and livestock
are produced for the domestic market.
34.       Until recently the Government gave low priority to the agricultural
sector, and as a consequence, it has deteriorated substantially since in-
dependence, causing in particular a massive rural exodus.     Recently output
has declined even further as a result of the zairianization and nationaliza-
tion measures of 1973 and 1974 and production is now far below 1960 figures.
In 1973 the agricultural sector accounted for only 15 percent of GDP and in
1974 agricultural exports were only 18 percent of total exports.     Production
of some commodities which the country used to export has decreased to the
extent that in a number of cases, such as palm oil and cotton, there will
soon be a need to import -to meet local demand unless the current decline is
arrested. On the other hand, food accounts for 13 percent of merchandise
imports. The effects of this situation on the balance of payments have been
serious.



- 10 -
35.       There are several additional problems facing agriculture in Zaire:
(a) extension and marketing services are grossly insufficient; (b) there is
a lack of competent management; (c) imported inputs are burdened with exces-
sive duties, and until very recently farm prices were set at levels which
provided no incentive to producers; (d) too little attention is paid to rural
education and training and, (e) applied research, once a strong aspect of
industrial agriculture in Zaire, has deteriorated to the point where much of
the plantation material is of inferior quality.
36.       Corrective action is urgently needed.    The Government has stated
its intention to give increased emphasis to agriculture in order to achieve
foodstuff self-sufficiency, to increase agricultural exports and to slow
the rural exodus. Under the Stabilization Program recently agreed with the
IMF, the Government committed itself to increase producer prices, and as
noted earlier, many producer prices have been raised, thus giving farmers an
incentive to increase production. It is also pledged under the Stabilization
Program to increase the share of budgetary appropriations allocated to the
agricultural sector, reorganize marketing agencies and methods, and improve
transport infrastructure.
Cotton
37.        First introduced in 1915 as a compulsory crop, cotton is today grown
on a large number of small farms throughout the country, usually in rotation or
together with food crops. It constitutes the main and often the only cash crop
for about 600,000 farm families, or one fifth of the active rural population.
It is by far the most extensively cultivated fiber in Zaire and by law farmers
are still required to grow cotton in certain areas adapted to cotton cultivation
along with their other crops.    Prior to independence in 1960, Zaire was an impor-
tant producer and exporter of cotton. In 1959, a total of 180,000 tons of seed
cotton were produced and 53,000 tons of cotton lint were sold on world markets.
During the first six years of independence, however, production fell sharply
to a low of 18,000 tons of seed cotton, making it necessary to import large
quantities of cotton in order to supply the domestic textile industry.      Since
then, seed cotton output increased steadily to 67,000 tons in 1973 but
declined to 50,000 in 1975 as a result of organizational difficulties of the
National Textile Fiber Authority (Office National des Fibres Textiles,
ONAFITEX). Exports of cotton fell to nominal levels in 1975 and this year
Zaire will import some cotton for its textile industry.
38.       ONAFITEX, a state-owned monopoly set up in 1971, is the successor
to the Belgian companies that had previously handled the buying, ginning and
marketing of cotton.   It is headed by a Director General and a Deputy Director
General, both appointed by the President and responsible to the State Commis-
sioner for Agriculture.   Control over ONAFITEX's operations is centralized at
the head office in Kinshasa, which consists of six departments (administrative,
financial, commercial, technical, agronomic and medical). There are five
regional directorates (Haut-Zaire, Equateur, Kasai, Shaba and Kivu) and two
zone directorates(Uvira and Sankuru) with a total staff of about 3,100 persons.



- 11 -
39.       ONAFITEX is mainly responsible for providing technical assistance
to farmers who grow fiber crops and for organizing their marketing, purchasing
the production from the farmers, transporting it to the ginneries and selling
the processed material to the local textile mills or for export.    However,
ONAFITEX has suffered from organizational weakness, especially a lack of
experienced management, poor financial control, inefficiency of extension
services and inadequate maintenance of vehicles. These difficulties have
been further aggravated by the poor condition of the road network.    ONAFITEX
has also been deficient in the organization of the buying and transport of
seed cotton and in providing technical advice, quality seed and insecticides.
As a result, there have been long delays between the harvest and the purchase
of the cotton, its transport to the ginneries and the sale of the fiber
to Zairian textile mills. Cotton producers have lost interest in growing
cotton and have either neglected it, so that yields have declined, or abandoned
cultivation altogether.
40.       To date, the Bank Group has financed only one project in the agri-
cultural sector in Zaire:   a Livestock Project (Credit 398-ZR, of June 21,
1973) designed to develop three large state-owned ranches in the Shaba region
and to help the National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). The project
was slow in getting started and has recently encountered severe difficulties
(see Annex II).  While the infrastructure part of the project has proceeded
well, herd increase has been delayed due to higher than normal animal
mortality.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project would help the Zairian Government to rehabilitate cotton
production in the Ubangi and the cotton-growing areas of the Mongala sub-
regions of the Equateur Region, located in the northwestern part of Zaire.
This region is divided into rainforest in the south and savannah in the north.
The only other major cash crop in the area is coffee, which is cultivated in
the rainforest area.   As the Equateur Region has suffered less from the
post-independence troubles than many other regions, its share of national
cotton production increased from 10-12 percent before independence to a high
of 20 percent. Cotton is planted in rotation by small farmers who devote
about 0.5 ha on average to its cultivation.
42.       The present project was prepared during 1974 by the FAO/IBRD Co-
operative Program on the basis of a pilot scheme begun in Ubangi in 1972
with French technical assistance. Although the project is highly localized,
the experience derived from it is expected to be utilized in other cotton
growing areas of Zaire. A Credit and Project Summary is in Annex III. An
appraisal mission visited Zaire in May 1975, and its report entitled "Appraisal
of the Zaire Cotton Rehabilitation Project"     (No. 1179-ZR dated (September 3,
1976) is being circulated separately.   Negotiations were heLd in Kinshasa from
June 28 to July 3, 1976, between representatives of the Govermnent, the Belgian
AGCD and IDA. The government delegation was led by Mr. Kayinga, MinisLer of



- 12 -
Agriculture, and included representatives of the Finance Department, the
Presidency, the Bank of Zaire, ONAFITEX and the Office des Routes.
Project Description
43.        In order to meet domestic demand for textiles, to increase cotton
exports and raise the earnings of small farmers, the Government intends to
rehabilitate cotton production.   The proposed project, which would benefit
about 84,000 farm families in the Equateur Region or 14 percent of the cotton-
growing population of Zaire, is part of this effort.     It is the first phase
of a long term effort to promote the cultivation of cotton and food crops
in Equateur Province. The emphasis in this project is on reorganizing the
buying, transporting and ginning operations of ONAFITEX in the project area
in order to give farmers the incentive to return to or intensify their
cultivation of cotton. It consists of the following parts:
(a) Development and improvement of the organizational,
financial and accounting systems and operations
of ONAFITEX's Equateur Regional Directorate
with the assistance of a management team
to be financed by the Government of Belgium;
(b) Procurement of trucks and vehicle maintenance
equipment, establishment of maintenance facilities
and training of mechanics;
(c) Procurement of equipment and supplies for a road
and bridge program;
(d) Establishment of improved agricultural extension
services and rehabilitation of a research station;
(e) Procurement of spare parts and equipment to rehabilitate
the existing ginneries; and
(f) Execution of studies necessary for further projects in
the cotton industry and assistance to ONAFITEX's national
headquarters to improve its administrative operations.
The project would be executed by ONAFITEX and the Office des Routes (Bureau of
Roads), an autonomous government agency which would be responsible for the
road component.
Transport and Marketing Services
44.        Delays in cotton buying and transport are presently a major dis-
incentive to cotton farmers in the project area. These delays are caused by
the inadequacy of the present cotton buying system.     The main causes are:



- 13 -
(i) unavailability of funds for the buying campaigns; and, (ii) lack of suf-
ficient and well maintained vehicles and of a passable road system.
45.       Under the project, the cotton buying system would be reorganized
under the direction of the Project Manager. Cotton buying would be carried
out by four mobile buying teams, operating by zone instead of throughout the
whole region. Sufficient funds will be advanced to the account of the
ONAFITEX Equateur Regional Office by October 31 and December 31 each year,
starting in 1976, for the purchase of seed cotton (Section 3.01 (b) (iv) of
the Credit Agreement). It is expected that implementation of the proposed
project would help to reduce the length of the purchasing campaigns in
EquaLeur from over 12 months to less than five months.
46.        ONAFITEX would be enabled to acquire enough vehicLes to transport
to the ginneries promptly after the harvest all the seed cotton produced in
the project area.   A Maintenance Supervisor would be recruited and spare
parts supplied to improve vehicle maintenance.    The main mechanical workshop
in Gemena and a secondary workshop in Businga would be renovated and
service stations would be established near the more isolated ginneries.
Roofing material would be supplied for the buying centers where the cotton
is stored after purchase.
Cinneries
47.       The project area has sufficient ginning capacity at present to
meet all the needs of the project, but the ginneries, which ONAFITEX inherited
from the Belgian cotton companies, have not been properly maintained for some
time and are in need of rehabilitation. Some of the ginnery facilities should
be replaced, while others need only repairs.    A complete inventory is underway
and orders for spare parts are being placed.    An Engineer to be recruited
under the project would assist in overhauling the ginneries and in retraining
staff in machinery maintenance. A Logistic and Supply Officer wouid also
ensure that adequate supplies of spare parts are kept in stock at all times,
and would train Zairian staff in spare parts management.
Roads and Bridges
48.        The network of roads linking the production areas, the ginning
plants and the main embarcation ports on the Ubangi and Zaire rivers is
relatively extensive and consists of low-standard earth roads which, with
proper maintenance, are adequate for the present volume of traffic (10 to
20 vehicles per day). These roads are, however, often impassable due to
lack of maintenance, flooding of access ramps to the bridges, and inter-
mittent ferry operations.
49.        In order to overcome these problems, the project provides for (a)
the rehabilitation of about 560 km of rural roads not presently maintained;
(b) the grading of about 1,200 km of secondary roads maintained by the Bureau
of Roads; (c) construction of one or two bridges, to be determined by a technical
study, over the Lua River or its tributaries to ensure a permanent link



- 14 -
between the northern .and western parLs of the project area; and (d) recon-
struction and repair of other smaller bridges.
50.       The road component of the project would be executed by the Bureau
of Roads with the guidance and assistance of ONAFITEX.     ONAFITEX would be
responsible for the procurement and maintenance of road equipment and the
review and approval oin consultation with the Associationlof road and bridge
programs, while the Bureau of Roads would carry them out physically. For this
purpose, the conclusion of a convention, satisfactory to the Association,
between ONAFITEX and the Bureau of Roads would be a condition of disbursement
for the road component. In addition, the Bureau of Roads would: (a) by
December 31, 1977, complete the staffing of its field engineer positions in
the project area and establish units in Gemena for the maintenance of ferries
and for carrying out the road component of the project; (b) carry out the
works included in the project's road component, following annual programs
established by ONAFITEX pursuant to the road convention mentioned above, in
agreement with the Association; (c) carry out a road maintenance program in
the project area; (d) allocate annually for this program amounts not less than
the average, adjusted for inflation and fluctuation in exchange rates, of the
previous three years' allocations; and, (e) continue the programs of grading
and rehabilitation of roads carried out under the project's road component
after the completion of the project (Sections 3.07 (a) and (b), 3.08 and 4.04
of the Credit Agreement).
51.        The Bureau of Roads, as the body officially responsible for road
maintenance, would take over ONAFITEX's functions with regard to the program
in the project area, including maintenance of equipment, as soon as the Bureau
has established a logistic support base.    The Bureau of Roads would establish
such a base by December 31, 1979, in accordance with a plan acceptable to IDA,
to be prepared by June 30, 1978 (Section 3.07 (c) of the Credit Agreement).
Agricultural Services
52.       Due mainly to lack of qualified staff, the existing extension
training and research services in the project area are inadequate.      In
addition to ONAFITEX's own extension agents (about 30, who both buy cotton and
advise farmers), the field agents of the Department of Agriculture in the
region (about 200) would be reassigned to ONAFITEX, under the administrative
authority of the Regional Director for Equateur.     The Department of Agricul-
ture however, would continue to pay their salaries (Section 3.10 of the Credit
Agreement). The agents would receive bicycles to enable them to visit the
farmers. A Training Officer skilled in agricultural training will be recruit-
ed under the project to develop and implement a training program for this
existing extension staff. He would be assisted by the five field Agronomists
provided under the project.   It is expected that this program would permit the
creation of a nucelus of trained extension staff, which could be expanded
after 1980 in a second phase project.    The Agronomists would also be responsi-
ble for coordination with the research unit for carrying out trials and seed
multiplication at the village level to show farmers how yields can be improved
without sophisticated equipment.



- 15 -
53.       This reinforced extension service would also distribute improved
seed to farmers free of charge. In order to enable the National Institute
for Agronomic Study and Research (INERA) sub-station at Boketa to produce
improved seeds and carry out other basic agronomic trials, the project would
provide the sub-station with a Research Agronomist. An agreement would
be concluded by June 30, 1977 between ONAFITEX and INERA to allow the
services of the Boketa sub-station to be put at the disposal of the project
for purposes of research and seed multiplication (Section 3.06 of the Credit
Agreement). Fertilizers would not be employed under the project, although
fertilizer trials would continue.
54.       Use of insecticides has shown promise and the project would include
purchase of trial insecticides and dusters to establish the most effective
means of large scale insect control in preparation for widespread use in a
second phase. Approval by the Association of ONAFITEX's plan for distribution
of insecticides and dusters would be a condition of disbursement for the insect
control program (para. 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement).
Organization and Management
55.       ONAFITEX, which is the national organization responsible for all
cotton buying, ginning, transport and extension work, has been poorly managed
in the past. Its accounts have not been audited for several years and
its operations have resulted in large deficits. The Equateur Regional Office
of ONAFITEX, which would have the major responsibility for carrying out the
project, has not previously had its own accounts, so it is not possible to
make any assessment of its past financial performance.    The project is de-
signed primarily to improve the organization and management of the Equateur
Regional Office, but it is also intended to help strengthen ONAFITEX's general
operations. For these reasons, the Equateur Regional Office would be given
such operational and financial authority as will ensure the good execution
of the project under the general responsibility of the Director General of
ONAFITEX. To this end, special powers designed to give the Regional Direc-
torate operational and financial authority would be determined as necessary
by agreement between the Government and the Association. These powers would
be delegated to the Regional Office under Article 13 of ONAFITEX's statutes
which provides for delegation of powers by the Director General (Section 3.02
of the Credit Agreement).
56.       The project would provide key personnel to strengthen both
ONAFITEX's head office in Kinshasa and the Equateur Regional Directorate.
ONAFITEX would engage a consultant to study its organization and make
proposals for improvement, particularly in the accounting system of the
Head Office and the Equateur Regional Office.
57.       Responsibility for management of the project would rest with the
Regional Director for the Equateur Region.   He would report to the Director
General of ONAFITEX but would be responsible for the implementation, coordina-
tion and evaluation of project activities. The Regional Director would be
an expatriaLe expert who would be assisted in the project area by the follow-
ing experts, mosL of whom would serve for four years:



- 16 -
1.   Five Agronomists to assist in improving cotton husbandry
techniques and in training extension workers; a Research
Specialist for the INERA sub-station at Boketa; and a
Training Officer for the training of extension workers;
2.   An Accountant at the Regional Office to control the project
accounts, to implement improved accounting procedures and
to train staff to carry them out;
3. A Supply and Logistics Officer responsible for the organiiza-
tion of an efficient buying and storage system;
4.   A Maintenance Supervisor responsible for the renovation
of the workshop and the supervision of ONAFITEX's team
of 19 Mechanics in Gemena;
5.   A Ginneries Engineer responsible for carrying out the
rehabilitation of the ginneries and training local
staff.
A Chief Accountant would be assigned to ONAFITEX Headquarters to control
the project accounts there, to implement improved accounting procedures
for ONAFITEX's general operations, and to train staff to carry them out.
A Liaison and Supply Officer would also be stationed at ONAFITEX Head-
quarters to process orders of goods for the project and to liaise with
suppliers and government agencies.
58.       The experts selected for these positions would not act as advisors,
but would have executive responsibilities.    ONAFITEX would seek the services
of a consultant firm to provide a team of experts at an average cost of about
US$50,000 per man-year, to be financed by the Belgian AGCD. Appointments to the
positions of Regional Director, Chief Accountant and Regional Accountant,
would be submitted for the prior approval of the Association (Section 3.03 of
the Credit Agreement). Each member of the expert team would be assisted by a
Zairian deputy, who would be trained to assume the functions of the expert at
the end of his term of service.    ONAFITEX would promptly fill any vacancies
occurring in these posts (Section 4.05 of the Credit Agreement). The terms of
reference of the consultant team, as well as other matters of common interest,
will be governed by a tripartite agreement between the Borrower, the Govern-
ment of Belgium and the Association.
Evaluation and Project Studies
59.        The effectiveness of the project would be evaluated during its
implementation. The results of the evaluation would be important in deciding
whether to proceed with a second project. Overall performance would be
monitored by the Rural Economy Department of the National University of Zaire,
following criteria to be agreed between the Government and IDA. Financing
of studies necessary for further projects in the cotton industry, including an
evaluation of the present project, would be provided under the project.      The



- 17 -
*erms of reference of the studies to be financed under the credit wonud be
subject to the approval of the Association (Schedule 2, Part I of the Credit
Agreement), as would the selection of consultants engaged to carry them out
(Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties,is estimated
at US$14.6 million with a foreign exchange component of US$10.3 million, or 71
percent of the total cost.   The breakdown of project costs is as follows:
Local    Foreign      Total
-------US$ Million--------
Transport and Marketing               0.51        1.29       1.80
Roads and Bridges                     0.94       1.81        2.75
Agricultural Services                 0.67       2.51        3.18
Regional and Head Office Staff        0.29       1.20        1.49
Ginneries                             0.10       0.47        0.57
Insect Control                        0.05       0.45        0.50
Studies, Project Preparation
and Evaluation                       0.11       0.29        0.40
Physical Contingencies                0.16       0.49        0.65
Expected Price Increases              1.45       1.80        3.25
Total Project Cost               4.28      10.31       14.59
61.       The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would finance about 55
percent of total project cost, including about US$800,000 of the local cost,
and 70 percent of the foreign exchange component. The Belgian Administration
Generale de Cooperation au Developpement (AGCD) would finance the cost of
the management team for the project, i.e., US$3.1 million, entirely in foreign
exchange. The Government would finance the balance of local costs, equivalent
to US$3.5 million. The Government will advance the funds required for its
share of the local costs of the project semi-annually to a project account
(Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of the Credit Agreement). In order to avoid invest-
ments that would divert resources from the project,ONAFITEX will submit
for the prior approval of the Association until completion of the project any
investment in the Equateur Region, the cost of which exceeds the equivalent of
US$100,000 per year (Section 4.03 of the Credit Agreement).
62.       With the exception of the funds for the road component of the
project (US$2.7 million), which would be credited to the budget of the Office
des Routes, the IDA credit would be onlent to ONAFITEX at 6 percent per annum
interest for 15 years, including four years grace.    The interest rate is in
line with rates for agricultural loans given by commercial banks. The con-
clusion of a relending agreement between ONAFITEX and the Government woLud
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit, as would the deposit
to the credit of the ONAFITEX Equateur Regional Office of Z 200,000, represent-
ing the initial semi-annual advance for local project costs, provided for in



- 18 -
Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of the Credit Agreement). The AGCD contribution
would be given as a grant to the Government, the terms and conditions of
which would be confirmed in an exchange of letters between Zaire and Belgium,
is also a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Procurement
63.       Contracts over US$50,000 for procurement of vehicles, equipment
and supplies (US$3.0 million) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines, and will allow for
the usual preference to domestic suppliers. Contracts for goods or works
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 will be procured locally in accordance
with the Borrower's procurement rules, which are acceptable to the Association.
64.       The civil works contract(s) for the major bridge(s) (US$350,000)
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, and a
7-1/2 percent preference for local civil works contractors would be allowed.
Due to the scattered location and relatively small amounts involved for the
other civil works (a total of US$1.3 million) foreign contractors are unlikely
to be interested in these items.   Civil works contracts would therefore be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with the Borrower's procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association.
The Bureau of Raods would carry out the road rehabilitation works on force
account.
Disbursements
65.       The proposed credit would be disbursed to meet:
(a) 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures on ginnery
machinery;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 75 percent of local
expenditures on vehicles, equipment and agricultural
materials;
(c) 40 percent of total expenditures on civil works other
than road works;
(d) 70 percent of total expenditures for the road and
bridge component;
(e) 60 percent of total expenditures on incremental vehicle
operating and housing maintenance costs during
project execution; and
(f) 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures or 90 percent
of the local costs of consultants.



- 19 -
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.     In order
to get an early start on strengthening its finances and organization, ONAFITEX
is negotiating with a consultant to advise on reforms. Furthermore, in
order to rehabilitate the ginneries as quickly as possible, some spare parts
have been ordered. Retroactive financing up to US$350,000 is therefore
proposed for expenditures incurred after March 1, 1976.
Cotton Prices
66.        Minimimum prices paid to producers of seed cotton, fixed by the
Department of National Economy, have remained low in relation to competing
crops during the last several years.    The March 1976 devaluation of the
zaire also reduced their value in relation to world market prices. During
the 1976 cotton season, the Government raised them by 100 percent for first
quality and by 200 percent for second quality, thus restoring them to an
adequate level.   To promote the sound operation of ONAFITEX, the Government
also raised recently the sale price of cotton fiber by about 140 percent,
to an average level of Z 1.38/kg.    This price is also adequate.   Under
the project, the Government would conduct annual reviews of both seed cotton
and cotton fiber prices, exchange views with the Association on these reviews,
and make adjustments in cotton prices to assure that they:     (a) bear a reason-
able relation to world market prices, (b) offer an adequate incentive to
farmers; and, (c) promote the sound financial operation of ONAFITEX (Section
4.06 of the Credit Agreement).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
67.       The chief benefits of the project would be the increase in foreign
exchange revenue from cotton exports and the increased income to farmers,
many of whom have no alternative source of cash. As a result of the improved
cotton transport, marketing and extension services provided under the project,
cotton yields in the project are expected to rise from the current average
level of 200 kg/ha to the comparatively low level of 350 kg/ha per annum in
year four.   Overall production of seed cotton in the area is expected to rise
from the present level of 4,500 tons to 12,600 tons in year four.     The net
incremental value of this at forecast world market prices (in 1975 dollar
terms) would be about US$3.1 million.    The Government would collect additional
tax revenue from the cotton lint which will be exported. About 84,000 farmers
are expected to benefit from the project and it is expected that their cash
income would almost double.    Finally, the road improvements would bring
additional benefits to the Equateur Region as a whole. It is estimated
that the project would generate a cumulative net operating surplus for
ONAFITEX of about US$1.2 million by the fifth year of the project and will
continue thereafter to generate a positive cash flow which would be available
to the Government for further cotton development and the partial recovery of
its contributions to start up costs and operating capital.
68.       The cotton produced by the project has, in the economic analysis,
been valued at IBRD forecast world market prices. The economic rate of
return on the project is estimated at 23 percent. With foreign exchange costs



- 20 -
and benefits shadow priced at 120 percent to reflect the economic value of
foreign exchange, the rate of reLurn would be 25 percent.   Since the roads
yield benefits to other users, only 70 percent of the costs of the road
improvements have been included in the economic costs of the project. Only
family labor will be used and a shadow price of 30 percent of the daily wage
rate has been assumed.
69.       One risk facing the project would be that farmers might not respond
as expected to the improved marketing conditions, even though the incentives
provided for cotton production have been designed so as to be greater than
for competing crops.  Another risk would be that the management of the project
would not succeed in solving the organizational difficulties of ONAFITEX,
despite the precautions taken to ensure its effectiveness.    Sensitivity
analyses indicate that the rate of return would decrease to 18 percent with
a 15 percent reduction in benefits, corresponding approximately to a yield
of 300 kg/ha instead of 350, and to 17 percent with a 15 percent increase
in costs. If both these events occurred simultaneously, the rate of return
would be further reduced to 12 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire
and the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the text of
a resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.   The special features  of the Agreement are
set out above in paras. 45, 50-51, 53-55, 61 and 66.
71.       The following are additional conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement):
(a) Conclusion of a relending agreement between the
Borrower and ONAFITEX;
(b) The deposit to the credit of the ONAFITEX Equateur
Regional Office of Z 200,000, representing the
initial semi-annual advance for local project costs,
provided for in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of the Credit
Agreement; and
(c)  An exchange of letters between the Borrower and the
Government of Belgium confirming agreement on the
Belgian participation in the project.
72.       Conditions of disbursement are as follows (Schedule 1,    para. 4 (b)
and (c) of the Credit Agreement.



- 21 -
(a) For the insect control program (Schedule 2, Part F
of the Credit Agreement) approval by the Association of
ONAFITEX's plan for the distribution to farmers of
dusters and insecticides; and
(b) For the works included in the road component (Schedule 2,
Part B of the Credit Agreement), the signature of a
convention between ONAFITEX and the Bureau of Roads,
satisfactory to the Association.
73.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
74.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 8, 1976



Vas=1Of 4 page.
TABLE 3A
ZAIRE               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA ITHOU KN2)                                                              ------
---------------                   ZAIRE                              REFERENtF COUNTRIFS 119701
TOTAL     2345.4                                      MOST RECENT
ARABLE        ..                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE          ETHIOPIA       NIGERIA       BRAZILR.
GNP PER CAPITA PUSS)                      70.0      110.0       140.0              70.0       190.0       530.0
PnPIILATION ANn VITAL STAYISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            16.6       21.6       23.4               24.6        66.2       92.a
POPliLATION OFNSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         7.0        9.0        10.0              20.0        72.0       11.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND              ..                                                   ..       34.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND           ..       44.0       45.0               46.0        50.0       38.0
CRUDE nEATH RATE PER THOUSAND           ..       23.0        Z3.0              25.0        25.0        10.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE tITHOUI       104.04/        ..         ..                 ..          ..      110.0
L     ;-  XPFCTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)      ..       41.0       44.0               39.0        40.0       01.0
GNUS5 RFPRODUCTtON RATE                 ..        2.8         2.9                2.9        3.3        2.6
--  ItN Wr-WrH RATF It)
T&                                   ..         2.7       2.4                2.2         2.5        2.9
URb                                     ..         ..        6.0/a              9.4 /a      5.0         5.0
URBAN PnPULATI!' it OF TOTAL)             ..       22.0/k      25.0               10.0       23.0        56.0
AGE STRUCTURF IPERCENTI
0 Tn 14 YEARS                        39.0b      42.0       43.0               45.5        45.0       42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.0 ck       : 55.0    54.0              42.64b      53.0       S5.0
z l"  d4n OVER                     6.    0     3.0         3.0              11.9         2.0        3.0
AG[ DIPENOENCY ;Atff                     0.8kb      0.N         1.9                                       .
ECONOMIC DEPENDEI-' RQATIO               0.9/e      1.?'t       ;3,'
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACrEPTORS ICUMULATi.E, TrO,U            ..         ..          ...
USERS I2 OF MAARIEO W0OMEN)             ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAPOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          6800.0     7900.0      8400.0           11300.0     25600.0    29600.0
LABnR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE ISI          84.0       78.0        77.0               85.0       67.0       44.0
UNEMPLnYED It OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..
I.CCmE niSTRIBUTION
T nF PRIVATF INCOME REC'O BY-
HIGHEST  5S nF POPULATION               ..         ..          ..                 ..          .        35.0 /
NIGHRST 20T OF POPULATION               ..         ..         ..                 6. ..                 62.0 4
LOWEST  20S OF POPULATION               ..         ..          ..                 ..          .         3.0 4
LOWEST  40S OF POPULATION               .          ..          ..                 ..         ..        10.0 t
DISTR19UTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNFO BY TOP 1O0 OF OWNERS              ..         ..          ..                 ..         .         45.0
X OWNEf BY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS            ..         ..          ..                  ,.                   1.5
HFtATH AN) NUTRITION
POPULATIIN PER PHYSICIAN             30000.0    30040.0     29650.0            74550.0    2460.O.Ob    1950.0
POPILATIcS PER NURSING PERSON         3580.0     Z290.0          ..           24040.0      4610.0T7    3300.01k
POP,LATIOn  PER HOSPITAL RED           180.0      320.0          ..            3030.0      2220.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SIJPPLY OF -
CALORIES It OF REQUtREMENTSI          92.0       92.0          ..               92.0       97.0       109.0
PE"TAIN (GFAMS PER DAY)               33.0       33.0          ..               69.0       60.0        64.0
-_n  WHIClH ANIMAL AND PULSE          *         16.0         ..               25.0       16.0        39.0
DFATI, 'TP l/ThOU) AGES 1-4
E OUCAT I rln
AnJUSTEO ENROtLIMSNT RATIO
PRItMAf SCHnOL                        72.0       86.0          ..               16.0       14.0       130.0
SECONrlARY SCHOOL                      3.0        11.0         ..                4.0        4.0        27.0
YFARS Or SCHOnLING PROVIIED
(FIRST ANn SFCOSC LEVELI              12.0       12.0        12.0               12.0       14.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLME'JT
I( OF SFCONOARYI                      27.0       14.0          .                 5.0        8.0        17.0
AOULT LITERACY RATE (El                   ..        13.0         ..                 ..          .        68.0
HOUSING
PERSCNS PER ROOHM AVERAAGEI                          ..              ..         ..                        1.0
OCCUPIEn DWELLINGS WITHGUT
PIPFD WATFR IX)                         ..         ..          .,                 ..         ,.        73.0/!
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(V nF ALL DWELLINGS)                    *-        2.0          ..                 ..         ..        48.0
RIPRAL OWFLLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELFCTRICITY tS)                      ..          ..         ..                 ..         ..         8.0
CONSIJMPTI ON
PAnDo RECFIVEPS (PER THOU POPI           3.0         3.0        4.0                6.0        23.0       60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0/f       4.0        4.0                2.0         1.0       25.0
ELECTRICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)           136.0       140.0      166.0               21.0        28.0      487.0
NEwSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                O. vla      0.03        0.03               0.04       0.3         2.7
SFF   --TE -ANo          ---        --ON-REVERS              -------
SEE NnTES AND DEFINITIOINS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 Of 4 pages
Unles ocerule oted, data for 1960 refer to Sany year borweeo 1939 ad 1961, for 1970 horwens 1968 Snd 1970, and for Hoer Reenst Rarheate beornes 1971
and 1973.
oxBracil boo boo" Selerted 00 en objeotive country for Zaire bcouse of the con,parability of aioe and natural r-sor-     sodas   t of the too cootriee,
picothe fart that Brooil hao a high growth rare ad to at a higher Income level.
ZAIRE       1960     /a  1955-58, ~lb   1955-57;   Ic  Ago group 15-54:   Id  55 aod ovor,    I.  Ratio of population -nder 15 cod 55 ad -ovr to total
labor force; /f 1963, 71 including Rwan d.aend Burunidi.
1970    Ia  1965,   /b  Ratio of population under 15 cod 65 and -or to total labor force;      /s  1964-66.
MOST RECET! ESTDtATS:     /a  1965-73:   /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over, to total labor force.
ETHIOPIA    1970     Ia  1965-70;   lb  15-49 peare, ad 50 years and ovr roopectively;      le  Ratio of population under 15 cod 50 ad ove    to total labor
force.
NIGERIA      1970    /a  Rtion of population under 15 ad 65 end over to total labor force;     /b  Regiaterd, 000 all practicing in the ceatcry.
BRAZIL      1970    /a  Econnomically active population;   /b  Hoepital personnel;    le  Inside only.
R5, March 15, 1976
ffFfffThMNS OIF SOCIALINDfICATORS
land Ann (tho    o2)                                                                 Poplaion no     orin. porso   - Population divided by n,umber of practl-
Tslr'ftiThhlce oro  comprising land area and inland watero.                     clgaeadrn             rdaenre, "trained"          r"etfe"noao
-m moot recent estinate of lend are. used temporarily or permanently               and auxiliary personnel with trelning or experience.
flrcultivnt io, pasturos, market sod kitchen gerdens or to lie fallow.              "    tpon&gIrjqitlbo       - Population divided by nunber of hospital
e dili     W1    jiE   nad private genorel end opeielised hoepita1
HSi e opt. (US$) - GiNP per capito etiteatos, St earket priceo, colo-              ond rehabilitation centes: excldes nureing hones and eotblieh)nto
amS co5~T  nversoin methnd as World Bank Atlas (197P-74. beato).                for ctotodial cnd prieventive car.
Por citsulyOfclre If                 reusnta) - Conputed fine
PopultiocamA  Ita  Statistics                                                     enor1 eqiaeto"ntMowuple                  vial     inocontory per
75     tizHv-A                     of July firot; if not available, overage            capita per day; available supplies coeprioo domestic prodortion,
ot     ena-yrot3      Ei                                                           tuporta leso exports, and chengoa in stock; net sfupplies excude
anisal food, seeds, quantities used in fond processing end looses
Popultion denity - p r snuar     lu- Mid-year population per quar    hilt-             in distribution; requirements woem estissated by 910O booed on pbyei-
colr (00  ootres  oftotlIrea.                                                 olugical needs for onorsi activity and health cronidering environ-
Populo,tioc dnsity- per sQuare k, of arable land - Con,puted as above for              mental. temperature, bo4t weights0 ago end sexr distributions of popu-
arabis Sand only.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~lation, and allowing 10% for waote at household level.
Per ccapita oupply Of protein (gr    pe  day) - Protein contenit of per
Vital ofatiotics                                                                       capita not Supply Or food pervdy;net sfupply of food is defined aa
Crude b-ir-th rate Per thouoad - Annual live birth. par thousand of odd-               above; requironete for all1 co-tries established by UiSI Beenontc
yea populotion; usull     fv-year avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and                   Reaseach Services provide for a mnistoon abloence of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                       protein per~ dey, end 20 groeo of animal end pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death rate per thousand - Annual doatho per thousand of nild-year                gr ashould be antiaI protein; these atandarda are lower than th-oe
population ;usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of anial protein as an ever-
for developing countries,                                                            age for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Fond Survey.
Infant mortalit  rate C/thou) - Annual deatho of infants under one year              Per caita   rotei  suoytrnaiales            ulae - Protein sfupply of fond
of age per thousand liv,e births,.eie                                                         otall        n pusesi      grass per day.
Life cxetancy at birth (ys) - Average nunber of years of litfa remain-               Death rate (/tbo     0: I   - Annual deaths per thousanad in ago group 1-4s
an  t huirth; usuall  ive-ya   avorages ending in 1960, 1970 and 19,75            Team,     1HIA    tnN    i's age group; suggested aSo an indicator of a-1
ter developing countries.                                                            nutrition.
Oroa rprouctonrat   -Average cuter of live daughters a woan will
blIn ivi        at!rproductive period if she experiences proeset age-           Education
Specific fertility rates; usully five-year averages ending in 1960,                   us ia  enollmntratiocjp - in      school - Thorollisent of al ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                                      goopi          con-g             iong includes children aged
Population growt rat      )-toa     - Coiound anua growth rates of cid-                6-li years but aditused f or different lm,gths of prisary education,
year populaiion for 195047, 1941-7C0,nPand 1960 to cost recent year.                 for count,ries with universal education,  renrlmnent may exceed 100%
Popultion growth rate ()-urban - Computed like growth rote of total                    since aone pupils are below or above the official echool age.
pouitlon; different definitions of urban areas cay affect compare-               AdV   O sed nnrolnent ratio - secndr   schol - Computed as above; second-
bi-lity of data amng countries.                                                      ary   eduation requires at les   four year  of approved primary instruc-
Urban.p    ltion Vof total) - Ratio of urban to total populatioc;                      lion; provides general, vocationa  or teaher training introtion for
different definitions or urban areas nay affect comparahility of data                pupils of 12 in 17 years of ago; correspondence courses ar~e generally
among ounitries,                                                                     excluded.
stutue ercent) - Children (0-1L years), working ago (15-64. years),        Years ofsholn        roie      (irstand second levels) - Total. years of
end retired(65 years and over) as percontages of odd-yea    population,              schooling; at secondr   leel voctional instnr-tion soy be partinily
A.=     ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                or completely excluded.
those nf ages 1  through 64..                 tVocationail enrollment (Iof secondwyr                                       - Vocational. institutions include
Econo.ic dopondency ratio - Ratio of population undor 15 and 65 and over               techoical, industrial gor other programs which operate independently
to the labor force In agE group of 15-64. years.                                     or as dopartmsents of Secondary institutions.
Famil pinnin     rge-acepttorrs (cunulative, thou) -Cumulative cuter of                             rateli Lc   kk ) - Literate adults (able to read and wrIte) as
acceptoso    brt     ontrol dovices under auspices of national family                Pa      go OA,      aduLt population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Family planning - users (% of smried women) - Percentages of carriedHosn
wocn of child-bearing age (1-i.5    ye~ars  who use birth-control devices          r9yppgooupJgaergej) - Average cuter of persons per root in occupied
to cii carrie  woo    na       g   ru,convec en                                                   dwlings in ur~ban area; dwellings exclude na-permnornat
structures and unoccupied pats.
an                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Occupied 2dneLngs wiLthotpineM w ter() -Occupied conventional dwell-
P.                        thousr:e ~o and) - Econoodcally active persoocs, including   ings in ubnadralre            wihtt,ide or outside piped water,
aned     d   emplou yed but excluding housewives, students, set.;             faiiisas percentage of al         cupe1welns
definitions in variou, countries are cot comparable.                               Access to electricity ( of all dotnlinga) - Convectional dwellings with
ibrforce in giculture () - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                    electricity in lIving quarters as percent of total dwol-linge in urban
foriestry  limting and fishing) en percentage of total labor force.                  and rwal areas.
U lye   6of labor force) - Unemleyed are usually defin,ed as persons          Rua      IRlinc  cnetd to electricity     %)-Computed as above for rura
ilwho  re  ble and wlilling to take a Job, out of a. job on a given day,Awiieony
remained out of a job, and seeking work for a Specified mniinnicn
period not exceeding one veek; cay not be comparable between countriesCo
due to different definitions of unemplyeyd ond source of data, e.g.,                     receW~ivers (per thou cop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
employmeont office Statistics, soaple surveys, compulsory unemployment               casts in geneal Public Per tbousn-d of population; excludes on-
insurance,                                                                          licensed receivers in countries and in years when registration of
radio sets woo in effect; data for recet years sAy not be conparblo
Ioneo    distribution - Percentage of private incomie (both In cash and                since mcostcountrieso abolished licensing.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                Pa   ore cars    orw th  ou p) - Passeger car comrise entor care samt-
4.0% of population,                                                                   n  less ta   eight prersos; excludes ambulances, hearses and
military vehicles.
Distribution of land ownership.   Percentages of land owned by wealth-               oltiiv(w/rpr cal) - Annual cmasuoption of industrial, con-
test 10% and poret 0o lad owners.                                                   ciail7ipubliciiid private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita;
generally based on prod ction data, without allowance for looses in
Health and Nutrition                                                                   grids but allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
Pplaion oer     ton - Population divided by number of practicing                       riont  kK       c       e   elaana        osmto       nklge
ptWacian   qwWin from a nedical School at university level.                     iicldI       donesmttc production plum not im,ports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN i974                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1960 -69          1970-73            1974
GNP at Market Prices           3327.6      100.0                                          5.4               5.2
Gross Domestic Investment       804.6       24.2                                         15.0            -10.0
Gross National Saving           682.2       20.5                                         13.2              1.6
Current Account Balance        -516.4      -15.5
Exports of Goods, NFS          1474.0       44.3                                          7.6             11.7
Imports of Goods, NFS         1860.0        55.9                                          5.7              4.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                   Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
~US$ln.       f                  Mln.       %                    U 
Agriculture                    522.6       15.6
Industry                      1133.4        33.8              ..
Services                      1701.0        50.6
Unallocated
Total/Average
3357.0      100.0               8.4     100.0                              100.0
GOVERNMENT ?INANCE
General Oowe-rment                             Central Government
Z       n.,         %fODP _                         X.)           % of GDP
19,..        . 4A     1971-73                  1974        1974        1971-73
Current Receipts                   538.6         30.5         29.3
Current Expenditure                558.8         31.6         25.6
Current Surplus                    -20.2         -1.1          3.7
Capital Expenditures               186.3         10.5          8.9
External Assistance (net)          121.3          6.8           5.1
June        .Vne
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                  1968         1971,        1972        1973        1974        197'
(ifillion Zaire outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    151.9        213.0        256.7       356.6        460.9       46-.2
Bank credit to Public Sector              88.5        133.9        157.8       188.8        261.4.      364.3
Bank Crsdit to Private Sector             20.6         59.9         91.1       132.6        177.8       282.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         21.8         18.7         20.6        21.7         26.1        24.5
General Price Index (1970 = 100)          87.2        105.8        122.2       141.7        181.9       225.3
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       46.8          5.8         15.5        16.0         34.1        23.8
Bank credit to Public Sector              11.1         28.1         17.9        19.0        44.0         39.4
Bank credit to Private Sector             14.2         40.3         52.0        45.7        48.4         58.7
NOTEs  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAD4HZNS AND CAPITAL FL0WS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971-73)
1972      1973      1974                                              US S Mln    %
(millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS            789.0    1123.0   1474.0             Copper                           491.0       61.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          1031.4     1356.0   1860.0             Cobalt                            59.0        7.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     -242.4     -233.0   -386.0             Coffee                            59.4        7.4
Diamonds                           44.8       5.6
Interest Payments (net)           ..       -33.2    -77.1             Palm & Palm Kernel Oil            29.1        3.6
Workers' Remittances             -86.0     -28.0      66.4
other Factor Payments (net)     -45.6      - 6.8    - 2.9
Net Transfers                     74.0      27.0     16.0            All other commodities             119.6       14.9
Balance on Current Account     -300.0     -274.0    -516.4                 Total                       802.9      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        97.0       20.0                   EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                234.4      368.0    496.7                                                     US $ Mln
Amortization                  87.4       61.0     97.2
Subtotal                     147.0      307.0    399.5            Public.Debt, incl. guaranteed               1296.7
Capital Grants                   23.6       10.0      8.0            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)               10.8       ..      ..              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                11.2       -1.4     112.4
Increase in Reserves (+-)      -  8.2     - 61.6   -220.8 2/       DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973-
Gross Reserves (end year)        178.4     234.6    140.2
Net Reserves    (end year)        95.1     154.8    120.2             Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                11.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
FNiel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        38.4       48.0     101.0
of which:  Petroleum         38.4       48.0     101.0
Exports                          2.2       2.6       3.0
of which:  Petroleum           2.2       2.6      3-0    IBRD/IDA    LEHNUING, July 31, 1976i/          (Million    US  $:
IBRD        IXDA
RATE OF FXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed                23 .3    45.5
Since March 12, 1976Udibre                                                                            7&7     10.
_____________                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Undiabursed                  77X7    100.0
SDR 1 _ Z I                                                     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        101.0     145.5
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/ After exchangeadjustments.
3/ Valuation gain realized by sale of monetary gold is included in
Increase in reserves but not in reserve nosition.
not available
not applicable
8ACP  II               Augustz,31, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of July 31, 1976)
Loan or
Credit     Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ Millions
Number      Year      Borrower      Purpose          Bank     IDA/2   Undisbursed
Prior to    Congo and    Transport           91.6/1
June 1960   Otraco       Infrastructure
152         1969     ZAIRE        Technical Assis-     -         6.0        -
tance & Highway
Administration
190         1970     ZAIRE        DFC I                -         5.0        -
255         1971     ZAIRE        River Transport      -         7.0       1.9
271         1972     ZAIRE        DFC II               -        10.0       2.9
272         1972     ZAIRE        Education            -         6.5       5.8
292         1972      ZAIRE       Highway II            -       19.0       7.4
398         1974     ZAIRE        Livestock            -         8.5       5.5
463         1974      ZAIRE       DFC III               -       10.0       6.0
1090        1975      ZAIRE       GECAMINES           100.0       -       77.7
536         1975      ZAIRE       Highway III           -       26.0      23.5
571          1975     ZAIRE       Rail-River II         -       26.0      25.5
625         1976      ZAIRE       Water Supply          -       21.5      21.5
TOTAL (less cancellations):          191.6     145.5     177.7
-  of which has been repaid:        90.6
TOTAL now outstanding:               101.0     145.5
Amount sold:                   54.5
- of which has been repaid   54.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA /2:   101.0     145.5
TOTAL undisbursed:                    77.7     100.0     177.7
/1   Guaranteed by the Kindom of Belgium.
/2   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                              Type of           Amount in US$ Millions
Year          Obligor              Business       Loan       Equity     Total
1970     Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE)       DFC            -        0.76        0.76
Total gross commitments
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales:                                  -        0.76        0.76
Total commitments now
held by IFC:                                -         0.76       0.76
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 255   RIVER TRANSPORT; US$7 Million Credit of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: January 17, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of (a) rehabil-
itation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment for the Zaire
River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway;
(c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision of experts to fill
key positions in ONATRA, RVM and RVF; and (e) a feasibility study of the Voie
Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between the mining areas of
Shaba and Zairian seaports. The river agencies have been set up as autonomous
public entities, and all contracts for goods and services under the project
awarded. However, the implementation of the project is proceeding slowly.
Some progress was made recently with the approval of the extension of the
contract for rehabilitation of navigational aids on the Kasai River, but the
Government is now considering cancellation of the contract for alleged irreg-
ularities and non-performance on the part of the consultants. After a delay
of about one year, resulting from a lack of local currency payments by the
Government, construction of two buoy tenders for the RVF has recommenced.
The three agencies involved in the project, especially ONATRA, continue to
suffer from adverse financial positions and institutional weaknesses. The
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
original Closing Date, December 31, 1973, was extended twice to provide addi-
tional time for recruitment of technical assistance personnel, for the works
related to the rehabilitation of markings on the Kasai River and for recondi-
tioning of two dredgers. The new Closing Date is December 31, 1976.
Credit 271   Second DFC; US$10 Million Credit of September 24, 1971; Effec-
tive Date: February 1, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Credit 463   Third DFC; US$10 Million Credit of February 20, 1974;
Effective Date: July 25, 1974; Cldsing Date: December 31, 1977.
A first line of credit to SOFIDE was made in 1970 and was fully
disbursed. The second line of credit to SOFIDE was made one year after the
first, since SOFIDE's volume of operations was three times that forecast. The
credit was not fully committed until December 1973, due to the availability
to SOFIDE of other resources. A Zairian General Manager, assisted by an
expatriate Senior Adviser, replaced the Bank-seconded General Manager in May
1973. The third line of credit to SOFIDE is almost fully committed. SOFIDE's
operations have been conducted in a satisfactory manner.
Credit 272   Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971; Effec-
tive Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: April 30, 1977.
The project consists of construction and rehabilitation of three
teacher training colleges, a demonstration school and four technical secondary
schools, a management study and a survey of manpower requirements. Implemen-
tation of the project is more than two and a half years behind schedule and
the credit Closing Date will have to be extended by about the same period.
Rehabilitation work on one school in Kinshasa is nearing completion. Tenders
were received for a school in Kisangani and these indicated that a large cost
overrun (150 percent over the appraisal estimate) is likely. Since the cost
overruns could not be financed on the government budget, the Department of
Education has decided to reduce the scope of the works to four high priority
schools, postponing another four. An amendment to the Credit Agreement is
being prepared. Following the decision to reduce the size of the project, the
Project Unit is proceeding with the award of the furniture and equipment con-
tracts for the schools to be retained in the project. The management study
has been completed. The project cost is being monitored very closely. It is
proposed to postpone the Closing Date to December 31, 1979.
Credit 292   Second Highway; US$19 Million Credit of March 23, 1972; Effec-
tive Date: September ll, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project,-jointly financed by the IDA, UNDP, CIDA, FAC and USAID,
consists of a comprehensive program to strengthen highway administration and
maintenance and to rehabilitate high-priority roads. All project components,
except rehabilitation works, have been completed. The main institutional
objective of the project, the establishment of the Office des Routes (OR) as
a countrywide organization responsible for highways, was achieved. Twelve
contracts, awarded in early 1974 for rehabilitation of about 1,600 km of



ANNEX II
Page 4
roads, have progressed much more slowly than anticipated, due to the failure or
weakening of several contractors, delays in local payments and shortage of
critical supplies. By June 1976, about 740 km of road had been resurfaced,
that is about 58 percent of the total.   Delays have led to cost increases
and,due to these cost increases, some contracts have had to be cancelled or
revised. The OR has prepared a revised project completion plan, taking into
account the latest estimates of final cost and financing requirements. The
revised program would provide for rehabilitation of 1,265 km (as compared with
initial program of 1,560 km) and for improved maintenance of remaining roads.
It would be completed by the end of 1977. The present Closing Date of Decem-
ber 31, 1977 may have to be extended.
Credit 398 Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21, 1973; Ef-
fective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project is intended to develop three government ranches in the
Shaba region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority
(ONDE). The project also provides substantial assistance (US$1.3 million) for
training and the preparation of future agricultural projects. Performance of
consultants and their relations with local staff have been unsatisfactory.
ONDE has decided to give the consultants a final six-month trial period, after
which it will decide whether it will continue or terminate its association
with the consulting firm. The project encountered difficulties in the first
year, due to extensive burning of pasture on the largest ranch, which led to
high cattle mortality; however, a number of measures have been taken to avoid
a repetition of this. Because of management and supply problems, project
implementation is behind schedule, especially in its purchase program of
breeding heifers. Recently more than half of all heifers and bulls imported
from Botswana died because of inadequate care given to them before and during
transportation. The exporter has accepted to replace most of the lost animals.
The financial position of the project is also critical, as investment costs
have almost doubled, while official cattle prices increased by only 25 percent.
They have recently been substantially increased, but it is essential that
Government regularly review prices in future and adjust them as necessary.    It
is now proposed to revise the original stocking up program for the individual
ranches to better reflect their respective management capacity. Moderate
supplementary government financing will probably be required to compensate for
past cost overruns and future expected price increases.
Loan 1090   Mining Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of March 8, 1975;
Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project consists in expanding the production facilities of the
state-owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce an
additional 120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per year
of cobalt in the form of copper-cobalt alloy. Project execution is well
underway. As a result of transport and supply problems, and lack of foreign
exchange, it is expected that copper production in 1976 will fall short of
the projected output. However, the Government has already taken steps to
allocate to GECAMINES the necessary foreign exchange. Due to rising copper



ANNEX II
Page 5
prices, the availability of stocks, windfall profits on sales of cobalt,
and an exemption from supplementary export duties, the company is expected to
make a profit in 1976. Nevertheless, GECAMINES is likely to experience a
US$55 million cash shortfall in 1977, which may impede project implementation.
The transfer of marketing responsibilities to SOZACOM, a Zairian state-company,
has caused delays in the financing of GECAMINES shipments. SOZACOM's activi-
ties are being closely monitored.
Credit 536 Third Highway Project; US$26 Million Loan of March 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 31, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project, which is a continuation of the Second Highway Project,
is designed to build up an efficient highway administration, to initiate
sound highway sector planning and to assist with the rehabilitation of a key
road. It consists of the following elements: (a) provision of technical
assistance to the Bureau of Roads; (b) organization of two pilot highway
maintenance schemes; (c) establishment of a countrywide logistic support
system for highway maintenance; (d) rehabilitation of the gravel surfaced
Kabinda-Kindu road (about 600 km); (e) a highway traffic survey; and (f)
feasibility studies affecting about 1,500 km of roads. The total cost of the
project, estimated at US$40 million including taxes, is financed jointly by
IDA, UNDP, the Belgian and French governments and the Government of Zaire.
Consultants are carrying out a feasibility study of the Kikwit-Kananga road
and consultants have been retained to assist with the establishment of the
logistic support system for highway maintenance. The maintenance is progres-
sing satisfactorily. A contract has been awarded for the first part of the
Kabinda-Kindu road and the Government intends to carry out work on the second
section with its own force. The standard of work to be done on the third
section will be reconsidered at the end of this year when costs are better
known. The feasibility studies are progressing satisfactorily and an early
report was submitted in May. The final report is expected at the end of the
year.
Credit 571 Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project provides (a) technical assistance to ONATRA, including
a comprehensive training program; (b) finance for a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railroad
improvements and track renewal; and (c) funds for additional river markings
on the Kasai river, port studies and a preliminary engineering study for
the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. All agencies of ONATRA are limited in their
operational capacities by a spare parts shortage, resulting from the lack
of foreign exchange. Some relief is in sight from the promise of recently
allocated foreign exchange from stevedoring receipts at Matadi Port. The
Matadi-Kinshasa port development study is still delayed, pending approval of
the consultants' contract. In spite of recently approved tariff increases,
ONATRA's financial situation will continue to be critical until firm action
is taken to control it as well as reduce costs. Its operating losses are
expected to reach some Z 15 million in 1976. Declining traffic, collection



ANNEX II
Page 6
problems, lack of discipline and general instability compound ONATRA's
financial problems. ONATRA has recently embarked on a Plan de Redressement
(which was prepared with Bank staff assistance) designed to improve the
financial situation. We will carefully monitor the execution of this plan.
Credit 525 Water Supply Project; US$21.5 Million Credit of June 18, 1976;
Effective Date: August 4, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1979.
The project comprises construction and expansion of production and
distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, engineering consultant services for the six cities, a comprehensive
training program and feasibility studies for additional water supply projects.
REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for water supply and electricity
in Zaire, is the executing agency. The project, which is cofinanced by ADB
and BADEA, will finance approximately half of REGIDESO'S investment program
for 1975-78. Project execution is satisfactory. All bid documents have been
issued and all contracts are expected to be awarded in early 1977.
Second Education Project - A US$21 Million Credit was approved by the Board on
April 13, 1976 but HAS NOT BEEN SIGNED YET.
The project is intended to provide facilities for training rural
primary teachers and agricultural technicians; it comprises (a) construction,
equipping and furnishing of five rural primary teacher training institutes;
(b) rehabilitation and repair of six agricultural technician training insti-
tutes and one higher institute of agricultural studies; (c) a fellowship
program to aid the efficient functioning of the project institutions;
(d) the evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project institutions;
(e) the carrying out of preinvestment studies in preparation for a further
education project. After the project was presented to the Executive Direc-
tors in April of this year, contract negotiations between the Government and
the private architectural firm previously designated for the project broke
down. The Government then proposed that the Centre National de Constructions
Scolaires (CNCS), a school design unit within the Ministry of Education, do
the architectural work. Since this unit is at present not equipped to handle
this work, we have requested the Government to submit a plan for strengthening
the CNCS so as to enable it to carry out is obligations under the project.
The credit will be signed after this plan is approved.



ANNEX III
Page 1
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:     Office National des Fibres Textiles (ONAFITEX), and Office
des Routes (OR)
Amount:          US$8 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Project
Description:   Rehabilitation of cotton production in the Ubangi and cotton-
growing areas of the Mongala sub-regions of the Equateur
Region, including administrative and financial reorganization
of the cotton buying system; a road improvement program;
improvement of agricultural extension services; construction
of housing and procurement of vehicles; carrying out of an
organizational and management study of ONAFITEX to strengthen
its accounting system and financial controls; development of
an insect control program; rehabilitation of a research sta-
tion and the existing ginneries and execution of studies
necessary for future projects.
Project                                                    IN US$ Million
Costs:                                            Local     Foreign     Total
Transport and Marketing             0.51       1.29       1.80
Roads and Bridges                   0.94       1.81       2.75
Agricultural Services               0.67       2.51       3.18
Regional and Head Office Staff      0.29       1.20       1.49
Ginneries                           0.10       0.47       0.57
Insecticide Program                 0.05       0.45       0.50
Studies, Project Preparation
and Evaluation                    0.11       0.29       0.40
Physical Contingencies              0.16       0.49       0.65
Expected Price Increases            1.45       1.80       3.25
Total Project Cost         4.28      10.31      14.59



ANNEX III
Page 2
Onlending      Except for the road component of the credit, about US$2.6 mil-
Terms        lion, which would be a contribution to the budget of the
Bureau of Roads, the Borrower will relend the credit to ONAFITEX
for 15 years, including four years of grace at an interest rate
of 6 percent per annum.
Estimated                                  (US$1,000)
Disbursements:  FY           1977    1978    1979     1980    1981
Annual          800    1,900   2,000   2,300   1,000
Cumulative             2,700   4,700   7,000   8,000
Financing
Plan                  Foreign Exchange      Local Currency      Total
IDA            7.2                  0.8           8.0
AGCD            3.1                                3.1
Government                          3.5           3.5
Total           10.3                4.3           14.6
Procurement
Arrangements:      Procurement of vehicles and equipment would be through
international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines and will allow for the usual
preferences to domestic suppliers of the amount of
duties, or 15 percent, whichever is lower; contracts
for goods of less than US$50,000 equivalent would
be awarded under normal government procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Association. Civil works
contract(s), except for the Lua River bridge(s), would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with government procedures, which
are satisfactory to the Association. Retroactive
financing in the amount of US$350,000 for expenditures
after March 1, 1976 for ginnery spare parts and a
consultant to advise on financial reform is included.
The Lua River bridge(s) (US$350,000) would be awarded
after international competitive bidding, and a preference
of 7-1/2 percent for local contractors is provided in
this case.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Consultants:                                                 Man-Years
ONAFITEX Headquarters - Study of
organization and management,
Chief Accountant and Liaison
and Supply Officer                          8
Equateur Regional Directorate,
experts to help implement
the project                                43
51
Economic Rate
of Return:    23 percent.
Estimated Project
completion date: December 31, 1980
Appraisal Report:  A report entitled "Appraisal of the Zaire Cotton Rehabilitation
Project" (No. 1179-ZR, dated September 3, 1976) is being
distributed separately.



BRD 1I63R
.rCEW  AFRICAN .!,   SUDAN                                                                                                                               AUGUST ISMS
CAMEROON         -E              19                        20                          2                         22\ 2A
___-  __ I / ~ OF MAP
GABONR        REPUBLIC                   L  I'll "I,, 'IO 'IO -11, 01                             REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
OF                                MILES i  R I  P 0 A            COTTON REHABLiUTAT1ON PROJECT
,) CF'r        1 .. Z A R  E           -uruNn0 r0p o ID 2G 3D5G 7GO E iG  'I00 'O100
l,trnoshns            .). .Z                OOMETERS                                 *";'.iS  2'h  Project Area Boondory
AR5   Cotton Ginneries and Reference Numbers              N
- -   j   >_ i<,                                                 _   Pri.ory Roads (R.I.G. Priority)
>   \ ZAMBIlA  .                                                      Secondory Roods (R I G. Second Priority)
A-GOLA   C-. Y -                   \      A   N                                           Secondary Road Rehabilitotion
- --Rural Roads
Ti,e hu,U,,n'   A.oil -/  -'-    m     oo                       e-                       0. -IAB A  Milor Bridge Construction
_5  zn/  '.ndorrnem lori,ftcFrtpae  ni ll rh  .Ailil?z ele  s d_                            _ _   Otrr    -Rnr,
Tht oNd-r me.- ltAlN,rl                                                                        Oths, 3  YBridges -R o
i$W iairAR,i,wid    ~A-------                                                                  Railway,s
-        ,,'o                               ports
'V                              Ri7Grt   t4 d 3uto                     Rivers                                 ,,; o,
- --f l  G g/   _ Provmncol Boundorles
t                             oRnDul-                               International Boundories
cScmAadia                      Gab   ~       0                                                                17i 
%( =~o                      30Sgo  _ bo  B1
-4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIO                      Aad           AAiA           /                     jFtrY~''*~~  * -.  , h         T ;
f<ri.; '  ( Golabo  \                                                                                                       RoPombwondo | 1, \  Id
u t   <uX                  Kogbo        >                                                  w>;;         > ;  j- /       --       t
7 Boyabo                                         Bodongob                            Ab'.rn:                \'b.AI Bo  ' .
L  ge     R r  N  Bob,s_ Boo                                                         ..r
C '         MontenGe                             Kcrcmd   )/F,
- Ve> Bombomgo         Robindui      -oi
*  !    m      OR       Robokalo    cnsele  I
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uu rii                                                             1
Gele                     o  12-  2n.          21-                                                                          W 23
,~~~~~~~'**~~~~~~~~~
'IO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IS'                 IA'~~~~~~~9                20'                         1                         23'23



-Tr'  N  I G  E R                          IJL,R1975
JoTrtM}>. '  CHAD           CENTRAL       AFRICAN      REPUBLIC
*       ~~      ~~A SUDAN  CETA
,'                                                              Ai o~  $ U D AN
rCEN AFR REP.        1 bANGUI
DCBETfQ W O A Aof r-                                                                ' - 
,     RErLU8LIC ;,@ .t~\. . ,LAbpn                ROOAO?               |>+
-  L   ZAIRE                                                       OFbo2eec/Fbc  w
AtJontic OcRAR  IJ       -2E  {1oz r-_          Lsl9   u                          I ren__   te
--  *-'  c2'  IRAOO,  lop~~~~~~~~~~~~U~' 
y__  jx i,,,) |;  /  <                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K/BALI /TUR/ 9
NbMIA  I '  Z
-4 BAT WANA'
// ARANOA .CLILVFTT CEA!T 1?AiE                        e    v UGAND
O-GABONVO M5ANDAKA                                            KISANGAM                5-,
V     REPU8LIC                 OF      #    t    SNobund9           5UKAtlUB-    RWGANDA,1
X 8\ 0 K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ongJR                                         U' ,ATrontk
ARAZAVLL MAotodl                                                                    8URKggg;  Jl-o1S   ZNDI
o  A    A    0 N  AoRb_
RPUI      O ZEPUBREd                                                            BUKAVU
_ .                SK.b-b     TZANIA
S)         .    KltrNETEFS              l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,k  
A\    ,NGOLA    100    2pp     zpp          f              ar    ,K                  a
APet
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
COTTON PRODUCTION
COTTON                                                     Z M  I
Atlfantic                     AOTWS
Ocean           *~~~~~n~~-~~-~~  AVILROADS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIE5                           UAOO        ARAI
I                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
JR  _ _ _   _   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p



