Report No. 1179-ZR
Appraisal of the
Zaire Cotton Rehabilitation Project
September 3, 1976
Eastern Africa Regional Office
General Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               -     Zaire (Z), X1.00 = 100 makuta (K)
Z 1.00                            1 1 SDR (Special Drawing Right) = US$ 1.15
US$ 1.00                    -     Z 0.87
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)              -     2,471 acres (ac)
1 Kilogram (kg)             -     2,205 pounds (lb)
1 Ton (metric)              -     1,000 kg (2,205 lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
AGCD                        -     Administration Générale de la Coopération
au Développement
(General Administration for Development
Aid)(Belgium)
CFDT                        -     Compagnie Francaise pour le Développement
des Fibres Textiles
(French Company for the Development of
Textile Fibers)
COMINQ=M                    -     Combinat Industrial de Gemena
(Gemena Industrial Consortium)
FAC                         -     Fonds d'Aide et Coopération
(Fund for Aid and Cooperation)
INEAC                       -     Institut National  pour les Etudes
Agronomiques du Congo
(National Institute for Agronomic Study
in the Congo)
INERA                       -     Institut National des Etudes et de
Recherches Agronomiques
(National Institute for Agronomic Study
and Research)
ONAFITEX                    -     Office National des Fibres Textiles
(National Textile Fiber Bureau)
ONATRA                      -     Office National de Transport
(National Transport Bureau)
OR                          -     Office des Routes
(Road Bureau)
GOVERNMENT OF ZAIRE FISCAL YEAR
1 January to 31 December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS   .............................    i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION   ........................................                              1
II.    BACKGROUND   ..........................................                              2
A.    General   ........................................                            2
B.    Agricultural  Sector   ............................                           2
C.    Cotton  Industry   ................................                           3
D.    Agricultural  Services   ..........................                           5
III.    THE PROJECT AREA   ....................................                               6
rV.    THE PROJECT   .........................................                              9
A.    Project Description   ............................                            9
B.    Detailed  Features   ..............................                           9
C.    Project  Costs   ..................................                          16
D.    Financing   .......................................                          17
E.    Procurement   ....................................                           18
F.    Disbursement   ...................................                           18
G.    Accounts  and Audits   ............................                          19
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   .........................                             19
VI.    YIELDS,  PRODUCTION, MARKETS,  PRICES,  FARMERS'
BENEFITS AND GOVERNMENT  BUDGET   ......................                           21
A.    Yields and Production   ..........................                           21
B.    Marketing   ......................................                           22
C.    Prices   .........................................                           22
D.    Farmers'  Benefits   ..............................                          23
E.    Government  Budget   ..............................                          23
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..........................                               24
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                         ............     25
I  This document has a retticted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutia. Itb contents may not otherwise be discloed without Worid Bank authorization.






TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNFXES
1.   Cotton Development
Table 1. Cotton Development
Table 2. Farm Budgets
Table 3. Returns to Labor
2.   Agricultural Services
3.   ONAFITEX
Table 1. Balance Sheet - Equateur Region
Table 2. Existing Equateur Regional Expenses
Table 3. ONAFITEX Cash Flow
4.   A.  Guidelines for Management Consultant
B. Draft term of reference for consultant staff
5.   Production, Marketing and Pricing of Cotton
Table 1. Development of Cotton Seed Production
Table 2. Production, Imports and Exports of Cotton
Table 3. Timing of Seed Cotton Purchases
Table 4. Timing of Deliveries of Seed Cotton
Table 5. Average Transport Distance for Seed Cotton
Table 6. Timing of Cotton Ginning
Table 7. Processing Capacity of Ginneries for a Five-month Season
Table 8. Farmgate Prices
Table 9. Distribution of Earnings from Sale of Lint



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES (Continued)
6.   Project Costs
Table 1.  Cost Summary
Table 2. Cotton Buying and Transport
Table 3. Roads and Bridges
Table 4. Agricultural Services
Table 5. ONAFITEX Regional and Head Office
Table 6. Ginneries
Table 7. Insect Control
7.   Transport Aspects and Proposed Road Component
Table 1.  Routine Maintenance Program
Table 2. Grading of Secondary Roads
Table 3. Rehabilitation of Secondary Roads
Table 4. Summary Rehabilitation of Roads
Table 5. Construction and Repair of Roads
Table 6. Equipment Needs
Table 7. Estimated Costs
8.   Economie Cost-Benefit Analysis
9.   Government Cash Flow
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Implementation Schedule
CHART     Organization
MAPS
1.   Cotton Growing Areas (IBRD 11732)
2.   The Project Area (IBRD 11863)



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Zaire used to be an important producer of cotton, but production
has fallen from 180,000 tons of seed cotton in 1959 to an estimated 50,000
tons in 1975, and it is likely to decline further. At the same time Zaire's
internal needs for cotton have grown, and at the current production levels
only a small exportable surplus is produced. The Zaire Governnent is anxious
to increase cotton production and aims to reach the pre-1960 level of 180,000
tons. Government's priority is to increase export earnings, and rehabilita-
tion of the cotton industry would aid this as well as increasing the earnings
of small-scale farmers.
ii.       All cotton is bought from the growers by the Office National
des Fibres Textiles (ONAFITEX), a state-owned corporation that is also
responsible for the transporting and ginning of seed cotton and for the
sale of cotton lint to local textile mills or to overseas buyers. ONAFITEX
was set up in 1971 to take over from the Belgian companies that had previously
handled the buying, ginning and marketing; it has suffered from organizational
difficulties and a lack of experienced management staff; because it has not
been able to handle cotton buying efficiently, there have been long delays
between the cotton harvest and the time cotton was bought. As a result,
cotton producers, who are all subsistence farmers, have become discouraged
and have lost interest in growing cotton; they have either neglected their
cotton so that yields have declined or have gone out of cotton production
altogether.
iii.      The proposed Project would, over four years, improve cotton buying,
transporting and ginning operations in the Equateur Region, to be carried
our by ONAFITEX with the assistance of a management team to be provided by
a consulting firm: it would provide lorries for transporting the cotton
and qualified personnel and equipment needed for the overhaul and maintenance
of the ginneries and maintenance of the transport fleet. To aid ONAFITEX in
improving its organization and financial control, the Project would include
procurement of consultant services to advise on overall organizational im-
provements for the long term, and to propose and implement reforms in its
financial control and accounting. The Project would include rehabilitation
and maintenance of about 1,200 km of primary and 560 km of secondary roads
in-the Equateur Region, and for the construction of one major bridge or two
smaller bridges and repairs and reconstruction of a number of minor bridges.
The Project would also continue and expand the agronomic trials that have
been under way since 1972 as part of the French technical assistance program,
Providing staff and materials to carry out research, trials and demonstrations,
and training local extension staff, thus laying the foundations for an ex-
panded extension service that, it is hoped, could follow in a later develop-
ment phase after the completion of the Project. The Project would also in-
clude studies needed to prepare future cotton development projects.



- ii -
iv.       The Project would be executed by the ONAFITEX Regional Directorate
at Gemena, under the general supervision of the Head Office at Kinshasa.
ONAFITEX itself is responsible to the State Commissioner for Agriculture,
and its Director General and his Deputy are appointed bv the President of
the Republic. Direct responsibility for the day-to-day management of the
Project would lie with the Regional Director provided under the Project.
The Project staff would also include a Chief Accountant at ONAFITEX Head
Office to handle Proiect accounts and assist ONAFITEX in implementing
accounting reforms proposed by the consultant, and a Regional Accountant
in Gemena who would handle Project accounts in the Region and assist in
improving the Regional accounting system. Implementation of the road
rehabilitation and maintenance program would be by the Office des Routes
(OR), a Government agency under the supervision of the Department of Works
responsible for road maintenance. The OR would use equipment provided to
ONAFITEX under the Project, and ONAFITEX would pay OR for the costs of the
road program.
v.        Project costs are estimated at US$14.6 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$10 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0
million would finance 70% of the foreign exchange costs of the Project
and 19% of the local costs. The remaining proportion of the foreign ex-
change component covers the cost of consultant technical staff which will
be financed by the Belgian Administration Generale de la Cooperation au
Developpement (AGCD) and the Government of Zaire would finance local costs,
amounting to 21% of the total Project cost. Procurement of equipment and
vehicles in orders exceeding US$50,000 would be by international competitive
bidding: civil works (US$1.3 million) would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally; road and minor bridge rehabilitation
would be contracted to qualified local organizations; contractors for bridge
construction would be selected on the basis of competitive bidding. Because
of their small size and scattered locations these items are not likely to
attract international bidders.
vi.       The Project would increase production of seed cotton in Equateur
Region from an estimated 4,500 tons in 1975 to 12,600 tons in Year 4 of the
Project. The estimated value of the incremental annual production is US$3.1
million (1976 dollar terms) at forecast world market prices. An additional
3,400 tons of cotton seed wîll be produced annually by the Project: this
will be sold to a new oil seed mill, just beginning operations in Gemena, at
an estimated value of USS200,000.
vii.      The economic rate of return of the Project would be 23% over a
20-year period. If Project costs should be 15% above the estimated amount
the rate of return would fall to 18%: if the benefits should be 15% below
the estimate the rate of return would fall to 17%, and for both of these
eventualities should occur together the rate of return would be 12%. The
road improvement program, by opening areas that are at present only par-
tially accessible, will bring additional benefits that cannot be quanti-
fied. As a result of the Project, cash incomes of subsistence farmers
would rise by 74%, from USS10.00 to USS19.00 per farm family, in the for-
est areas (39,000 families) and 83%, from USA16.0O to USS29.00 per farm
family in savannah areas (45,000 families).



viii.     This Project wouId he the second Bank r(roup agricultural project
in Zaire. The First Livestock nroject, supported bv an IDA credit of i7SFté.5
million (1973), suffered at the start from management difficulties but these
are being resolved.  A second Livestock Project has recently been appraised.
ix.       With the indicated assurances, the Droposed Project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of JSM8.O million.






ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Seed cotton production in Zaire has dropped from about 180,000 tons
in 1959 to 50,000 tons in 1975. Production reached its lowest point in 1969/
70 when cotton had to be imported to supply Zaire textile mills; production
recovered briefly thereafter but is now declining again. Delays in buying
the cotton after the harvest discouraged farmers: poor organization in the
marketing of seed cotton, the critical condition of the feeder road network,
lack of availability of farm inputs and absence of efficient extension serv-
ices are the main reasons for the sharp decline in cotton production. The
Government of Zaire attaches a high priority to increasing export earnings;
expansion of cotton production would meet this aim as well as substituting
for imports to meet the needs of the local textile mills, and improving the
earnings of smallholders, many of whom have no alternative sources of cash
income. The proposed Project intends to reverse the declining trends of
cotton production in Equateur region through (a) timely purchase of cotton;
(b) improved roads and transport; (c) rehabilitation of ginneries; and (d)
improving the organization and operation of ONAFITEX.
1.02      The Govertment first sought Bank assistance for a cotton project
in 1969; three successive FAO/CP missions in 1969/70 resulted in preparation
of a Cotton and Food Crops Development Project in the Ubangi and Ueles areas
in 1970, but the Bank pre-appraisal mission in 1971 rejected the proposal
on technical grounds, because of the inadequacy of the institutional arrange-
ments for the cotton industry, and because of security difficulties in the
Ujeles. With French Technical Assistance, a small pilot scheme of trials vas
started in Ubangi in 1972, and in 1974, using these trials as a base, FAO/CP
prepared a project for Ubangi and Mongala sub-regions, which forms the basis
of the Government's present request. This envisaged the recruitment of 350
extension agents, provision of spraying equipment and insecticides, the de-
velopment of food crop production and the improvement of roads and cotton
transport. The proposed Project, however, differs substantially from that
proposed by the Government. To minimize the risks of the Project and to
avoid overstraining the institutional structure of the implementing agency,
the proposais vere reduced in scope and in time period to the four-year
project now proposed which would focus on the marketing of cotton by making
it more attractive to smallholder farmers; expansion of extension of services
and the provision of agricultural inputs to increase cotton and foodcrop yields
is envisaged as a second stage. While in general agricultural policy in Zaire
is directed to plantation agriculture, rather than to subsistence farming,
this Project is the first to be submitted to the Bank having some impact on
small-scale farmers. If proved successful, the Project could be followed up
by a second phase which could include a broader based rural development ef-
fort.



-2-
1.03      The only on-going Bank Group agricultural project in Zaire is a
Livestock Development Project. The project vas slow getting underway and
initially experienced managerial and technical difficulties which are now
being resolved.
1.04      The Project vas prepared with assistance from an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program Mission in 1974 and submitted to the Bank in January 1975. The Project
was appraised in May 1975 by Messrs. Le Breton, Tamboli, Marticou and du Mee
(IDA). The road component was appraised by Mr. Doyen of the Bank's Resident
Mission in Zaire.
Il. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Zaire lies astride the equator between latitudes
60 North and 120 South. It covers 2.3 million square kilometers and is the
third largest country in Africa. The population in 1974 vas about 24 mil-
lion, growing at 2.6% p.a.; about 70% live in rural areas.
2.02      Most of the country has a wet tropical climate but the plateau
areas of the southeast and the mountainous areas along the eastern border
have cooler and more temperate regimes. A vide variety of crops can be
grown and the natural grassland and forests are capable of a vide range of
development. The rivera and lakes are vell stocked vith fish and the rivera
provide nearly 15,000 kilometers of navigable vaterways and considerable hy-
droelectric potential. There are significant deposits of copper, gold, dia-
monds and cobalt.
2.03      Zaire became independent in 1960 and until 1965 vent through a
period of political turbulence. The economy began to recover in 1967,
spurred by rising copper prices. GNP grev 9.5% on average in 1969 and
1970 but at less than 5% in 1971 and about 4% since 1973. Per capita
income in 1974 is estimated at around US$150.
2.04      In 1974 the value of exports vas Z 660 million (US$1,320 million)
of which minerals accounted for 80% and agriculture 15%; imports vere about
Z 952 million.  Principal agricultural exports are palm oil, coffee, rubber,
tea and wood products, while the main imported items are cereals, fish meal,
dairy products, meat, fruits, vegetables and tobacco.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.05      The contribution of agriculture to GDP in 1973 is estimated at
15%; 43% of agricultural production is attributed to commercial enterprise
and 57% to the traditional sector. The cotton sub-sector contributes about



13% of the value added of marketed agricultural production. Seventy percent
of the population makes its living from agriculture and about 307 of the
wage earning population work on the land. About 20% of the rural population
grow cotton. Per capita income in rural areas is estimated at $25.
2.06      Onlv about 1% of the land is cultivated.  Equatorial rain forests
cover 45% of Zaire: the remainder of the land mass consists of savannah,
mountains, swamps, lakes and rivers. Traditional agriculture is pursued by
some 3 million farming families. Under the traditional system of tenure,
the land is held by the tribe and the tribal chief allocates fields to indi-
vidual families. Because of the prevalence of shifting cultivation and
burning of forests to clear the land, a family is allocated as many as 5 or
6 different plots (the average size of a plot is 0.4 ha). According to an
unpublished census, there were about 1,700 commercial plantations in 1970,
each with more than 30 ha under cultivation.
2.07      Palm oil, coffee and rubber are the main export crops.  With the
exception of coffee, production and export of these crops has been declining
since 1970, and in spite of favorable prices on the world market, the latest
figures show the share of agricultural products to be about 18% of total
exports. The value-added of agricultural production in 1974 (the latest year
for which data are available) was estimated at Z 149 million (US$298 million
at the 1974 exchange rate) of which Z 66 million was for export and Z 51
million was of marketed food crops. After a long period of decline, agricultural
production began to rise in 1966 and increased considerably through 1967-70, but
despite this increase food crops production (maize, cassava, plantain, rice and
groundnuts) has still been lagging behind population growth. About 250,000 tons
of cereals were imported in 1974 to meet the increasing demand in urban areas.
2.08      Agriculture has suffered from the low priority given to it by
Government resulting in only small governmental expenditures for the sector.
Up to 1973, the sector received less than 2% of the general budget and 4%
of the investment budget. In 1974, however, about 6% of the investment
budget was allocated to agriculture. In addition to the resulting weak
institutional framework for agriculture, the sector suffers other constraints
in the form of poor transport facilities and the inadequacy of research pro-
grams. Until recently, restrictive pricing and taxation policies have held
back agricultural production, but these are now being modified.
C. Cotton Industry
2.09      Cotton production (Annex 1):  Cotton is by far the most extensively
cultivated textile fiber in Zaire; other fibers grown in the countrv include
urena (annual production about 3,000 tons) and sisal (about 200 tons). The
historical growth of cotton production is presented in Table 1, Annex 5.
Currently the total area under cotton is estimated at 250,0M0 ha, worked by
some 600,000 families, cultivating on average 1/3 - 1/2 ha of cotton per



- 4 -
familv. Cotton cultivation is compulsory, although neither its enforcement bv
Government nor compliance by farmers are such that dependable results can be
exnected with regard to either the area sown to cotton or its vield. Cotton
is generallv grown in rotation with groundnut, maize, banana, and cassava. In
1Q73 total production reached 67,000 tons (seed cotton) in the 5 main regions
(map 1): Haut Zaire (18,840 tons), Equateur (12,700 tons), Kasai (17,500
tons), Shaba (6,500 tons), and Kivu (1l,600 tons). With the exception of
Kasai (Gandajika), where there is a FED-financed cotton project, agricul-
tural practices are in general primitive. No inputs are used and yields are
verv low, averaging 15n-200 kg of seed cotton per ha. However, Zaire has
a great potential for cotton production. which in 1959 was estimated at
180,000 tons. From 1959-66 cotton production dropped drastically to a low of
13.000 tons and Zaire had to import large quantities of cotton to supply its
textile mills. During 1966-73 there was a steady increase in cotton produc-
tion but as a result of organizational difficulties of l'Office National des
Fibres Textiles (ONAFITEX) cotton production again declined and in 1975 is
expected to have been less than 50,000 tons (seed cotton), of which Equateur,
the Prolect area, will produce about 4,500 tons. The Government of Zaire
is giving high priority to cotton development, and hopes to achieve the pre-
independence production level of 180,000 tons. This would not only supply
the local textile mills but would also increase exDort earnings.
Textile Mills
2.10      A number of textile companies both private and state-owned, are es-
tablished in Zaire, mainlv in Kinshasa, Lubumbashi and recently in Kisangani.
Their capacity, geared to meet the domestic demand for textiles, is about
18,000 tons cotton fiber p.a. (54,000 tons of seed cotton).
ONAFITEX (Annex 3)
2.11      In 1971 the Government established ONAFITEX as the monopoly agency
resDonsible for carrying out its cotton Policies. ONAFITEX is a state agency
(etablissement puhlic) with its own legal status and financial autonomy,
similar to that of a commercial operation. It is responsible to the State
Commissioner for Agriculture.  Its main functions are to (a) provide tech-
nical assistance to farmers growing fiber crops: (b) organize marketing (pur-
chasing the production from farmers. transDorting it to the processing mills
and selling it to the local textile mills or for export). ONAFITEX is man-
aged bv a Director General assisted by a Deputy Director General, both
appointed by the President of the ReDublic: he administers five Regional
Directorates and two Zones with a staff of about 3,100. ONAFITEX has suf-
fered from organizational weakness, especially a lack of experienced manage-
ment and poor financial control. It has not been able to organize the buying
and transport of seed cotton from the farmers nor to provide technical advice,
good qualitv seed and insecticides. ONAFITEX does not have adequate informa-
tion on its financial situation, but has financial difficulties and its posi-
tion is deteriorating.
Marketine, Processing and Prices (Annex 5)
2.12      The whole marketing and processin_ of cotton is the responsibilitv
0t ONAFITEX. Seed cotton is purchased from farmers hv 0'1AFITEY at collectine



- 5 -
centers. Fixed Government prices are now K 20/kg for first quality seed
cotton and K 15/kg second quality seed cotton. From the collecting centers,
cotton is transported to the ginneries either by ONAFITEX's own fleet or by
rented lorries. All the cotton ginneries were requisitioned by the Govern-
ment in 1972 and in 1974 handed over to ONAFITEX. At present ONAFITEX owns
about 60 ginneries with a total capacity of about 200,000 tons of seed
cotton p.a. After processing, ONAFITEX is in charge of transporting the
cotton bales from the ginneries to the textile mills or the port of Matadi
for export.  Cotton (fiber) prices delivered to textile mills were fixed by
the Government in 1969 at K 34 to K 42/kg according to variety and grade.
In 1975 the prices were raised to give an average price of about K 58/kg
fiber, delivered to the port at Kinshasa or the station at Kalemie or
Lubumbashi, and in 1976 were further raised to K 138/kg.
D. Agricultural Services
Ministry of Agriculture
2.13      This Minîstry is responsible for formulating agricultural policy,
implementing price and marketing policies, assisting its supporting agencies
and providing an adequate extension service. The Ministry îs headed by a
State Commissioner; under him the Director General of the Department of
Agriculture is responsible for five divisions, one administrative and four
technical. At present the Department staff consisets of 24 agronomists, 1/
20 veterinarians, 1,000 technical agents (Agents Techniques), and about
4,700 field agents (Moniteurs) distributed in nine administrative regions.
This is roughly equivalent to 1 field agent per 600 farm families throughout
the country.
Institut National des Etudes et de Recherche Agronomique (INERA)
2.14      Under the direction of the State Commissioner for Agriculture,
INERA is in charge of agricultural research in Zaire. Its activities are
mainly concentrated on oil palm, cocoa, coffee, cotton and livestock. The
Director General is responsible for 22 research stations distributed in
seven ecological zones. The annual INERA budget is about Z 1.7 million for
recurrent expenditures and about Z 0.3 million for investment, far below
what is needed to rehabilitate the research stations. Total INERA staff
is about 60 of whom 10 are Zairian and 50 are expatriates; before indepen-
dence there were about 400 technical staff in the research organization,
and 60 stations.
l!   Staff are graded as follows:  Agronomiats, Grade Ao, are university
graduates and A1 have diplomas. Technical Agents are Grade A2 and have
4 years training at an Ecole Professionalle Agricole (EPA). Moniteurs
are Grade A3 and have 3 years training at an EPA.



- 6-
University and Training Schools
2.15      Attached to the National Universitv, one iuniversity school and
two institutes for higher agricultural studies train agronomists at A and
A level respectively. Annual output is about 70 graduates for both Levels.
There are also 39 schools giving agricultural and animal husbandry training
at lower levels (A2 and A ). Annual output is about 1,100.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2
3.01      The Project area, extending over 59,000 km , comprises almost the
whole of the Ubangi and a small part of the adjacent Mongala sub-region (Map
IBRD 11732). This area is in the North-Western part of the Equateur region,
where the Ubangi river serves as the boundary between Zaire and the Central
African Republic. The regional headquarters of ONAFITEX are at Gemena, the
main town in the Project area: it is about 1,000 km from Kinshasa and 400 km
from Mbandaka, the administrative headquarters of the Equateur region.
Population
3.02      The total population of the Equateur region is estimated at about 1.5
million of whom Valf live in the Projgct area. Population densitv ranges from
7 inhabitants/km at Libenge to 28/km in Gemena. About 84,000 farming
families or about 450,000 people would benefit from the Project.
Climate
3.03      The climate is tropical with two rainy seasons, lasting from July
to November and from March to June. Average annual rainfall ranges from
1,600 mm to 1,900 mm in the forested part of the project area and from
1,300 mm to 1,700 mm in the area covered by savannah. The average monthlv
temperatures range from 24°C to 27°C. Climatic conditions are generally
suitable for a first short cycle crop (maize, groundnut) during the short
rainy season and for a cotton crop from July to December.
Soils
3.04      A reconnaissance study completed in 1960 indicates two main soil
zones, the northern savannah and the southern forest. The savannah soils
are lower in organic matter and in potential productivity than the forest
soils of the southern zone. Most of the soils are lateritic, highly weath-
ered and leached, have relatively high contents of iron and aluminum and low
silica content. The soils are generallv deficient in nitrogen and frequently
lack phosphorus, potash and lime.



- 7 -
Agriculture
3.05      The land belongs to the tribal community, but crops are always
individually owned. Land is cultivated on a shifting basis. A patch of
land in the forest or in the savannah is cleared and planted with differ-
ent crops for a number of years until its fertility drops. Few tools are
used; a small hoe to open holes for sowing crops and the matchet for har-
vesting; weeding and other cultural practices are done by hand without
the use of any tools. The average farm size is about 2 ha, of which 0.5
is under cotton, the remainder is sown with maize, groundnut, cassava and
plantain, and coffee in forest areas.
Agricultural Extension, Training and Research (Annex 2)
3.06      The present state of agricultural services is described in Annex 2.
About 80 technical Agents (A2) and 192 Field Agents (A3) are presently work-
ing in the Project area. In addition ONAFITEX has 27 agents who act as
extension workers when they are not occupied with buying cotton, and each
commune (administration subdivision) employs its own extension officer.
There are at present, under the Ministry of Agriculture, eight Rural Devel-
opment Centers (Centres du Develonpement Rural) in Ubangi and Mongala
sub-regions, five of which are within the Project area at Bokuda (Gemena),
Bulinga (Budjala), Buketa (Kungu), Libenge and Bili (Bosobolo). The annual
output of the center at Bokuda is presently 15 to 30 students a year who
receive a Certificat d'Aptitude Professionelle. This center is staffed by
a principal and 4 teachers. The other main schools for agricultural training
are the "Centres Agricoles Officiels des Jeunes" in Gemena, Lisala and BWmba,
with an annual output each of about 30 students, A3 level. These centers
used to be under the Ministry of Youth and Sports, but now are under the
Jeunesse du Mouvement Populaire de la Revolution (JMPR - Party Youth Wing).
Near Lisala is the "Centre d'Enseignement Secondaire" at Mondongo, a training
college under the auspices of the National University of Zaire (UNAZA) which
trains 25-30 students a year at the A and A2 levels. The main research
centers for cotton are the INERA stations at Bambesa (Haut Zaire) and
Gandajika (Kasai). These stations are doing work on producing new varie-
ties. Boketa is an INERA sub-station in the Project area, near Gemena; it
is staffed by two technical agents (A2 level) and six administrative officers.
This sub-station has 545 ha of land but its work is limited by lack of funds
and technical guidance. It does not engage in cotton research, but maintains
varietal collections and multiplies selected seed sent from other stations.
FAC-Financed Project
3.07      Since June 1972, the Regional Directorate of ONAFITEX at Gemena has
been receiving technical assistance from the CFDT (Compagnie Francaise pour
le Developpement des Fibres Textiles). This project, financed by French
bilateral assistance, Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), was operational
until May 1976: it provided five agronomists stationed at different locations
in the region and a team leader. The project aimed to:



- 8 -
(i) stimulate the extension service through adequate training
of local staff; and
(ii)  carry out an applied research program through extending
research activities in the administrative zones of Gemena,
Libenge, Bosobolo and Businga.
The CFDT team served only in an advisory capacity and its members had no
executive positions in ONAFITEX. It therefore had no authority to organlze
and supervise the extension staff belonging to three separate authorities
(para 3.06) and it was not able to achieve the firet objective. Some prog-
ress was made towards improvement of cultural practice.
Transport and Communication
3.08      The Project area is served by an extensive road network linking the
cotton production area, the ginning plants and the main embarkation ports on
the Ubangi and Zaire rivers. The main roads, built more than 30 years ago,
are indicated on the map (IBRD 11863). Most of the roads are not in good condi-
tion, but could be made serviceable for all year round use with proper mainte-
nance (Annex 7). Road maintenance is administered by Office des Routes (OR)
but as it does not have the organization or equipment to maintain them
itself, the work is contracted out to contractors or important users, includ-
ing, until recently, ONAFITEX. River transport, the quasi-monopoly of the
National Transport Office (Office National du Transport - ONATRA), provides
the only transport to and from Kinshasa. Main waterways and river ports
are indicated on Map IBRD 11863. On the Ubangi river, with ONATRA's present
equipment, commercial navigation is possible only up to Batanga.  There are
two main airfields, Gemena and Libenge, supported by a number of landing
strips; a new airfield is being built at Badolite. Air services are provided
by Air Zaire. There is no telephone link between Gemena and other towns in
Zaire and postal and telegraphic services are slow and unreliable. It is
essential for the efficient administration of the project that a radio tele-
phone network be set up both for communication between Kinshasa and Gemena
and between Gemena and the outlying ginneries, and ONAFITEX bas installed
the necessary equipment for this.
Health
3.09      The population in the Ubangi, Mongala and Bas-Uele sub-regions
suffers from goitre on an endemic scale. In the northern part of the
ProJect area as many as 50-80% of the population may be affected, and
it is believed to be the main cause for the high proportion of cretinism
and dwarfism which in some areas affects 2-5% of the population. An
eradication program has recently been started in the Gemena area.



IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
4.01      The Project would, over four years, stimulate the development of
cotton production in the Ubangi and Mongala sub-regions by improving cotton
buying, transporting and marketing, the road network, and the organization
and training of existing extension staff; and by overhauling the ginneries.
Specifically, the Project would include:
(a) the provision of trucks, vehicle maintenance equipment
and the services of a management team to be provided by
a consulting firm to allow ONAFITEX to organize the cotton
buying campaign as soon as possible after the harvest so
that farmers can be assured of an immediate market for
their cotton;
(b) the provision of equipment and working capital for
a road improvement program to support agricultural
development in the Project area;
(c) the setting up of improved agricultural extension
services by training local staff and supplying demon-
stration materials, insecticides and dusters for cotton
growers, and applied research in support of the Project;
(d) the development and improvement of the organization,
financial control and accounting systems of ONAFITEX
Head Office and Equateur Regional office, with the
assistance of a consultant team;
(e) spare parts and equipment to rehabilitate the existing
ginneries which are in urgent need of overhaul and
spare parts.
4.02      The Project would be executed by ONAFITEX under the overall manage-
ment of the Regional Director, provided under the Project. The research pro-
gram would use the existing facilities of INERA in the Project area, which
is under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture and at negotiations the
Government agreed that a final agreement to this effect would be made by
June 30, 1977 between ONAFITEX and INERA.
B. Detailed Features
Cotton Transport and Marketing (Annex 5)
4.03      In the past, lack of adequate transport facilities has severely
hampered ONAFITEX's ability to buy and transport cotton from the field to
the ginneries promptly after the harvest. The Project would provide ONAFITEX



- 10 -
with sufficient trucks to transport all the seed cotton produced in the
Project area. The four months harvest period for the southern part of the
Project area opens and closes a month later than in the north, giving a total
harvest period for the whole region of five months, in the course of which
one truck can transport 400 tons of seed cotton. Fifteen trucks will be
needed in year 1, 20 in year 2, 25 in year 3 and 31 at full development in
year 4 of the Project. In the past, ONAFITEX vehicles have had a short life
because they have been running throughout the year, over bad roads, have been
badlv maintained and have often been off the roads for long periods for lack
of spare parts. iJnder the Project, vehicle life would be prolonged because
the roads would be improved (see para 4.04), proper stocks of spare parts
would be held and a maintenance supervisor would be recruited to establish
maintenance facilities as part of the management team (para 4.13) and to
train ONAFITEX's existing mechanics, and the trucks would only be running
part of the year, during the dry season. This would allow adequate time
for overhaul and would avoid the serious damage to the roads which results
from heavy traffic during the wet season. The Project would also provide
for the renovation of the main mechanical workshop in Gemena and secondary
workshop in Businga and the establishment of service stations in ginneries
that are far from Gemena. The building-up of in-house trucking capacity is
essential for the establishment of a reliable marketing organization. The
ONAFITEX truck fleet is used only seasonally and constitutes a heavy burden
from the viewpoint of finances and management. As cotton production increases
and as the condition of the road network improves, ONAFITEX should, in the
future, attempt to reduce the proportion of its direct involvement in truck-
ing by relying more, as far as is feasible, on private truckers for gathering
of cotton seed and evacuation of fibers and seeds. To encourage ONAFITEX to
limit its transporting and other activities to those provided for under the
Project, any investment by ONAFITEX Equateur Region of over US$100,000 in
any one year during the execution of the Project would be subject to prior
approval with the Association; an agreement to this effect was obtained at
negotiations.
4.04      The existing and proposed systems of buyinR cotton are described
in Annex 5.  In the Project area the system of buying would be concentrated in
two or three of the ginnery zones at one time; the cotton in those zones
would all be bought and transported before the buying teams move into the
next zones.  Transport of cotton would be arranged so that a team of trucks
would follow the buyers to collect the cotton bought iln that zone as soon as
possible after buying so that it would not have to be stored for long periods
in the villages. Sufficient storage facilities exist at most of the ginneries
to allow all the seed cotton bought in a zone to be stored at the ginnery
while awaiting ginning. The cotton is bought from the planters at about 600
buying centers in the Project area: these used to be maintained by the
villagers themselves, but as the returns from cotton declined so did their
interest in maintaining the buving centers. The Project would therefore
provide materîals for repairing and re-roofing the buying centers (under super-
vision of Project staff) to improve the storage conditions for seed cotton.
Roads (Annex 7 and Map IBRD 11863)
4.05      The Project area is served by a relatively well developed network
of low standard earth roads which, with minimum maintenance, Provide a



- il -
reasonable level of serviceabilitv given the low volume of traffic, i.e.,
5-50 vehicles a day. The terrain is easy and in general suitable for earth
roads especially in the savannah area. The major causes of road impractica-
bility are flooding of causeways and failure of bridges. The haphazard
operations of ferries also constitutes a serious obstacle to the establish-
ment of reliable road communications. It is therefore proposed to emphasize
repair and reconstruction of causeways and bridges and to include in the
Project the construction of one major bridge (80 m span) over the Lua
River on the Gemena-Bobisi-Libenge road or two smaller bridges on the
Gemena-Bokada road.
4.06      The road component of the Project would include:
(i) rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance of about
560 km of low-standard rural roads which at present
are unmaintained;
(ii) grading of about 1,200 km of secondary roads now
maintained under the responsibility of the Bureau
of Roads (Office des Routes, OR);
(iii) a program for reconstruction and repair of causeways
and bridges.
4.07      The road component of the Project would be carried out by the OR
which would establish special units in the Ubangi area for the purpose.
01AFITEX would:
(i)  procure and maintain equipment (dumpers, pick-up,
loaders and graders);
(ii) review and approve annual road and bridge programs
proposed by the OR as well as major decisions,
concerning award and administration of contracts; and
(iii) administer the funds necessary to finance the program.
ONAFITEX has had a poor record in maintaining more than 1,000 km of secondarv
roads entrusted to it by the OR over the last two years and its failure to
maintain its roads led the OR to cancel its contract and to entrust it
to other users. It is desirable that the OR, which officially is
responsible for road maintenance but lacks equipment, undertake the
program itself in order to keep the financial administration of the Project in
one organization. To avoid imposing an extra strain upon the limited
administrative capacity of the OR, ONAFITEX Regional office should exert
financial control over the road component, and would ensure maintenance of
the equipment until the OR establishes its own equipment support facilities.
The administrative arrangements for the execution of this part of the Project
would be defined in an agreement between the OR and ONAFITEX: conclusion of
such an agreement would be a condition of disbursement for this component.
4.08      The OPR would eventuallv assume responsibility for the maintenance
of the road equipment, for which it would need to establish an equipment



- 12 -
support base in the Project area. It should prepare plans acceptable to
IDA for such a base by June 30, 1978: and implement such plan by December 31,
1979: an assurance to this effect from Government vas obtained at negotia-
tions. The road component of the project has been designed as a supplement
to OR's current program of maintenance and rehabilitation of primary and
selected secondary roads in the Ubangi-Mongala region. It is essential for
the Project that OR's current maintenance activities be pursued and ampli-
fied. The following specific assurances were obtained to this effect.
(i) the OR would, by December 31, 1977, implement its
existing plan to staff the remaining two vacant posi-
tions of its five field representative posts in the
Project area and to set up a ferry unit in Gemena for
the maintenance and operation of ferries;
(ii) the OR would allocate sufficient funds, not less than
the average annual allocation of the past 3 years,
adjusted for inflation and changes in exchange rates,
for its current road maintenance program in the project
area (Annex 7, para 13);
(iii) the OR would establish a special unit in Gemena within
the first year of the Project to carry out the Project
road component;
(iv) the OR would carry out the agreed program of maintenance
for the Project and would continue the grading and main-
tenance program initiated under the Project after 1980.
Agricultural Services (Annex 2)
Extension
4.09      Existing extension services, described in Annex 2, are largely
ineffective, and the Project would aim to improve the existing service with-
out expanding it, so as to build a nucleus of trained, experienced extension
staff that could be expanded in a later phase. Under the Project, the 192
field agents (Moniteurs) of the the Ministry of Agriculture would be trans-
ferred to ONAFITEX to avoid the division of duties that presently hampers
coordination between services. The State Commissioner for Agriculture has
already taken the initial steps to put this reorganization into effect.
These agents would be provided with bicycles under the Project to enable
them to visit the farmers:  at present few, if any, have transport.  The
Project would include the recruitment of five cotton agronomiats as part
of the management team (para 5.02); they would be stationed in five cotton
agro-climatic zones in the Equateur region. The agronomists would expand
the program of trials in farmer's fields started by CFDT and set up demon-
stration trials to show farmers how cotton yields can be increased, using
only the tools available to them, by timely planting, correct plant densi-
ties, weed control and other improved basic cultural techniques. The agrono-
nists would also have the responsibility of training their Zairian deputies
and supervising the existing workers in their zones.



- 13 -
4.10      Tihe Project would inc-lude sunplying farmers with improved qualitv
.otton seed.  At present. farmers are plantinP Pebai B515 varietv, and seed
comes from IME%A researcli station at Bambesa, but t'te stock has not been re-
newed for several years and its puritv is douibtiful. The Project would obtain
supplies of new stock of Reeba B50 from the neighboring Central African
Republic, which can be multiplied at the INERA sub-station at Boketa and
in the Belgium aid project farm at Bili. The seed would be chenicallv
treated and distributed to the farmers bv ONAFITEX. The present svstem
of distributing cotton seed free of charge would be continued under the
Project to encourage farmers to use improved, treated seed instead of their
own poor quality seed.  The use of fertilizers would not be included in the
Project, since the evidence of the trials carried out to date by the CFDT and
earlier trials done by INEAC do not show any economic justification for the use
of fertilizer on cotton at present yield levels and present fertilizer prices in
this area. Newly designed fertilizer trials would, however, continue, using more
appropriate fertilizer mixes which are expected to show an economic return in the
future with higher yielding varieties and lower fertilizer prices. Use of
insecticide has shown promising results at the research station and, a large
number of demonstrations would therefore be conduicted on farimers' fields to
exhibit the yield potential by the use of imoroved agronomic practices alone
and in conjunction with insecticides.
Insect Control
4.11      The Project would include the purchase of insecticides and dusters to
be used as a means of establishing the most effective method of insect control
on a large scale.  While they wouild be available in the case of a sudden, severe
insect attack, it is not anticinated that thev would be used before the third
and fourth years of the Pro1ect, by which time training of Project extension
staff would have progressed far enough to permit a start on a wider scale.
Disbursement from the credit for such an expansion of the insect control
program would be sub;ect to plans, acceptable to the Association, being
drawn up by ONAFITEX and submitted to the Association, showing how insec-
ticides and dusters would be distributed to farmers.
Research
4.12      The Project would rehabilitate the INFRA sub-station at Boketa bv
staffing it rwith a qualified and experienced agronomist and providing a new
generator and some new laboratory eqtlipment. The station would support the
Project by trying out new varieties received from other stations, multi-
plying seeds for distribution to farmers and carrying out basic agronomic
trials. The Ministry of Agriculture, which has overall responsibility for
INERA, has agreed that the sub-station be used for the Project; confirma-
tion of this was obtained at negotiations.
Training
4.13      The Project would carry out a program to train the existing exten-
sion staff of ONAFITEX and the Ministrv of Agriculture who would be employed
under the Project. These have already had a basic traininç. in agronomv,
but need refresher training which would be clone bv the Proiect's cotton
asoronomists: the Projeet training officer would train staff in extension



- 14 -
techniques. The object of the training would be to improve the level of
performance of the existing service which at present lacks both motivation
and the means to carry out its task, so that there would he a nucleus of
competent staff to give in-service training for new staff in a future expan-
sion of the extension service.
Technical Assistance to ONAFITEX (Annex 3)
4.14      As ONAFITEX has the statutorY obligation to carry out all operations
relatinq to cotton production, the Project would be executed through ONAFITEX,
excepting the road program. It would, however, be necessarv to strengthen
ONAFITEX central management by the provision of certain key personnel (see
Chapter V for details) and to assist it in improving its accounting svstems
and financial controls insofar as these are needed for the successful imple-
mentation of the Project. In the long run, however, particularly if a further
cotton development project is to be considered, ONAFITEX should completely
review its structure, both in terms of finance and management so that it will
be able to operate successfully along commercial lines. Such reform would
not be part of the present Project, but the Project includes 12 man-months
of consultant time to study the needs and advise ONAFITEX on how to organize
its activities and financial and management structure. The study should be
carried out by December 31, 1978: appointment of consultants would be sub-
ject to the approval of the Association. The study would be reviewed jointly
by ONAFITEX and the Association. Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations.
4.15      ONAFITEX is engaging a consultant expert in organization and management,
in particular to assist in improving ONAFITEX's accounting systems both at the
Kinshasa head office and at the Equateur Regional Directorate. It is envisaged
that this expert would need to visit Zaire for about 3 months initially to make
proposals for improvement, and, after allowing ONAFITEX time to study his
proposals and take whatever preliminary steps that might be necessary, he
would return to assist in the implementation of his proposals. A part of
the foreign exchange costs of this consultant's visits (about US$33,000)
would be retroactively financed as part of the Project costs. Some guide-
lines for the consultant are given in Annex 4. The Project would provide
also for a chief accountant at the Kinshasa head office to keep the Proj-
ect accounts and to assist ONAFITEX in implementing the new procedures
proposed by the consultant, and at the Regional Office at Gemena to keep the
Project accounts for the region.
4.16      In addition, the Project would include recruitment of a team of
qualified and experienced staff from a consultant firm (para 5.02), to fill
the positions of Regional Director (who would act as Project Manager), Proj-
ect supply and logistics officer, extension agronomists, research agrono-
mist, maintenance supervisor and chief engineer. The functions of these
officers are described in more detail in Chapter V. The Project would
include construction of two extra houses in Gemena for this staff and one
at Bosobolo. Government will ensure that suitable housing would be avail-
able for Project staff, and an assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations.



- 15 -
Ginneries
4.17      There are ll glnneries in the Project area.  Their location is
shown on Map 11863, and their names and capacities are shown in Annex 5,
Table 8. There is sufficient ginning capacity in the region to meet all the
needs of the Project, at full development. At present they are not properly
maintained and overhauled, partly because they are running all year round
and are not closed during the off-season for overhaul, but also because
they lack spare parts. For some ginneries, the power supply needs replacing
as the existing facilities are too old to justify repair. Some of the gin-
nery buildings also need repairs and installation of electric lighting.
An inventory of the requirements has been made and, after review by ONAFITEX,
the orders for needed parts can be placed immediately. The Project would
include recruitment of a qualified and experienced ginnery expert for two
years to assist in the overhaul of the ginneries and to retrain staff in
maintenance of machinery. Sufficient spare parts to allow normal running
replacements must be kept in store at all times; the logistics and supply
officer provided for under the Project (see para 5.06) would ensure that
this is done and train Zairian staff to assume responsibility for this.
The Government has purchased 30 new gins of which 7 have been allocated to
the Project area. As the capacity of the existing gins is more than adequate
for present and future needs, erection of the new gins would not be economically
justified and is not therefore part of the Project. However, ONAFITEX should
study the possibility of replacing the old ginneries of Pandu, Dula and
Bubanda with a single large ginnery more centrally located, perhaps at
Bosobolo, and for this some of the new gins might be suitable (Annex 5,
para. 16).
Evaluation
4.18      Evaluation and monitoring of the Project's results must be an on-
going process throughout the duration of the Project. However, given the
existing weakness of ONAFITEX's organization great care must be taken not
to overburden the structure by adding yet another unit to handle evaluation
only: evaluation must be an integral part of the operations of the Project.
Yield data would be collected by the extension staff under the supervision
of the five field agronomists; this information would be collated by the
Regional Director and included in his regular reports. Evaluation of the
effectiveness of the Project services in achieving their objèctives and
their effect on yield would also be necessary, particularly if the Gov-
ernment envisages further cotton development projects. Discussions would
be held with Government to establish procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion to monitor performance of the Project. The National University of
Zaire, which has a department of agricultural economics at Kisangani, may
be an appropriate body to undertake this and has expressed its interest in
participating.



- 16 -
Preparation Studies
4.19      The Project would also include further studies of the cotton in-
dustry needed for preparation of a subsequent cotton project, to be selected
by the State Commissioner for Agriculture in consultation with the Director
General of ONAFITEX. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that studies
financed under the Project would be subject to the prior approval of IDA.
C. Project Costs (Annex 6)
4.20      Total Project cost including contingencies is estimated at Z 12.7
million (US$14.6 million) and the foreign exchange component is 71%. Detailed
cost items are as follows:
Zaires '000               US$ '000           Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total         z
Transport and
Marketing                    439   1,123    1,562       505   1,291   1,796       72
Roads and Bridges             818   1,575    2,393       941   1,811   2,752       66
Agricultural Services         583   2,185    2,768       670   2,513   3,183       80
Regional and Head
Office Staff                254   1,046    1,300       292   1,203   1,495       80
Ginneries                      86      410       496      99      471     570      83
Insect Control                 43      392      435       50      450     500      90
Studies, Project
Preparation and
Evaluation                   96      252      348      110     290      400      72
Base Costs                  2,319   6,983    9,302   2,667   8,029  10,696         75
Physical Contingencies         141     426       567     162      490     652      75
Price Contingencies         1,261   1,561    2,822   1,450   1,795   3,245         55
Total Project Cost          3,721   8,970   12,691   4,279  10,314  14,593         71
Costs have been estimated at May 1976 prices and cover capital costs and
incremental working capital. A physical contingency of 10% for the road
component and 5% for all other components has been included in the total



- 17 -
Project cost. Price contingencies have been calculated at rates taking into
consideration the effect of the very high rate of inflation in Zaire: for
local costs the contingency provision is 30% for 1977, 15% for 1978 and 10%
for 1979 and 1980. For foreign costs, the contingency provisions are: for
civil works, 12% for 1977-79 and 10% for 1980; for equipment, 8% for 1977-79
and 7% for 1980. Since ONAFITEX, as an agricultural production enterprise,
benefits automatically from certain exemptions on imported products includ-
ing agricultural materials and utility vehicles, no taxes or duties have
been included in the cost estimates, and income taxes which apply to local
salaries are not significant.
D. Financing
4.21      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
Zaires million   US$ million   % of Total
IDA                          6.9             8.0            55
Government                   3.1              3.5           24
Belgian AGCD                 2.7             3.1            21
12.7            14.6           100
The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would be on standard terms to
Government. It would finance 70% of the foreign exchange costs and 19%
of local costs. Following discussions with the Belgian Administration
Generale de la Cooperation au Developpement (AGCD) it is agreed in principle
that AGCD would finance the procurement of consultant services for the Proj-
ect as a grant to the Zaire Government. An exchange of letters between the
Belgian and Zairian governments confirming this would be a condition of the
Credit becoming effective. Government would on-lend the IDA credit, except
for the portion for the road program, to ONAFITEX at 6% for 15 years with
4 years grace period: this would be in line with commercial bank interest
rates on agricultural loans in Zaire. The conclusion of a financing agree-
ment on these terms between ONAFITEX and the Government would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness. Local costs of the Project, except for the road
program, would be met by ONAFITEX, which would generate sufficient revenue
from the Project to cover these costs. Local costs of the road program
would be met by a special allocation to the OR budget (Annex 7, para. 24).
Foreign exchange costs of the road program would be met out of the portion
of the IDA Credit not on lent to ONAFITEX, and would therefore be taken in
charge directly by the Government. In order to minimize the delays in
obtaining spare parts for the ginneries and to allow ONAFITEX to engage a
consultant to advise on financial reforms, retroactive financing, from
January 1, 1976, is proposed for an estimated amount of US$350,000. To
avoid the delays presently experienced by ONAFITEX in obtaining the necessary
credits and transferring them to Gemena for the cotton buying campaign, the
Government agreed, during negotiations, to ensure that sufficient funds are



- 18 -
available in advance to cover the needs for each season, and that these funds
should be transferred to Gemena by October 31 and December 31 each year. It
is a condition of effectiveness that Government will ensure the advance of
the funds for local costs of the Project twice a year to the Project account,
beginning with an initial advance of Z 200,000. These advances would be re-
covered by Government from ONAFITEX out of revenue generated by the Project.
E. Procurement
4.22      Procurement of vehicles equipment and supplies (US$3.0 million) in
orders exceeding US$50,000 vould be by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines; orders would be grouped wherever possible.
Local manufacturers may be granted a 15% margin of preference over foreign
bidders. Orders less than US$50,000 would be obtained under normal Govern-
ment procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. The civil works con-
tracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally. Contractors for the repair of bridges would be selected by the
OR on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally. The scattered
locations and small size of the amounts involved for the civil works ($1.3
million) and the bridges ($600,000) are not likely to attract international
bidding (Annex 7, paragraph 19). Road rehabilitation works would be done
by the Office des Routes.
F. Disbursement
4.23      Disbursement of funds from the credit account would be on the
following basis:
(a)  100% of foreign exchange expenditure on ginnery
machinery;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures or 75% of local
expenditures on vehicles, equipment and agri-
cultural materials;
(c)  40% of total expenditures on civil works:
(d)  for the road component, 70% of total expenditures
for grading and rehabilitation; 70% of the cost of
construction of the Lua river bridges, and of
the cost of repair and construction of other bridges;
(e)  60% of total expenditures on incremental costs for
vehicle running and housing maintenance;
(f)  100% of foreign exchange expenditures or 90% of the
local costs on evaluation and studies by consultants.



- 19 -
Disbursements of funds from the credit for the above would be fully docu-
mented. Any funds remaining in the credit account at the end of the Proj-
ect would be reallocated at the discretion of the Association. The schedule
of estimated disbursements is shown in Annex 10.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.24      Accounts ta reflect the costs of the various Project components
would be maintained by the Project's accounting unit and would be kept sepa-
rate from the rest of ONAFITEX's accounts. ONAFITEX's full accounts, includ-
ing separate accounts for Project expenditure, would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of each flnancial year. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Overall responsibility for the execution of the Project would lie
with ONAFITEX (Annex 3). ONAFITEX is organized in Regional Directorates,
each headed by a Regional Director responsible to the Directorate General
in Kinshasa. As the Project would cover the whole of the Equateur Region,
its Regional Directorate which is in itself a self-accounting unit, woisld
become the Project unit. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
the Regional Directorate would be given the operational and financial auto-
nomy necessary for it to execute the project. The Equateur region would
maintain separate accounts, to start with a new balance sheet at the onset
of the Project period, to ensure that Project generated revenues (after
appropriate deductions for Head Office expenditures) are received in Project
accounts. The Regional Director would have complete autonomy of management
of the region subject only to his own responsibility to the Director Gen-
eral, and all Project staff would be responsible to the Regional Director.
5.02      The Project would require fourteen internationally recruited staff.
The Regional Director, the Chief Accountant, the Regional Accountant, the
Chief Engineer, the maintenance supervisor and three of the extension agro-
nomists would be needed for the whole 4-year project period. It would be
the intention that for the final year of their assignments, and subject to
a mid-term review of the Project, these officers would serve in an advisory
capacity to the Zairian staff to whomf they would hand over their functions
at the end of the Project period. Two other extension agronomists, a training



- 20 -
officer, a research agronomist, a supply and logisties officer and a liaison
officer would be needed for about three years. It will be necessary for these
experts to work as a team and it would be difficult to recruit all of them
individually, so it is proposed that ONAFITEX seek the services of a consulting
firm to supply the staff. The CFDT team that has been in place has only an
advisory role and has not had the authority to implement its recommendations.
ONAFITEX recognizes that this is not a workable arrangement and has specifi-
cally requested that the Project team have executive responsibilities and
should not act only as advisors. Annex 4B shows the terms of reference for
the consultant staff, specifying the executive responsibilities, that vere
agreed on, at negotiations, by ONAFITEX and the Belgian Government that will
be financing this component of the Project. An assurance was obtained during
the negotiations that the appointment to the key posts of Regional Director,
Chief Accountant and Regional Accountant would be made %ith the approval of
the Association.
5.03      Overall responsibility for the management of the Project would rest
with the Regional Director whose role would be that of Project Manager and
who would also be the leader of the team to be recruited. He would report to
the Director General, and would be responsible for the implementation, coordi-
nation and evaluation of Project activities. He would be responsible for es-
tablishing the work program for the extension staff to develop, through agro-
nomic trials, the cultural systems best suited for adoption by all cotton
farmers, and to develop the existing extension services as a firm base for
future expansion. He would also be resnonsible for overall coordination of
cotton buving, transporting and ginning.
5.04      The extension staff would be responsible for continuing the on-going
program of field trials on improved cotton husbandry techniques, setting up
demonstrations on farmers' fields, supervising the collection of data on
production and yields for evaluation of the Project, and training extension
workers. In this they would be assisted by the training officer, whose task
it would be to train a cadre of extension workers to be the nucleus around
whom could be built further expansion of the extension services. The research
specialist would work at the INERA sub-station at Boketa and would be concerned
mainly with varietal trials and seed multiplication, and adaptive research in
support of the needs of the extension staff.
5.05      The chief accountant, who would be stationed at the Kinshasa Head
Office of ONAFITEX, would assist ONAFITEX in setting up improved accounting
procedures, along the lines proposed by the consultant to be engaged by ONA-
FITEX (para 3.10). He would also have overall responsibility for the Project
accounts and for supervision of the regional accounts. The regional account-
ant would manage the Project accounts at the regional level, maintaining day
to-day financial control over the cotton buying and operations in the region.
He would be responsible for introducing the improved accounting procedures and
financial control methods and for training the existing staff to carry them out.
It is intended that, ONAFITEX will adont these improved methods in all its
regions.



- 21 -
5.06      The supply and logistics officer, stationed at the Regional Office,
would organize a proper system of inventory control and coordinate the procure-
ment and supply of goods and spare parts for the various users in the Region.
Because of the great difficulty in obtaining spare parts and other supplies
in Gemena and the necessity to maintain a large transport fleet, road mainte-
nance equipment and eleven ginneries, an efficient and well organized supply
organization is needed. As poor communications between the offices and
lack of follow-up has been a major handicap to ONAFITEX operations in the
past, a liaison officer, stationed at Kinshasa would also be responsible
for making the necessary administrative arrangements with Government for the
Project, particularly those concerning the supply, import and transport of
equipment.
5.07      The maintenance supervisor would be responsible for the renovation
of the workshops and for the supervision of ONAFITEX's existing team of 19
mechanics in Gemena who would maintain the transport fleet and road mainte-
nance equipment. He would also supervise maintenance of the ginnerles after
the departure of the ginneries engineer, and would train local staff. The
ginneries engineer would be responsible for carrying out the rehabilitation
of the ginneries and for the training of local staff.
5.08      Each member of the consultant team would be supported by a Zairian
deputy who would be trained to assume the functions of the consultant at the
end of his term of service. This would require the creation of new posts of
Deputy Training Officer and Deputy Supply and Logistics Officer; an assurance
was obtained at negotiations that these posts would be established and that
any vacancies occuring in their posts would be promptly filled by suitably
qualified and experienced staff.
VI. YIELDS, PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, FARMERS' BENEFITS
AND GOVERNMENT BUDGET
A. Yields and Production (Annex 5)
6.01      The Project would make cotton production more attractive to farmers
through timely purchase of cotton by (a) assisting ONAFITEX to improve its
organization and operation, (b) improved transport and roads, and (c) rehabil-
itation of ginneries. Training and demonstrations vould improve farming
techniques in the preliminary stages of the Project and would permit a pro-
gressive increase in the present average yield of 200 kg of seed cotton per
hectare to 350 kg/ha in year 4 (yearly incremental yield 50 kg/ha). Details
of cotton development in the Project are presented in Annex 1, Table 1.
Although the area devoted to cotton is officially 39,000 ha, it is more likely
that currently only 22,500 ha are under cotton. As more farmers are attracted
to cotton production, the area is expected to increase to 36,000 ha by year 4.
The total production is expected to increase to 12,600 tons seed cotton by
year 4 as against the present production of 4,500 tons (Annex 1, Table 2).



- 22 -
B. Marketing (Annex 5)
6.02      The entire cotton crop is purchased by ONAFITEX.  Coffee and cotton
are the only two crops which are commercially marketed in substantial quanti-
ties and on a regular basis in the Project zone. The recent creation of the
Gemena industrial complex (COMINGEM) will generate a market for groundnuts
and soya which could bring them into competition wlth cotton (para 6.04).
6.03      In Equateur Region cotton is purchased by 27 buyers each respon-
sible for a geographical area. Organizational deficiencies, especially
regarding the transfer of funds for payment and transportation for buyers,
result in a year-long b.uying season. Buying should start in December and
be completed in April or May, to correspond with the harvest. This delay
in buying cotton discourages plantera and is one of the main reasons why
cotton production has been declining. Poorly organized purchasing, shortage
of trucks (both of ONAFITEX and private transport contractors), and the poor
state of the roads, do not allow regular and timely supply of seed cotton
to the ginneries. They are thus forced to operate throughout the year with-
out having time for overhaul; a shorter ginning season would be well vithin
their production capacity if they were properly maintained and spare parts
were readily available. Strengthening the administrative and financial
structures of ONAFITEX, making sufficient transport available, improving
the roads and rehabilitating the ginneries, would allow ONAFITEX to buy the
cotton promptly and to transport it to the ginneries during the dry season.
C. Prices (Annex 5)
6.04      The prices paid to growers for the main agrieultural produce of
the Project zone are fixed by the Department of National Economy. For many
years producer prices for crops grown in the area - maize, cotton and ground-
nuts - remained constant in real terms. The minimum price of seed cotton was
raised in 1976 to K 20/kg for first quality and K 15/kg for second quality,
while the price of maize was raised to K 12/kg. Although maize remains an
attractive alternative crop, there are three factors that suggest that its
production at the expense of cotton is unlikely to be significant in Equateur.
The first is that the groving seasons for the two crops are different, so
that they compete neither for land nor labor; second, the Equateur region
has never been an important producer of maize and, finally, there are few
market outlets in the Project area for farmers to sell maize. It is, there-
fore, not expected that the Project's efforts to stimulate farmer interest
in augmenting cotton production would be hampered in any way, and the estab-
lishment of improved marketing under the Project should in fact outweigh the
unfavorable price ratio. The ratio between cotton and groundnut and soya



- 23 -
prices could be further upset by COMINGEM if it should offer higher prices to
incite the farmers to produce more oil seed at the expense of cotton. An
assurance vas obtained that the Government would review prices annually to
keep them in tune with inflation trends and world market prices and after
consultation with the Association, would implement the recommendation of the
review.
6.05      Until 1975, the ceiling sale price of cotton lint to the Zairian
textile mills had been fixed for many years at between K 34 and K 42 per
kilo ex-ginnery according to quality. The price for 1975/76 was raised
to an average price ex-ginnery of K 58/kg, approximately equivalent to the
1975 import parity price (cif Matadi). The devaluation of the Zaire currency
in March 1976 reduced the price in relation to the import parity price in
dollar terms, and Zaire is purchasing cotton from the USA at a price reported
to be at least 50% above the average import parity price. For 1976/77, the
price of cotton lint has been raised to Z 1.38/kg. The price level vould
be reviewed annually in the light of inflation, market prices and cost
changes by a Committee of the Ministry of National Economy and representa-
tives of ONAFITEX, the textile mills and other interested parties and the
recommendations of this review would be implemented after consultation vith
the Association; an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
D. Farmers' Benefits (Annex 1)
6.06      The improved marketing of cotton is expected to induce farmers to
take greater care of their cotton crop, by making modest changes in their
husbandry practices such as earlier land clearing, better land preparation,
better weeding, observing recommended planting dates and densities. These
improvements would increase annual cash incomes per f arm (0.5 ha) by the
following amounts:
Without Pro]ect   With Pro]ect             Incremental
Z               Z               Z     US$        X
Forested Area
(39,000 farmers)           12                22            10       9       83
Savannah Areas
(45,000 farmers)           19                33            14      12       74
Although in absolute terms the increase is modest, the relative increase is
substantial, and since cotton is the only cash crop for farmers in the
savannah areas where no coffee is grown and provides one-third of the cash
income of those farmers who grov coffee in the forest areas, the overall
increase in cash income is considerable and should provide adequate incentive.



- 24 -
E. Government Budget (Annex 9)
6.07      Government's income from cotton exports is derived from an export
tax of 2% on the fob price. In addition, ONAFITEX is obliged by its statutes
to transfer its net operating surplus to Government, though in practice this
has not been done in the past since ONAFITEX's accounts have not enabled it
to identify its surplus, if any. After ONAFITEX has repaid the Government
loan, Government would have a cumulative cash surplus of Z 7.5 million and
ONAFITEX cash surpluses from the Project would, if transferred to Government,
be sufficient to sustain IDA credit repayments (see Annex 3, Table 3).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The chief benefits of the Project would be the increase in cotton
exports and the increased cash income to farmers, many of whom have no
alternative sources of cash income (para 6.06). Production of seed cotton
would increase from the current annual level of 4,500 tons to 12,600 tons
in year 4. The net incremental value of cotton lint at forecast world market
prices (1976 dollar terms) would be about US$3.1 million. The Project would
also produce an additional 3,400 tons of cotton seed: it is assumed that
3,000 tons would be sold to the COMINGEM factory at an ex-ginnery value of
about US$186,000. The improvements to the road network are expected to have
additional benefits to the region as a whole: these benefits have not been
luantified but the costs have been adjusted to take this into account (para
7.02). About 84,000 farmers are expected to benefit from the Project out
of 105,000 subsistence farmers in the region.  Total net income, including
3ubsistence, for farmers in the region is estimated to be $130 per family
4hich is equal to the national average for rural families; under the Project
Lt would rise to about US$140. The absolute poverty level for the country
Ls about US$210 per family.
'.02     The economic rate of return of the whole Project is estimated at 23%.
Jith foreign exchange costs and benefits shadow priced at 120% to reflect the
*conomic value of foreign exchange, the rate of return would be 25%. The
-ull cost of technical assistance is included, but the cost of the insect
'ontrol program is not as this is viewed as preparation for a second phase,
ind not as contributing to the benefits of the Project. The cotton produced
-,y the Project has, for the economic analysis, been valued at the IBRD fore-
-ast world market price, less costs of transport from the ginneries. Only 70%
if the costs of the road improvements have been included in the economic co0ts
,f the Project; it is not possible to calculate the amount of non-project
raffie that might also benefit from them, but this estimate is considered
onservative. Only family labor will be used for which a shadow price of
0% of the daily vage rate has been assumed.



- 25 -
7.03      One main risk facing the Project would be that farmers do not
respond as expected to the improved marketing conditions and that planters
who have moved out of cotton production would not start to plant it again
while other farmers do not find the incentives attractive enough to raise
yields. The other main risk is that the management of the Project would not
succeed in solving the organizational difficulties of ONAFITEX. A 15% reduc-
tion in benefits corresponding approximately to a yield of 300 kg/ha instead
of 350, would lower the return to 18% and a 15% increase in costs would lower
it to 17%: if both these should occur the rate of return would be further
reduced to 12%.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i) the OR would allocate sufficient funds, not less than the
average annual allocation of the past 3 years, for its
current road maintenance program (para 4.08);
(ii) the OR would carry out grading and rehabilitation on the
basis of annual programs agreed with ONAFITEX, and would
continue these programs after the end of the Project
period (para 4.08);
(iii) the Government would ensure that sufficient funds are advanced
to the Gemena account of the ONAFITEX Equateur Regional Office
by October 31 and December 31 each year for the purchase of
seed cotton.  The Government would also advance funds for
Project costs twice a year to the ONAFITEX Project account
(para 4.21);
(iv) the Regional Directorate of ONAFITEX would be given the
operational and financial autonomy necessary for it to
execute the Project (para 5.01);
(v) Government would undertake an annual review of producer
prices for seed cotton and competing crops and sale
price of cotton fiber and, after consultation with the
Association, would implement the recommendation of the
review (paras 6.04 and 6.05).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be that:
(i)  a financing agreement be concluded between ONAFITEX and the
Government (para 4.21);



- 26 -
(ii)  there would be an exchange of letters between the Belgian
and Zairian governments concerning the financing of the
consultant staff by the Belgian government (para 4.21); and
(iii)  an initial advance of Z 200,000 would be made to the Equateur
region of ONAFITEX as working capital (para 4.21).
8.03      It would be a condition of disbursement for the road and bridges
component of the Project that an agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
should have been concluded between the OR and ONAFITEX defining the admin-
istration arrangements for that part of the Project (para 4.07).
8.04      It would be a condition of disbursement for the insect control
program that a plan, satisfactory to the Association, should be submitted
to the Association showing how insecticide and dusters would be distributed
to the farmers (para 4.11).
8.05      With the indicated assurances the proposed Project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$8.0 million to the Government of
Zaire.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
ZAIRE
COTTO`' RE11AB1LITATTO'7 PROJECT
Cotton Development
Potential for Cotton Production
1.01      Ecological conditions governinrn cotton production are generally
favorable in the region.  The farmer gets free seed every year from the
ginneries through ONAFITEX. Thus it is easv to introduce improved seed.
The National Institute for Agricultural Studies of the Congo (INEAC) did
valuable work of selecting and breeding of cotton prior to independence.
In the northern zone, research on cotton was concentrated at Bambesa as the
principal station for Equateur and Haut Zaire, with Boketa sub-station in
Ubangi. For the northern cotton belt, Reba B50 is found most suitable, since
it is genetically resistant to Bacteriosis (bacterial blight) and tolerates
Fusariosis (a disease typically prevailing in humid areas). The ginning
yield, (about 37%) staple length (1-1/16") and other fiber characteristics
are good. However, the main difficulty has been to keep Reba B50 from
degeneration. Field trials with cotton carried out by CFDT-ONAFITEX in five
different localities of the project area showed that improved cultural Practices
alone (selected seeds, timely planting, optimum plant population and weeding)
could give an average yield of 350-4nn kg/ha. The results of fertilizer trials
indicate that fertilizer application is not economic but use of insecticides
in conjunction with imDroved cultural practices promises a yield of 750-800
kg/ha.
1.02      Until the results of crop rotation experiments conducted by CFDT
are available, ONAFITEX has following tentative recommendations.
FOREST                                    SAVANNAH
Ist year:      March-April - Planting maize          June 1-15 - Cotton
July 1-15 - Planting cotton
2nd vear:      March-April - Planting maize or    March-April - Maize or
groundnut                            groundnut
July 1-15 - Manioc and banana        July 1-15 - Manioc and banana
3rd & 4th year:  Manioc and banana                   Manioc and banana
5th year and followine:  fallow                      Fallow



ANNEX 1
Page 2
The recommended calendar for cotton is as follows:
FOREST               SAVANNAH
Land clearing                   November to March          January-Mav
Land preparation                March 1-15                 Mav 15-31
Planting of maize               March 15-April 15
1larvest of maize               June 15-Julv 15
Planting of cotton              July 1-15                  June 1-15
Thinning                        July 20-August 5           June 20-Julv 5
Ridging                         July 25-August 10          June 25-Julv 10
Weeding                         August 20-October 5        July 25-September 10
Harvesting                      December-Januarv           November-December-
Januarv
O)ptimum snacing is 80 cm between rows and 30 cm within the rows with 6 to 8
seeds Der pocket. About 40 kg of cotton seed is recommended per hectare.
1.03      Return to labor for cotton and other selected commodities in
_Eq_ateur:  Data for labor requirements for cotton production in forest and
savannah areas show that cotton fields in forest areas require more labor
than in the savannah zone. Obviouslv more research is needed on actual labor
allocation under field conditions. The estimate of returns to labor for
cotton and other selected commodities in northern Zaire 1973-74 under forest
ind savannah conditions indicate that the returns to labor on cotton are
*l¾out the same as the return to foodcrops except for maize or paddy. (Table 3)
Project Proposal
i IZ4     The project proposal is to focus on the commercialization of cotton
bv making it more attractive to smallholder farmers through (a) timely
ptirchase of cotton crops (h) improved transport and roads (c) the rehabilita-
tion of ginneries and (d) assistance to ONAFITEX in improving its organiza-
-in nd2 operations. Adequate training and demonstrations would improve
lmffin techniques in the preliminarv stages of the project, based on follow-
-    ?especring oof crop rotation cycles.
-    Trmorovement of land selection and reorganizing of narcels.
Clearing land earlv in the season.
TmDrrvement of land preparation through the use of hoes.
Introduction off selective and treated varieties of seeds.
- olIiow1fng the recommended sowing times and plant densities.
L«grcv'inR, of weeding oDerations.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
These improvements of farmine techniques would permit a progressive increase
in the nresent average yield of 200 kg of cotton seeA/ha to 350 kg/ha, in
accordance with the followino chrono1ogical ordler:
Year
1    2    3      4
Yield cotton seed kg/ha    200  250  300   350
1.05      Once the farming techniques are improved, parasite attacks on
cotton plants are known to reduce the cotton yields considerablv. At the
beginning of the crop vear (from Augutst to October) there are attacks by
Lyvus (frisolee), Sylepta, Jassidae, Acarians and Helopeltis (cankers on the
stalk, curling up of the leaves into claws).  Then in November and December
come onslaughts of the capsule parasites, Dysdercus, Disparopsis, and the
Verruca.  Sometimes the crop has additional attacks by Cosmophylla, Argyroploce,
Earias and Heliothis.  A summarv of results of various treatment techniques
tried by CFDT in the prolect zone are presented below:
Manuallv-operated Motor-driven UILV Batterv-operated
Duster            Duster             Sprayer
-_----------------- K/ha --------------------------
Amortization                      17                 S3                25
Service charge                     2                 42                 5
Lahor                              -                                   38
Fuel or batteries                  -                 80                96
Insecticides                   1,404              1,404             2,400
Total                     1,423             1,677              2,564
or in Z/ha                        14                 17                26
Equivalent in kz of
cotton seed (price 6.80 K)   209                  24r6              377
Civen the present ratio of selling price of cotton to cost of insecticides,
the only feasible Drocedure seens to be the manuallv-operated duster.  During
these four years, it would be preferable to train some farmers and demonstrate
on a large scale the use of the manuallv-onerated duster, based on the follow-
ing sluppositions:
-    One duster for each 20 hectare, costinq Z10 (reDayable in 3 years).
-    60 kg of cotton dust per hectare for four treatments during the
crop season.
It is expected that use of insecticide superimDosed on improved agronomie
Dractices would demonstrate a potential vield of 700-750 kg/ha. Dusting
would be carried out bv extension workers.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
ollowing the successful imDlementation of insecticide treatments
it would be logical to emrl.ov chemical fertilizers in order to obtain suDple-
mentarv increase in vields. PresentIv, fertilizer is not used on cotton in
the Equateur Region because its use is not founA economic for smallholder
farmers. Given present corditions in this reç'ion, noor farming techniques,
deteriorating ratio of selIinq price of cotton to cost of fertilizer, and
insufficient experimentation. it is not proDosed to use anv chemical ferti-
lizer in the proiect zone.
1.07      Table 1 gives the details of cotton development in the project from
vear O to year 4.  The average vield would increase from 200 to 350 kg/ha.
These calculations are based on the assurDtion that number of farmers ($4,100)
would remain the same but the area devoted to cotton would increase from 30
to 31'6,000 ha: and the proJuction wnould increase to 12,600 tons from the
present level of 4,500 tons.
1.03       .ar:aers nenefits and Farm ;udget - (Table 2) - Two main t'tpes of
agro--climatic conditions exist in the project area, namely forest zone and
savannah zone. The net incremental income to individual farmers, due to
adoption o.f imnroved agronomic practices alone woul?. be Z10 and 14 in forest
and savannah zone respectively.



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cotton Development
COTTON                       Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4
Area with Project (ha)           22,500         25,000         30,000         36,000
Area without Project (ha)        22,500         22,000         21,500         21,000
Cumulative incremental
area under cotton (ha)             -             3,000          8,500         15,000
Yearly incremental area
under cotton (ha)                  -             3,000          5,500          6,500
Yields with Project (kg/ha)         200            25n             300            350
Yields without Project (kg/ha)    200              200            200             200
Incremental yield with
Project (kg/ha)                                     50            100             150
Production with Project (MT)    4,500            6,250          9,000         12.600
Production without Project
(MT)                             4,500           4,400          4,300          4,200
Cumulative incremental             -                                                                               F §
Production (MT)                    -             1,850          4,700          8,400                                  ,
Yearly incremental
Production (MT)                                  1,850          2,850          5,5n5
eD>



ANNFX/ANNEXF 1
Table/Tableau 2
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cotton: Farm Budgets
Before Project          After Project
Forest   Savannah    Forest        Savannah
Area (h) Cotton               0.40       0.60        0.40         0.60
Yield kg (h)                   '0°       200         350          350
lotal Production kg             80       120         140          210
Value cf Production k.L    1,246       1,896       2,212        3,318
Net   Rece'?ts k            1,246      1,896       2,212        3,318
Incremental Net               -          -           966        1,422
P.eceipts k
1/ .t 17K/kg for first quality (85%) and 9K./kg second quality (15%).



ANNEX/ANNEXE 1
Table/Tableau 3
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Estimate of Return to Labor for Cotton and other
Selected crops in Equateur Region; 1975-76
Estimation de la Rentabilité de la Main d'Oeuvre
pour le Coton et Autres Cultures dans l'Equateur 1975-76
Cotton     froundnuts      Maize     Manioc
Man-day per ha                18(           175           156        82
Yield kg/ha                   350           400(shelled) 600        400(dry)
Price K/kg                     1 91           8            12         4
Gross revenue K              6650          3200         7200       16nO
Cross revenue K/man-day        37            13            46        19
1/ average price assuming 85% first quality at 20 K/kg and 15% second
quality at 15 K/kg.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural Services
Ministry of Agriculture
1.        The Department of Agriculture under this Ministry is responsible
for formulating agricultural policy, implementing price and marketing policies,
assisting its supporting agencies and providing an adequate extension service.
The Department is headed by the Director General of Agriculture who is respon-
sible for five Divisions, one administrative and four technical (Studies and
Agricultural Policy, Agricultural Production, Watershed and Forests and Live-
stock). At present the Ministry staff consists of 24 agronomists, 20 veterin-
arians, 1,000 technical agents and about 4,700 field agents distributed in
the nine administrative regions.
Agricultural Extension Services
2.        Presently agricultural extension is provided by three organizational
structures which operate independently of each other: The Ministry of Agri-
culture, The Communes, and ONAFITEX. Cooperation and coordination between
these services is almost non-existent.
(a) Ministry of Agriculture:
-    one sub-regional agricultural officer (A2) (Agronome de
Sous-Region) at Gemena and Lisala.
-    one district agricultural officer (A2) in the chief town
of each administrative district (Zone Administrative).
-    one resident agricultural officer (A3) for each Commune
(Collectivite Locale) who on an average has between 5
and 10 moniteurs (A3) (instructors trained at an Ecole
Professionelle Agricole) working under him; and
-    240 moniteurs (A3) are at work in the two sub-regions.
(b) Communes: The communes employ, out of their own funds,
instructors called moniteurs adjoints (A3) to distinguish
them from the moniteurs belonging to the civil service.
(c) ONAFITEX: Participates in extension activities at various
levels, having:



AN4EX 2
Page 2
A departmental head of the Agricultural Extension Service
at Gemena.
Four district heads at Bubanda, Gemena, Businga, and
Abumombasy, who are responsible for supervising the
mllis, purchase of cotton and the cotton growing
extension service.
-    25 promotion agents/buyers who purchase the cotton
and check that the moniteurs and moniteurs adjoints
are doing their cotton growing extension work properly.
In spite of the existence of three organizational structures for extension
services and the presence of numerous agricultural instructors, it is clear
that the farmers are left to their own devices and that they receive advice
only very occasionally. The reasons for this ineffectiveness are:
-    The officials responsible (district agricultural officers,
agricultural officers, promotion agents/buyers) have, more
often than not, no means of transport beyond an ordinary
bicycle and so an unable to supervise the work of the
instructors in this field.
-    Between February and June, which is the crucial period for
land clearance, marking out plots and preparation of land
for sowing, the promotion agents/buyers are busy purchasing
cotton.
-    The training of the extension field staff is not relevant
to the conditions in whch they serve.
-    The moniteurs confine themselves to acting as gatherers
of statistics which do not even remotely approach reality
and are most often entirely meaningless.
Project Proposal
3.        The Project area would be divided into seven zones (each zone being
attached to one ginnery). Each zone would be headed by an agronomist and
would be staffed with a number of technical agents (A2) and field agents
(Moniteurs) (A3) so that eventually the density of extension staff would be
one field agent per 200 farmers and one technical agent per 10 field agents.
The technical agents would be stationed within the development areas and the
field agent as close as possible to the farming communities they serve. Field
agents would each be responsible for supplying advice on improved agricultural
practices, and demonstrating the use of insecticides by conducting large
number of trials under farmers field conditions. It is suggested that in
order to attain better coordination and technical guidance, all the extension
staff should be under the direct responsibility of ONAFITEX. The local



ANNEX 2
Page 3
extension staff would be assisted by five expatriate agronomists, who in
addition to advice in all extension work, would be responsible together with
the zone chiefs and in coordination with the research unit for carrying out
trials and seed multiplication at village level.
Demonstration Trials
4.        Although the main thrust of the Project would be on commercializa-
tion, during the stage one, the continuity of the existing French CFDT research
and demonstration program would be maintained. The activities of the team
would include the development of extension and training programs, conducting
field trials of improved cotton husbandry and the use of insecticides,
demonstrating the yield potential of cotton seed under the farmers field
conditions. Funds have been included for making a modest start in extension
and training and for intensifying this effort in the 3rd and 4th project
years, to provide a technical and organizational base for the extension of
agricultural services to more farmers in stage II. The CFDT technical assist-
ance team (5 agronomists, 1 research officer and 1 training officer) should
prepare a coordinated program of extension, training and research involving
existing 80 technical assistants (A2) and 192 moniteurs (A3), a sua of Z310,000
(US$620,000) is provided for demonstration materials, tools, insecticides, etc.
Research
5.        As early as 1933, the National Institute for Agricultural Studies
of the Congo (INEAC) was created as a quasi-government independent organiza-
tion. In 1959, INEAC operated seventeen research stations, fourteen experi-
mental centers and five experimental plantations and a veterinary laboratory.
After independence INERA was created to continue agricultural research in
Zaire and is now under the Ministry of Agriculture. Its activities are mainly
concentrated on oil palm, cocoa, coffee, cotton and livestock. The Director
General, stationed in Yangambi, is responsible for 22 research stations spread
over the seven ecological zones. The annual INERA budget is about Z1.7 mil-
lion (of which ZO.5 million derives from sales of production from its own
plantation) for recurrent expenditures and about ZO.3 million for capital
expenditure. Total INERA staff is about 60 of whom 10 are Zairian and 50
are expatriate technical assistants. The INERA sub-station at Boketa is 12 km
from Gemena on the Akula road, and is well equipped with buildings. Administ-
ratively, it comes under the INERA station at Bongabo and is exclusively
concerned with coffee, cocoa, and rubber. The area of the station is 545 ha,
it has 7 permanent staff and 62 full-time workers. The station is mainly
concerned with cotton growing, following preliminary crops of maize and
groundnuts. Seed multiplication with the Reba B50 variety is carried out
on 5-7 ha, (the stock has not been renewed since 1967). Its work is hampered
by lack of funds little or no technical guidance from elsewhere.
Project Proposal
6.        It is proposed that a backstopping research program should be estab-
lished in close coordination with INERA. The adaptive trials would be carried



ANNEX 2
Page 4
out at the Boketa research sub-station with the assistance and under the super-
vision of one expatriate research officer. This specialist would also be
responsible for the first seed multiplication, the second one being carried
out by the advanced farmer groups selected by the agronomists in their respec-
tive zone.
Training
7.        There are eight Rural Development Centers (Centres du development
rural) in Ubangi and Mongala sub-region, five of which are within the project
area at Bokuda (Gemena Zone), Bulinga (Budjala), Bozene (Kungu), Libenge and
Bili (Bosobolo). These training centers are run by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, and offer 3 years training for students with a 6 year primary school
education to qualify for employment as moniteurs. Students pay a small fee
of K40 per month and must find their own board and lodging in the area.
Half of the course is devoted to theory and half to practice in the Center's
own farm. The annual output of each center is 15-30 students a year who
receive a Certificate d'Aptitude Professionelle. The Centers are self-
financing and the funds they can generate do not allow for amenities such as
furniture or even teaching material. The Bokuda center is staffed by a
principal and 4 teachers. In addition there are two main schools for agri-
cultural training (i) The "Centre d'enseignment Secondaire de blondongo," in
Lisala with an annual output of 25-30 A1-A2 level. This center is operated
under the auspices of INAZA; (ii) The "Centre agricole official des jeunes,"
in Gemena, Lisala and Bumba, with an output of about 30 students of A3 level.
These centers used to be under the Ministry of Youth and Sports but now are
under the Party youth wing.
8.        The Project proposal is to recruit internationally one training
agronomist who, with his Zairian deputy would develop a training programme
for the existing extension staff, to be carried out under his guidance and
supervision by the five field agronomists provided under the Project.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
L'Office National des Fibres Textiles (ONAFITEX)
1.   Background
Before 1971, the entire cotton economy in Zaire was the responsi-
bility of the Comite de Gerance de la Caisse de Reserve Cotonniere (COGERCO)
which was an autonomous Government Agency representing the planters, the state
and private cotton firms. The main work consisted of:
(a) financing, through the private cotton companies, the
purchase of seed cotton from farmers at a fixed price;
(b) financing ginning and transport costs by refunding
all expenses incurred in these activities by the cotton
companies;
(c) supervising sales of cotton fibre and cotton seed made
through the Comptoir de Vente des Cotons (COVENCO - a sales
organization jointly owned by COGERCO and the private cotton
companies);
(d) developing cotton production through distribution of insecti-
cides, improved seed and farming equipment.
The system of reimbursing cotton companies on a cost-plus basis
did not lead to economic efficiency and COGERCO was not able to audit properly
the accounts of the ginning companies: it made heavy losses on cotton exports
and found itself in severe financial difficulties. In 1971 ONAFITEX was estab-
lished and took over the assets of COGERCO and COVENCO, and in 1974 the assets
of the private companies which had been Zairianized were also allocated to
ONAFITEX.
2.   Powers and Objectives
ONAFITEX was established by Ordinance Law 71/077 of 12 August 1971,
and its statutes fixed by Ordinance Law 74/015 of 10 January 1974. It is a
state-owned industrial and commercial body, with its own legal statue and
financial autonomy, responsible to the State Commissioner for Agriculture.
It is managed by a Director General assisted by a Deputy Director General,
both appointed by the President of the Republic, administering five Regional
offices (Equateur, Haut-Zaire, Shaba, Kasai and Kivu) and two zones (Uvira
and Sankuru) with a total staff of about 3,100 persons. ONAFITEX is charged
in general with the promotion of the economic and social development of all
regions suitable for the production of the textile fibres. In particular,
its functions are to:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(a)  provide technical assistance to farmers growing fibre crops;
(b) organize the marketing of the produce, by purchasing the
production from the farmers, transporting it to the processing
mills and selling the processed material to the local textile
mills or for export;
(c) control fibre quality and issue certificates of origin for
export;
(d)  promote and facilitate the establishment of farmers' organi-
zations that would in the long run by capable of managing
collective production and marketing facilities;
(e) assure the financing of fibre campaigns;
(f) set up a price stabilization fund.
3.   Organization
The departmental organization of ONAFITEX is shown in the chart.
The Head Office in Kinshasa is divided into six departments; administrative,
handling administration and personnel matters; financial; commercial, dealing
with fibre grading, sales, and exports; technical, charged with buying and
stores and responsibility for the ginneries; a small agronomy department has
recently been set up to handle extension services, and a small medical depart-
ment is in charge of the dispensaries that treat ONAFITEX personnel. Each of
the five regions is organized on similar lines under a Regional Director
responsible directly to the Director General and his Deputy. Control over
regional operations is centralized, so that regions are not allowed a very
wide measure of autonomy. This is probably a reasonable policy in view of
the scarcity of trained or experienced managerial staff in Zaire; it is
difficult to find enough experienced people to spread, even thinly, through
all the regions. However, because of the extremely poor communications
between the regions and Kinshasa, considerable delays are frequently caused
by the necessity to await authorization from Kinshasa. In general, the
management of ONAFITEX is inexperienced and inefficient. Decisions that should
be taken are not taken, or if taken, not implemented. Morale is low, and
initiative, among those capable of showing it, tends to be stifled by the
inaction of others higher in the heirachy: few people in the organization
some to have retained sight of the objectives of ONAFITEX, and no one appears
able to make the necessary efforts to overcome the considerable difficulties
ONAFITEX is about to face to re-establish the cotton industry. The situation
regarding the radio communications network (described in the text (para. 3.06),
is typical of ONAFITEX management inertia: what is essentially a simple
matter of obtaining an authorization already approved in principle has now
become a major handicap to more efficient operation. Frequent staff trans-
fers ensure that when members of the staff do become competent in their tasks
they are transferred to another job to begin from scratch; thus most of the
staff is kept in constant bewilderment.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
4.   Finance
Budgetary approval for ONAFITEX is the responsibility of the State
Commissioner for Agriculture. For each fiscal year (1 January to 31 December)
ONAFITEX has to produce a balance sheet, an income and expenditure statement
and a profit and loss statement. However, despite its statutory obligation
to do so, ONAFITEX has not produced any such statements since those of 1972
which were only prepared in 1974. When it was created, ONAFITEX took over
the assets and liabilities of COGERCO and COVENCO, to which were added the
assets of the cotton companies Zairianized in 1974, which have not yet been
given any values: the confusion of the accounts of all these organizations
has added to difficulty for ONAFITEX to compile a balance sheet. As a result
of the lack of current information, the mission was not able to form an
accurate picture of ONAFITEX's financial situation. More serious, however,
is that ONAFITEX has little idea of what its financial situation is; without
being able to identify its cost components it is difficult to see how it
can be managed on commercially sound lines. In the Equateur region, the
accounts consist mainly of cash expenditure but the basically simple nature
of these accounts has been complicated by the large number of item codes, and
the failure to keep frequent running totals, so that even these accounts are
many months in arrears despite a fairly large but inexperienced accounts
division with very little coordination and a total lack of sense of priorities.
The mission did not visit other regions, but it is more than likely that the
situation is no better elsewhere.
5.   Organization Aspects of the Project
(a) Head Office
The Project would provide ONAFITEX with technical assistance in
reforming its accounting systems, so that top management can have access to
the information and controls necessary for efficient management of the organi-
zation. The initial step would be the engagement of a management consultant
for about three months to advise on the setting up of new procedures, following
the guidelines set out in Annex 4. After allowing ONAFITEX a few weeks to
take whatever preliminary steps that may be necessary, the consultant would
return for a second visit of about two to three months to assist ONAFITEX in
implementing his recommendations. The Project would also provide an account-
ant at the Kinshasa head office for a period of three years, who would handle
the Project accounts and also help operate the improved accounting system.
(b) Regional Office
Apart from the Regional Director, the agronomist and the training
officers (see text paras. 5.03 and 5.04), the Project would provide an
accountant for the regional office at Gemena to handle project accounts in
the region and to install and operate the improved regional accounting system



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(see 5(a) above), as well as to supervise and control the seed cotton buying
system. It is envisaged that under the Project the cotton buying would be
centralized and carried out by four mobile buying teams; cotton buying would
be done zone by zone instead of being done throughout the whole region at
once, as at present. Each 7-10 days the buying teams would return to Gemena
to bring in their returns and to replenish their cash supplies: this would
ensure that running totals of cotton purchases are kept instead of being
calculated long after the event as at present. The Project would also provide
an internationally recruited logisties and supply officer for two years. He
would be based in Gemena and his function would be to coordinate all the
orders for spare parts supplies and to train Zairian staff in inventory
control and ordering of supplies: with the larger number of vehicles and
the requirements of the ginneries and given the long delays (normal in Zaire)
in filling orders, there is an urgent need for rational and careful planning
to ensure timely provision of spares and supplies without having inordinately
large inventories. He would also be responsible for making the administrative
arrangéments with Government to ensure, inter alia, that Project equipment
reaches the Equateur region promptly; to do this he will have to set up and
operate efficient channels of supply and communication. As it is expected
that he will need to visit Kinshasa frequently, a travel budget of Z 2,000 p.a.
-s provided for. A maintenance supervisor and a ginneries expert would
also be recruited internationally to ensure efficient operation and mainte-
nance of trucks and gins and to train Zairian staff in those functions.



ANNEx/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 1
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
0O FITEX
Balance Sheet
Equateur Region
Actual            Estimateéd
12111/197           6/30/1974
1.   Fixed Assets                  125.9               179.8
less depreciation              26.1                50.7
_ _        Z  000 ----
99.8              129.1
Current Assets
Cash                         295.6               447.7
Stocks                       561.9            1,143.5 (doubtful)
,Debtors                       41.0               31.6
Prepaymxents                 247.0                20.9
1,145.5            1,643.7
Total Assets                1,245.5             1,772.8
Represented by:
Creditors                     65.1               421.9
Supplies & Advances(HO)  1,038.1              1,434.8
Undistributed Income(loss) 142.1                (213.0)
1,245.3            1,643.7
Fixed Assets  Accumulated Deprecîation
2.   Vehicles
Vehicles                       42.2             (0.9)
Agro. Equipment                75.2            (24.8)
Office Equipment etc.           8.5             (0.4)
125.9           (26.1)
Actual            Estimated 18 months
1972               1973 - 112 1974
Sales - local                 234.3               302.3
- export                 80.0
314.3              302.3
Cost of mles                 163.5               657.4
Operating Margin Z Losa)      150.8              (355.1)
General expenses        6.5
Incineration of seeds 2.2
8.7               15.3
Operating Income (loss)       142.1              (370.4)
Cost of Sales
Cotton                                          181.1
Operating Costs                                378.0
Hire of Transport                                49.8
Milling Costs                                    26.2
Operating Costs (Agro)                           22.3
657.4
l/  From Gemena and HO documents which are not up-to-date or reliable.



ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 2
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
Existing Equateur Regional Expenses
A. Fixed Costs
1. Salaries and Wages               No.    Z/ per month
Regional Executives            (7)         1,495
Office and Accounts           (23)           761
* Chefs de Centre               (12)           490
« Chefs de Zone                   (4)          353
* Recept. and Manager           (36)         1,130
* Mechanics                     (19)           985
(101)        5,214
Gins                         (583)         6,203
(684)       11,417
can be considered direct expenses
2. Electricity, Sundry Expenses (est'd)
B.  Variable eosts per Ton of Cotton Lint
1.  Gins                                             Z/ton
Gasoil (60 1/ton seed cotton at 13 k/l          23.40
Lubeoil                                          5.00
Quick Links  (exact cost 1975)                  15.90
Jute  (Onafitex estimate)                        4.20
48.50
2.  Cotton   3 tons at 7.70/kg                       231.00
Financial costs at 6%                   13.90
293.40
Less Sgle of 1 1/2 tons seeds.at.30               45
248.40



ZAIRE
COTTON RENABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
ONAFITEX - Cash Flow
(Z'OOO)
Year     Year    Year        Year      Year                     Year 16 Onwards
Année    Année    Année    Année    Année    Years 5-15            A Partir
0 1/     1         2         3         4      Années 5-15       l'année 16
CASH INFIOW                                                                                                             REVENUE MONETAIRE
Sale of Cotton Lint 2/        1,575    1,575    2,187    3,150    4,410           4,410            4,410             Vente du Coton Fibre 2/
Sale of Cotton Seed 3/           67        67        96       127      162           162             162            Vente des Graines de Coton 3/
Government Loan 4/               -      1.257       563       743      836            -               -              Pr8t du Gouvernement 4/
Total Cash Inflow        1,642    2,899    2,846    4,020    5,408           4,572           4,572             Revenu Total
CASH OUTFLOW                                                                                                            DEPENSES MONETAIRE
Purchase of Seed Cotton 5/    866         866    1,203    1,732    2,425          2,425            2,425             Achat de Coton Graine
Ginning and Baling Costs 6/   114         114       158       227      318           318             318             Frais d'Egrenage- et Emballage 6/
Administrative Overheads 7/   315         315       315       315      315           315             315             Frais Généreaux Administatifs 7/
Extension Staff 8/               15        15        15        15       15            15              15             Salaires des Moniteurs Agricoles 8/
Financial Charges 9/            124       124       162       203      250           250             250             Frais Bancaires 9/
Recurrent Costa 10/              -         78       143       219      '305           -               -              Frais Courants 10/
Project Costa 11/                -      1,676       751       990    1,115           460             460             Coûts de Projet 11/
Service of Government                                                                                                Amortissment du Prgt Gouvernemental 12/
Loans  2/                       -        _          75       109      154           431              -
Total Cash Outflow       1,434    3,188    2,822    3,810    4,897           4,214           3,783             Dépenses totales
Cash Inflow (Outflow)    208        (289)      24       210       511          358             789             Revenu (Dépensee)
Cumulative Net Inflow
(Outflow)                208       (81)      (57)      153       664        4,602 (Yr.15)  5,391              Revenu (Dépensea) net (tes) cumul8(es)
1/  Chiffres estimés pour 1976.
j,!  Estimated figures for 1976.                                                                                      2/  Prix de coton fibre supposé comme Z 1,050 tonne.
2/ Assumed prices per ton cotton lint: Z 1,050                                                                       3/  1.5 tonnes de graines de coton par tonne de coton fibre,
__ vendu pa        0la tonne, jusqu 'au maximum de 6,000 tne.                I
3/  1.5 tons of cotton seed per ton of lint sold at Z 30/ton                                                             v      par   Z 30 la ten tes   'au  maxim            60   tonnes.
up to a maximum of 6,000 tons.                                                                                   4/  Contributions de 'AID repr1tées au l'ONAFITEX.
4/  IDA contributions on-lent to ONAFITEX.                                                                           5/  Prix moyen de 19.25 k/kg.
5/ Average price 19.25 k/kg.                                                                                         6/  A Z 75.70 t/fibres.
6/  At Z 75.70/ton lint.                                                                                             7/  Estimation de la mission, y inclus frais ad,ministatifs de la
7/ Mission estimate includes share of Head Office overheads                                                              Direction Gonérale.
8/  27 moniteurs                                                                                                     8/  27 moniteurs
9/  6% on loans from commercial banks                                                                                9/  6S sur les prêts des banques commerciales
lO/ Operative costs and ONAFITEX vehicle costs, not                                                                  10/  Dépenses de functionnement et renouvellement véhicules ONAFITYX,
included in Project costs.                                                                                           exclus des coÛts du Projet.
11/  See Annex 6, table 1.  Includes project coste pafd by                                                           11/  Voir 'Annexe 6, tableaus 1.  Y inclus tous les coûts du projet
ONAFITEX (grants excluded).                                                                                          a charge de l'ONAFITEX (sauf dotation).
12/  See note 4, on-lent to ONAFITEX by Covernment at 6%                                                             12/  Voir note 4, emprunt& par l'ONAFITEX du Gouvernement a 6% pour
15 years, 4 year grace. Excludes cost of road program.                                                               15 ans, amortissement différé pendant 4 ans.  Les coOts de la
remise en état des routes sont exclus.



ANNEX 4A
Page l
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
Guidelines for Management Consultant
1.   Status and Relationships
The consultant will be employed by ONAFITEX, but will report to a
panel consisting of (say) the Director General of ONAFITEX and the Directors
General of the Departments of Agriculture and Finance. ONAFITEX will provide
the consultant with office accommodation and clerical and typing facilities.
The Gemena Regional Director and the Director of Finance vill work closely
with the consultant; the Kinshasa and Gemena chief accountants and their
staffs will be accessible to him and assist him at all times. The precise
timetable of the assignment and the periods spent in Gemena will be agreed
with the Directors General and ONAFITEX will arrange for airplane tickets
and accommodation in Gemena.
2.   Objectives
The consultant's objectives are to set up simplified but adequate
financial control procedures at ONAFITEX Head Office in Kinshasa and the
Regional Office in Gemena in order that:
(a) Ubangi cotton project expenditure and regional operations
can be properly recorded, separately from other transactions
(which should also be controlled, but not necessary in much
detail at this stage).
(b)  All transaction and operations in the region can be recorded
promptly and assessed monthly;
(c) Cash transfers and the purchasing of cotton can be properly
organized and controlled; and
(d) The financial transactions and operations of head office and
the six other regions can be properly organized and accounted
for, preferably on a monthly basis.
3.   Suggested Approach
(a) Concentrate on Head Office and Gemena procedures. Design
simple procedures for cash control and reduce accounting and
cost accounting headings to bare essentials (instead of
more than 600 headings, about 10-20 should suffice).



ANNEX 4A
Page 2
(b) In view of the likelihood that ONAFITEX books and records,
some of which have been impounded by the authorities, will
not be being brought up to date within a reasonable time,
discuss the possibility of drawing up a starting balance
sheet from physical inventories at the earliest practicable
date and assist ONAFITEX in the planning and execution of
this.
(c) Instead of 27 widely disseminated "propagandistes -
receptionnaires" in Ubangi (they get - or do not get -
the money through zone and sector chiefs) consider
reducing the buyers to (say) 9, in teams of three, all
based in Gemena. Nine buyers provided with adequate
transport and weekly money replenishments could visit each
"Centre de rassemblement" twice during the five months'
buying season (there is a six weeks' seasonal difference
between the North and South of Ubangi). The chief buyer
would consolidate the weekly transaction records at Regional
Office for statistical and accounting purposes, week by week.
(d) Arrange for the consolidation of the Kinshasa and regional
portions of the accounting records within few days of the
end of each month, and for monthly regional operating
summaries and quarterly operating statements to be drawn up.
For the six other regions, control accounts in respect of
regional transactions would be maintained, initially at
Head Office (The improved procedures, when proven, would be
introduced in the six other regions. The present assignment,
however, concerns only the region of the Project).
(e) Set up budgets and targets against which monthly, quarterly
and annual results can be measured.
(f) After discussions and agreement, implement the new procedures
at HQ and Gemena.



ANNEX 4B
Page 1
ZAIRE
COTTON RERABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant Staff
A. General Responsibilities
1.        Regional Director (qualified manager of agricultural projects
with at least 10 years' experience, at least three of them in Africa, and
a thorough knowledge of rain-fed cotton groving).
The Regional Director shall be responsible to the Delegate General
of ONAFITEX for the management and general administration of the project.
All the staff of ONAFITEX and the regional agricultural services in the
project area shall be subordinate to him.
Re shall plan the crop year after consulting the field agronomists
and shall organize the purchase, transportation and processing of the cotton.
He shall head the team placed at the disposal of the project, direct
and coordinate its activities and delegate specific tasks to it.
He shall be responsible for liaison vith the local governeent
authorities, with whom he shall cooperate closely.
He shall be directly responsible for the training of the Deputy
Regional Director, to whom he shall hand over his duties at the conclusion
of the project; he shall have ultimate responsibility for ensuring that all
of the staff made available to the project carry out their training functions.
He shall continuously evaluate the impact of the project on the
cotton planters; in this task he shall be assisted by the reports of the
field agronomists and by the evaluation reports of the independent agency
engaged for the purpose.
The Regional Director shall be stationed at Gemena.
2.        5 field agronomists (qualified agronomists familiar vith African
conditions, vith at least five years' experience in tropical agriculture,
at least three years' experience in rain-fed cotton growing and working
experience in agricultural extension).
The field agronomists shall be responsible to the Regional Drector.
They shall plan and carry out the cotton groving and buying compaigns, con-
duct agricultural trials (in consultation with the research agronomist)
to improve the techniques of cotton growing, organize and supervise the
demonstration of these techniques in the plantera' fields. They shall
direct and supervise all agricultural extension vork in their area.



ANNEX 4B
Page 2
In liaison with the Training Officer, they shall give particular
attention to training the extension staff. They shall also participate in
training their Zairian counterparts, (chefs de zone).
They shall be responsible for collecting information on cotton
production and yields needed to help the Regional Director in organizing
cotton purchasing campaigne.
They shall supervise the management of the ginneries and ensure
the training of the ginnery managers.
They shall prepare periodic reports and shall be stationed in
the project area.
3.        Research agronomist (at least seven years' experience in cotton
research in equatorial Africa).
The Research Agronomist shall be responsible to the Regional
Director for the needs of the project as regards adaptation, multiplication
and experimentation. He shall work in close collaboration with the field
agronomists, who shall let him know what they need.
He shall also collaborate vith INERA, the national institute for
agronomic study and research, and particularly with the INERA station at
Bambesa, Haut Zaire, which is the main cotton research station and the
source of the varieties that will be tested.
He shall liaise with the research stations of neighboring countries,
particularly the IRCT stations in Chad and the Central African Republic,
which are likely sources of improved varieties.
He shall supervise the multiplication of seed in the project area
and shall be stationed at Boketa.
4.        Training officer (basic training in agronomy including some
familiarity with rain-fed cotton growing, at least five years experience in
training extension workers).
The Training Officer shall be responsible to the Regional Director
for the training of agricultural extension staff. He shall vork in close
collaboration with the field agronomists.
He shall prepare a training program and assist the field agronomists
to train the extension staff on the job. He shall also organize period&courses
of more formal training.
He shall assist the other consultants in preparing practical train-
ing courses for the Zairian staff who vill take over their duties at the end
of the project.
He shall be stationed at Gemena.



ANNEX 4B
Page 3
5.        Maintenance supervisor (at least three years' experience in the
maintenance of large transportation fleets and familiarity with the most
common types of vehicles and agricultural machinery).
The maintenance supervisor shall be responsible to the Regional
Director for the repair and servicing of the transportation fleet and
for maintenance of road equipment.
He shall establish and equip the workshops. He shall ensure
liaison with the Supply and Logistics Officer to establish a stock of spare
parts for the vehicles.
He shall also be responsible for on-the-job training of the mechanics
and the Deputy Maintenance Supervisor who will take over his duties at the
end of the project.
He shall be stationed at Gemena.
6.        Regional accountant (qualified accountant with experience in
management accounting and at least five years' experience in accounting
in a commercial enterprise).
The regional accountant shall be responsible to the Regional
Director for all regional accounting.
He shall be responsible for oetting up improved accounting systeme
in the region, following the consultant's suggestions, in liaison with the
Chief Accountant.
He shall prepare the applications for withdrawal of funds for the
parts of the project for which external financing is provided.
Under the supervision of the Regional Director, he shall make
certain that the cotton buying teams are provided vith the necessary funds
at the right time and place.
He shall be responsible for training the Deputy Regional Accountant
who will take over his duties at the end of the project.
He shall be stationed at Gemena.
7.        Supply and Logistics Officer (at least five years' experience in
stock control in a commercial firm. An energetie and persistent person
familiar with African conditions),
The Supply and Logistics Officer shall be responsible to the
Regional Director for organizing an efficient buying and stores system
for the project. He shall draw up the orders for equipment and supplies
needed for the project and supervise the state of the stocks by an inventory
system he shall perfect to ensure that the stocks are kept at a satisfactory
level.



ANNEX 4B
Page 4
He shall be responsible for training his deputy, who vill take
over his duties vhen he leaves.
He shall be stationed at Gemena.
8.        Chief Engineer (qualified engineer familiar wvth "Continental"
saw gins, wlth at least three years' experience in the maintenance of
cotton ginning plants).
The Chief Engineer shall be responsible to the Regional Director
for the rehabilitation of cotton ginneries in the project area.
He shall supervise the ovethaul of the machinery, the installation
of the new generators and other equipment to be replaced and the repair of
the buildings.
He shall assist the Supply and Logistics Officer in determining
the stocks of spare parts to be built up for the needs of the project.
9.        Chief Accountant (fully qualified accountant vith at least
10 years' commercial experience and experience of African conditions).
The Chief Accountant shall have two main tasks:
(i) Under the authority of the Delegate General, he shall imple-
ment the proposals of the consultants, approved by the
Delegate General, for improvement of ONAFITEX's accounting.
He shall see to it that ONAFITEX recelves the management
information that its accounts do not at present supply.
He shall be responsible for training the local staff at
headquarters and in the regions to enable them to perform
accounting duties.
(ii) Under the authority of the Regional Director, he shall
supervise the project accounts kept under the direct responsi-
bility of the Regional Accountant. He shall ensure that the
project is adequately provided with the necessary vorking
capital. He shall decide vith the Regional Accountant on the
accounting procedures to be adopted in the Equateur region.
He shall approve the withdrawal applications and make certain
that they are forwarded quickly.
He shall be stationed at Kinshasa.
10.       Liaison Officer (administrative officer with at least five years'
experience in a supply department in Africa).
The Liaison Officer shall be responsible to the Regional Director.
He shall be responsible for relations between ONAFITEX and the Ministerial
Departuents for matters arising out of the project.



ANNEX 4B
Page 5
He shall follow up orders from suppliers.
He shall see to it that all the documents and funds needed for
proper execution of the project are drawn up and forvarded without delay.
He shall make certain that the clearance of supplies through
customs, their delivery and transportation are effected promptly.
He shall be stationed at Kinshasa.
B.        Training Responsibilities
In view of the fundamental importance of training Zairian staff,
the project staff shall pay particular attention to this aspect of their
responsibilities. In particular:
(i) the Regional Director shall train his deputy in the following
fields, among others:
1.   agricultural extension in general;
2.   organization of transportation and of the cotton
campaign;
3.   administrative organization of the enterprise;
4.   the day-to-day management of current business of the
enterprise;
5.   financial control of the enterprise;
6.   keeping the confidentiality of the enterprise.
(ii) The field agronomists shall train their deputies in the
folloving fields, particularly:
1.   general agricultural extension;
2.   techniques of adapting cultivation practices;
3.   multiplication of seed;
4.   observance of the cotton planting calendar;
5.   organization of the cotton collection;
6.   remittance of funds to collecting agents;
7.   the cultivation cycle;



ANNEX 4B
Page 6
8.   insect control;
9.   disease control;
10.   contact with the local authorities and the farmers;
11.   dupervision of collection centers;
12.   transport of cotton;
13.   ginning of cotton;
14.   baling of cotton;
15.   classification of cotton;
16.   preparation of papers for daily and monthly reports;
17.   construction of collection centers, etc.
(iii) The field agronomists, the Chief Engineer and the Maintenance
Supervisor shall, each in his own area of concern, train the ginnery managers,
particularly in the folloving fields:
1.   establishment of ginnery center books;
2.   keeping of cash and accounting books;
3.   management of the labor force;
4.   administration of ginnery centers;
5.   reception of seed cotton;
6.   drawing up of documents relative to receipt of cotton;
7.   dispatch and receipt of mail;
8.   filing of documents;
9.   keeping of supply stores;
10.   maintenance and control of ginneries;
I1.   keeping of the RME;
12.   keeping of records on ginnery center inventories;
13.   dispatch and receipt of cotton at the ginnery;



ANNEX 4B
Page 7
14.   relations vith staff and authorities, local or
othervise;
15.   shipment of cotton products;
16.   distribution of cotton seed;
17.   general agricultural extension;
18.   control of the stock of seed cotton in the collecting
centers;
19.   transportation of seed cotton;
20.   control of reception of seed cotton;
21.   preparation of requisition.
(iv) the Chief Engineer and the Maintenance Supervisor shall,
each in his own area of concern, train the mechanics and mechanics' helpers
in one of the folloving fields:
1.   repair, rehabilitation and maintenance of cotton
ginneries - and other machinery;
2.   repair, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
vehicle fleet and other machinery;
3.   training of skilled drivers for the heavy trucks;
4.   training of electricians in all fields.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ZAIRE
COTTON RERhABILITATION PROJECT
Production, Marketing and Pricing of Cotton
A. Production
1.        Cotton, the principal textile fibre cultivated in Zaire, was first
introduced in the country in 1915. In the early years farmers vere compelled
to plant a certain percentage of cotton, and production increased steadily
(Table 1) until 1940, when total output reached 130,000 tons of seed cotton.
Production fell to 95,000 tons in 1944, but continued to increase thereafter.
This progression was, however, interrupted in 1960 by the troubles which
followed independence; production dropped from 180,000 tons in 1959 to only
about 18,800 tons in 1966. Since that time production has once again begun
to increase, as order has been restored and farmers are once again compelled
to plant cotton along with their other crops; by 1973 output of seed cotton
reached 67,000 tons. Unfortunately, however, due both to indifference on the
part of those authorities charged with enforcing production requirements and
to indifference on the part of farmers (who consider cotton a secondary crop
and spend little time and effort on its cultivation), this trend has been
reversed in recent years. In 1974 production fell by almost 30% from the
previous year's level to a total output of 48,000 tons, and forecasts for
1975 project an output of around 38,000 tons.
2.        The proposed Project would be located in Equateur region, which
generally produces a sizeable proportion of the country's total cotton produc-
tion.  As Equateur region has suffered less from the post-independence troubles
than many other regions, its share of national cotton production has increased
from 10-12% before independence to a current level of about 20%. This increase
can be compared to the situation in Haut Zaire, where the region's share of
national production has declined from 39% in 1959 to about 22% (Table 1).
Cotton is traditionally planted in rotation by small farmers who on average
devote about 0.5 ha (out of a total area of 3 ha) to its cultivation. The
other major cash crop in the area is coffee, and near the various towns
(especially around Gemena) there is a limited trade in food crops such as
maize and cassava. Also, an industrial complex (COMINGEM) recently established
in Gemena is expected to purchase substantial amounts of groundnuts (almost
exclusively a subsistance crop until now) and soya if current trials aimed at
introducing these oil seeds in the existing crop rotation are successful.
3.        Zaire's cotton production is primarily used to supply domestic
textile mills, the location and capacity of which are shown below:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Mill                 Location             Capacity
(tons of lint)
UTEXCO               Kinshasa              9,000
SOTEXKI              Kisangani             3,000
SOLBENA              Lubumbashi            2,000
AMATO                Lubumbashi            1,200
FILTISAF             Kalemie               3,000
ZAITEX              )
)Kinshasa
MOBILIA             )                        600
Total     18,800
Any production in excess of the needs of the textile mills is exported (see
Table 2). However, due to wide fluctuations in domestic production, Zaire
had to import cotton from 1965 to 1970 to meet the needs of its mille. Since
then the country has once more become an exporter on the world market. How-
ever, the decline in production, the installation of new machinery in the old
textile mills, and the recent coming into operation of the SOTEXKI mill
(Kisangani) are likely to absorb the cotton that is available for export.
If the trend exhibited over the last three years continues, Zaire will once
again have to import cotton.
4.        Cotton fibre from the Equateur and Haut Zaire regions is usually
sent to the Kinshasa mills, with any excess being exported via Matadi. The
world market situation and Zaire's past standing as a cotton exporter indi-
cate that should be no problem in disposing of any incremental Project output
on the world market if this should be necessary.
B. Price
Seed Cotton
5.        Prices of cotton and other major agricultural products are fixed
by the Department of National Economy based on proposals from the Agricultural
Department and the national offices concerned. The Department establishes:
(a) a minimum purchase price to the farmer; and
(b) prices at various stages of marketing (e.g. the
wholesale price in Kinshasa for palm oil, the retail
price for meat, the price that textile mills pay for
cotton, etc.).



ANNEX 5
Page 3
These price controls were established to ensure that the urban population
would be able to purchase basic agricultural commodities at reasonable
prices; consequently prices to the farmer have been kept at artifically low
levels in past years. The result of the policy has been a stagnation or
decline in the production of commodities such as maize, palm products, and
to some extent cotton. In 1975 prices were raised to more satisfactory levels,
but the devaulation of the Zaire currency in March 1976 has reduced these levels
in real terms and it is desirable that prices should again be raised to restore
the relationship with international prices and to provide increased incentives
for farmers. The prices should not be allowed to stagnate with no regard for
world market trends and domestic inflation, but should be adjusted as seems
required by world market standards.
6.        There is little information currently available as to the comparative
profitability for farmers in Equateur region of cultivating cotton as opposed
to other cash crops. Any data on the number of man-hours necessary to produce
a ton of cotton is tentative at best, and is based on historical information
obtained from research stations and from comparable areas in neighboring
countries. While no accurate estimate of the time actually spent by Equateur
farmers in the cultivation of cotton can be made, it would appear that if
the price of a kg of cotton is maintained at a level two to three times that
of a kg of maize or groundnuts, the benefit to be derived from a day's work in
the field would be roughly comparable. It should be noted, of course, that
factors other than price may play a significant role in the farmer's decision
to cultivate one crop rather than another. These might include: the exist-
ence of a well organized marketing structure, traditional preferences for
certain crops, the desire to maximize annual income rather than income per
diem in instances where available time may not be fully utilized, etc. In
the absence of more precise information it is not possible to fully evaluate
these factors, but it appears that the current relative price levels do not
unduly favor one crop over another, except for maize. However, the absence
of marketing facilities for maize in the Project acts to discourage farmers
from intensive production of maize for sale and it is not expected to replace
cotton as a cash crop in the immediate future.
7.        As noted aboave (para. 2), a new oil seed processing factory,
Combinat Industrial de Gemena (COMINGEM), has recently opened; the extent to
which this facility will open new markets for groundnuts and soya and allow
them to be compete with cotton as a cash crop cannot yet be determined. The
main worry is that this enterprise (which does not appear to have studied
its future sources of raw material in detail), will offer high prices for
groundnuts (7 K/kg, at the farmgate and 10 K/kg at the factory) and soya
(9 K/kg and 12 K/kg respectively) in order to achieve its target production.
These high prices may lead to an increase in the production of groundnuts
and soya to the detriment of cotton, but this situation could be temporary,
since the resultant cost of production of soya and groundnut oil would be
excessive. However, the agricultural market of the region would be dis-
organized for a period of time, to the prejudice of agriculture as a whole.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Cotton Lint
8.        The export price of cotton lint is subject to the fluctuations of
the world market. Until 1975 the price of lint sold to textile mills in
Zaire was fixed between 34 and 43 K/kg ex-ginnery, depending on the quality
of the product, giving an average price of lint of about 40 K/kg. It is
important to note, however, that this price was well below the cost of produc-
tion (over 50 K/kg) estimated by ONAFITEX, and that the mills were therefore
in effect receiving a considerable subsidy. In 1975 the price was fixed be-
tween K 71.40 /kg and K 47.60 /kg according to quality. The average price
received by ONAFITEX would then be about K 60/kg. The devaluation of the
Zaire currency adversely affected the relationship of the sale price
of cotton lint in Zaire and the world market price, and the price in
Zaire has been raised to re-align it with the import parity price (main
text, para 6.05). It is now proposed that each year before the start
of the crop season, an overall review be undertaken to determine the
aDpropriate level of prices for various crops. taking into account in each
case the actual cost of production.
C. Marketing
Organization of Cotton Buying
9.        Cotton is purchased by buying teams at 600 "Centres de Rassemblement"
(C.R.), which have been located so that a farmer should not have to transport
his crop more than 5 km. A buying team consists of:
(a) the ONAFITEX buyer (Agent Receptionnaire) who classifies the
cotton into two qualities and pays cash; he is often assisted
by the planters themselves in weighing the cotton; and
(b) the employee of the Agricultural Department responsible for
the area (whose presence is supposed ta ensure the buying
is carried out honestly).
The buying team is expected to visit each C.R. on two occasions during each
cotton purchasing campaign. At the time of purchase the seed cotton is
either directly loaded on a truck (and transported to the ginnery), or stored
at the C.R. The storage facilities generally consist of a bamboo shed with
a thatch roof, raised about 3 feet off the ground; although maintenance of
the shed is the responsibility of the village, ONAFITEX pays for a watchman
until the cotton is removed. A representative of the regional administration
usually appears on the day of the sale to claim the taxes due by the village.
10.       A cotton purchasing campaign should normally last 3 to 4 months,
although in the last few years it has extended over a much longer period.
Table 3 shows that, in certain zones, purchasing campaigns have taken up to
12 months or longer. This situation is partly due to physical difficulties;



giNEX 5
Page 5
transport is rendered difficult by the state of the roads, bridges and
ferries, and by a lack of transport for the purchasing teams. The main
reason is, however, organizational: inordinately long delays occur in the
transfer of funds to regions at the start of the campaigns and in the re-
plenishing of these funds as the campaign progresses. For example, purchasing
for the last campaign started in December 1974, but was interrupted after
only a few days for lack of funds; it was not resumed until February 6, 1975.
The purchasing campaign for the December 1973-February 1974 crop was similarly
interrupted.
11.       Implementation of the proposed Project would help to reduce the
length of the purchasing campaign in Equateur region to about 7 months through
the reorganization and rationalization of administrative and financial pro-
cedures. The purchasing campaign would coincide with the crop season, begin-
ning in December in the northern zones and January in the south, and would
continue without interruption. The ONAFITEX buyers who are presently scattered
over the whole of the region, working in isolation in the same area throughout
the whole of the campaign, would be grouped in teams of 3 buyers who would
work in neighbouring C.R.s. Each of the 3-4 proposed teams would have a
landover, equipped with a safe for the transport of the funds and with scales.
These teams would be directed by a chief buyer, based in Gemena, who would
be responsible for scheduling the markets and publicizing the dates on which
the buying teams would visit each C.R.; both regional administrators and
farmers would thus be kept fully informed as to future buying periods. The
chief buyer would periodically check (every week or 10 days) the cash books
and balances of the buyers, and would at the same time replenish their funds
and confirm their schedules for the next week or more.
Transport of Seed Cotton
12.       The transport of seed cotton from the C.R.s to the ginneries should
be completed approximately one month after the end of the purchasing campaign.
however, in the past this transport period has tended to extend over the
whole year (Table 4) due to:
(a) the excessive time taken to buy the cotton;
(b) the non-availability of ONAFITEX trucks;
(c) recent reductions in the transport capacity of local
contractors, who give priority to products having a
greater density (cement, palm nuts, cotton seed, cotton
bales, groundnuts or coffee) than seed cotton, which,
in addition to its low density, takes a long time and is
difficult to load, and often has to be picked up on very
bad roads (which reduces the life of trucks).
In November 1974, some of the cotton gathered between December 1973 and March
1974 was still stored in C.R. warehouses.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
13.       The average distance between C.R.s and the ginneries is about 60 km
(Table 5), which normally allows only one trip per working day per vehicle,
and one lorry is able to carry about 3 tons. The transport time for cotton
seed in any given zone should not exceed 4 months (this corresponds to 5 months
for the whole of the region because of the one month seasonal difference be-
tween the north and the south), so that one truck should be able to transport
approximately 400 tons of seed cotton each season.
14.       In view of the recent decline in the capacity and efficiency of
local transport facilities, and given the low standards of workmanship in
local workshops (both with regard to facilities and the availability of
spare parts), it is essential that ONAFITEX should have its own means of
transport and its own maintenance facilities. For this reason the Project
would provide ONAFITEX with a sufficient number of trucks to transport all
the cotton produced in Equateur region. As far as possible, the transport
of seed cotton would be coordinated with the operations of the purchasing
teams. In this way the cotton would need to be stored in the C.R.s for the
shortest possible period; this would minimize deterioration of quality, the
risks of pilferage, the cost of employing watchmen, and would facilitate
regular supply of cotton to the ginneries. Return trips would be utilized
to transport the treated seed required for the following year's planting
which would then be distributed to farmers through the C.R.s. The Project
would also include provision for maintenance repair facilities including
tools, equipment and spares for the ONAFITEX vehicles. All trucks with the
exception of a small number used to transport bales of lint to the transit
ports and surplus cotton seed to the COMINGEM factory, would be completely
overhauled between campaigns.
Cotton Ginning
15.       Although the ginning of seed cotton should require only 5 months
(January-June), it is now spread out over the entire year (Table 7). This
delay is not due to a limited capacity on the part of the ginneries, but to
a host of other factors. When fully utilized the ginneries in Equateur
region could gin from 28,000 tons to 29,000 tons in a five month period, at
the present time, however, they are operated at about only 30% of their full
capacity (Table 7). The main factors contributing to this under-utilization
are:
(a) the slow and irregular supply of seed cotton;
(b)  frequent stoppages (some lengthy) due to lack of
spare parts, as inventories are often allowed to
run dangerously low;
(c)  reduced productivity due to the fact that operating
components (saw brushes and bars) are not replaced
immediately, or are replaced (particularly in the
case of brushes) by locally manufactured components
which are not an exact fit; and



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(d) periodic shortages of fuel ail, jute wrappers, and
quick-link.
16.       Thirty new ginneries, including 7 allocated to Equateur region,
were purchased by Government a little over two years ago. These gins are
much more sophisticated than the existing facilities and require less man-
power, but they are also far more delicate and prone to breakdowns; in addi-
tion, all levels of staff necessary to run them must be given considerable
training before the gins could be put in operation. Although these new
gins were delivered two years ago, they are still stored in their original
packing cases out in the open; consequently it is likely that due to losses,
damage, and deterioration it would be a difficult and costly task to make the
gins operationl. However, as ONAFITEX recently took over responsibility for
the operation of all gins within the country, it no longer needs this addi-
tional capacity to process its cotton. It is therefore recommended that the
new gins be carefully stored and protected until such a time as a need for
them might arise,
17.       The Project would include provision for the overhaul of the older
ginneries in the Project area; this would include the rehabilitation and
repair of buildings, and the provision of some additional features such as
electric lighting. The Project would also provide for the building up of
a spare parts inventory - indispensable for normal operations in view of the
prolonged delivery period. Provided that a required list of materials and
spare parts is compiled by a specialist acceptable to IDA and an order is
placed for the required items, the foreign exchange costs of this order
would be retroactively financed under the Project.
18.       It is recommended also that a study be made by ONAFITEX, with
assistance from Project staff, to determine whether it would be desirable
to put up a new large ginnery using the new machinery near Bosobolo to replace
the old ginneries at Bubanda, Pandu and Dula. The two latter locations are
exceedingly difficult to reach - the cotton lint has to be taken out in small
barges when the river water is very high. The transport costs involved are also
very substantial, the seed cotton has to be transported from the plantations
in the south to the ginneries in the north, and the seed must then be carried
south again to the new COMINGEM oil mill at Gemena. Relocation of the ginnery
capacity could lead to substantial transport economies. Furthermore, a ginnery
using the new high-speed gins would be a useful pilot plant to train staff
for all the other regions of Zaire where new ginneries may be set up.
Transport of Lint and Cotton Seeds
19.       Once separated from the seed the cotton lint is packed in 100 kilo
bales to await transport to the domestic textile mills or to the ports for



ANNEX 5
Page 8
subsequent export. Often, however, the bales are left at the ginneries for
several months before transport can be arranged. This delay is partly due
to difficulties involved in transporting bales from the ginneries to the
transit ports, partly to the inability of the Office National du Transports
(ONATRA) to cope with the volume of tonnage, and partly to the fact that
during the dry season the ports of Dula and Pandu on the Ubangi river and
Businga on the Mongala river are not accessible.
D. Conclusions
20.       As a consequence of the serious deficiencies involved in the
organization of cotton buying and transport, some dangerous trends have
become apparent:
(a) the rural population, which is interested in cotton
only as a source of cash revenues, is tending to
abandon its cultivation. 1/ The considerable reduction
in production recorded over the past few years has its
origin, to a larger extent, in the irregularity and
the lateness of ONAFITEX purchasing campaign.
(b) the seed cotton is frequently stored for several months
under poor conditions at C.R. warehouses; as a result
both cotton and seeds deteriorate, thereby causing
significant losses.
(c) the delay in ginning and the lack of transport leads
to delays in distribution of seeds for the next crop,
and as a result farmers use older seeds and yields are
lower.
(d) the 16 to 18 months gap between the purchase of seed
cotton and the sale of lint results in significant
financial costs, and makes it impossible for ONAFITEX
to repay its outstanding loans (incurred for the financing
of the purchasing campaigns) from commercial banks within
the agreed period.
It is expected, however, that through improvements in the organization and
implementing of the purchasing campaigns and other marketing activities, the
proposed Project would help to reverse these trends.
1/   This tendency is aggravated by the fact that planters find it difficult
ta purchase the goods which they need because of the recent disappearance
of numerous small traders.



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT,
EVOLUTION DE LA PRODUCTION DE COTON GRAINE
DEVELOPMENT OF COTTON SEED PRODUCTION
(1.000 Tonnes/1,000 Metric Tons)
Part de
ANNEES         D.R (      )     D.R          ZONE DE        ZONE DE        D.R KIVU          ET ZONE DE    D.R SHABA      Total       l'Equateur 
YEAR        EQUATEUR       HAUT-ZAIRE      MAHAGI          UVIRA                        SANKURU                                      Share of
SANKURU                         ~~~~~~~Equateur Regior
(O)
1956          18.9            53.0           2.5             6.6            17.0           31.1            27.4           153.8          12.3
-1957          15.4           39.0            1.8             8.5            14.7           26.8            23.9          130.1           11.8
1958          16.2            41.9           1.4             8.8            15.9           30.2            28.0           142.4          11.4
1959          18.0            54.2           3.6            15.1            17.4           37.7            33.7           179.7          10.0
1960          14.2            45.4           3.0            16.0            13.7           26.9            18.9           138.1          10.2
1961           9.4            30.6           2.1            10.2             0.1            8.6             5.8            66.8          14.1
1962           7.6            15.0           0.1             2.7             5.3            4.9             2.8            38.4          19.8
1963           9.5            19.5           0.3             5.2             1.1            4.6             2.7            42.9          22.1
1964           7.3            23.5           0.2             1.2             0.2            4.7             3.3            40.4          18.1
1965           7.3             1.3            -               _              0.1            5.5             3.2            17.4          42.0
1966           6.4             3.0            -               -              0.7            4.7             4.0            18.8          34.0
1967           5.8             2.7            -              1.9             2.7            6.4             6.9            26.4          22.0
1968           6.0            12.3            -              0.8             3.4            8.9             8.0            39.4          15.2
1969           8.7            14.4            -              3.6             5.4           11.1             6.0            49.2          17.7
1970          11.1            '8.2            -              3.8             4.8           11.6             9.3            48.8          22.7
1971          12.9            10.0           0.1             3.9             5.4           18.0             7.6            57.9          22.3          1 
1972           6.3            11.5           0.7             2.7             5.4           15.8             8.6            51.0           12.4
1973          12.7            18.9           2.3             3.2             6.1           17.5             6.5            67.2          18.9          < x
1974           9.8             9.3           2.0             3.4             5.0           14.0             5.0            48.5          20.2          
DR                                                 C DiecioRginaeReioalDier
(1) D.R =Direction Régionale/Regional Directorate



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Productions, importations et exportations de coton-fibre de 1959 à 1974
Productions, imports and exports of cotton fiber from 1959 to 1974
(metric tons/tonnes)
Années                   Production               Importations              Exportations
Year                                               Imports                   Exports
1959                      58890                          _                    52790
1960                      45730                       450                     41500
1961                      19570                          _                    15220
1962                      12300                       690                      9810
1963                      14320                       520                      9130
1964                      13940                          _                     3140
1965                       5680                     11020                       190
1966                       6440                      3370                         _
1967.                      8740                      5880                         _
1968                      13060                      2700                        15
1969                      18060                         20                     6000
1970                      17560                        100                     5560
1971                      18600                          _                     6040
1972                      17800                          _                     4465
1973                  -  23000                           _                     6130            I i
1974                      22000                          _                     2100
Lfl



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATInN P'ROJECT
PROJECT DE RELANCE DU COTTON
Echelonnement de l'achat du coton graine en 1974 dans la zone du projet (Tonnes)
Timing of purchases of seed cotton in 1974 in the project area (Metric Tons)
Achats totaux
par zones
Usines       Février        Mars        Avril          Mai         Juin       Juillet        AoÛt      Septembre   Octobre    Novembre   Décembre   d'usines
Ginneries     February       March        April         May         June        July         August    September   October    November   December   Total purchases
by ginnery
zones
Abumombazy          55            83          29             _-                       -           -             -                                                 167
Bokele             171            21         131            il      s   14            7          33             -                                                 388
Bubanda             97            -           88           451          25            -           -             -                                                 661
Businga            510           271         386           392         360           12          56             -                                                1987
Dula               430           227         493           666          115           -           -             -                                                1931
Gemena             366          362          262           182          27          128          64            22                                         )      1413
Libenge            201            83         181            55          41           30           10            -                                   (_9)(1)       592
Mogalo             366           384         246           148         274          131         295             -        (55)(1)         50          61          1900
Pandu              143            48         127            99          66            -           -             -                                                 483
Yandongi            57            41          14             7           _-                                     -                                                  119
Yakoma             103            70          26            21           -            -           -             -                                                 220
Total mensuel
Tonthl   totaul   2499          1590        1983          2032         922          308         458            22        (55)            50          52          9861
Total cumulé
Cumulative        2499         4089         6072         8104         9026         9334        9792          9814       9759           9809       9861
total
(1) Coton perdu à la suite de l'incendie d'un centre de rassemblement.
(1) Cotton,lost because of fire at one collecting center.



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Echelonnement des apports de coton graine aux usines en 1974 (Tonnes)
Timing of deliveries of seed cotton to the ginneries in 1974 (Metric Tons)
Usines      Février    Mars       Avril       Mai      Juin      Juillet    Août    Septembre   Octobre    Novembre   Décembre   Janvier
Ginneries   February    March      April       May      June       July     August   September   October    November   December   January        Total
Abumombazy        44         70        53          -         -          -         -                -          -                -           -         167
Bokele            51         21        68         24        28         25        53          -         45          34          16         20        385
Bubanda           66         15        56         99        28         25        25          5         84          33          16         75        527
Businga          229        243       231        308         -         82        29         13         130        131          87         58        1541
Dula              78        104        190       227        189       110        139        43         61          83        205         275        1704
Gemena           223        280        191        85         19        67        20         93          il         90         106        119        1304
Libenge           95         38        Ili        54        94         43        42         14          -           -           1         18         510
Mogalo            129       102        190       142        147       168         il       102          75         85         155         84        1390
Pandu             63         67        20         66        73         53         17         _         23           7           -          -         389
Yandongi          48         43         17        il         _-                   -                -                -           -                    119
Yakoma            77         96        27         21         _     -         -          -               -           -           -          -         221
Total mensul    1103       1079      1154       1037       578        573       336        270        429         463        586         649       8257
Monthly total
Total cumulé
Cumulative      1103       2182      3336       4373      4951       5524      5860       6130       6559        7022       7608        8257
total
Achats cumulés
Cumulative      2499       4089      6072       8104      9026       9334      9792       9814       9759        9806       9861
purchases     -
En attente                                                                                                                                                       >
dans les C.   1396       1907      2736       3731      4075       3810      3932       3684       3200        2784       2253                              '*
Stored in C.R
m>
I tD
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___ _____ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Rayon moyen du transport du coton graine par usine
Average distance for transport of seed cotton by ginnery
Abumombazy                                      35.9 kilomètres
Bokele                                          50.0      "
Bubanda                                         28.9
Businga                                         59.9
Dula                                            59.9
Gemena                                          47.7
Libenge                                         86.1
Mogalo                                          77.4
Pandu                                           32.2
Yandongi                                        54.0
Yakoma                                          51.9
Distance moyenne                                58.5 kilomètres
Overall average distance
I  .-    .                .                    .        .   .              .      & |~~~~J
'J'
_ '



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Echelonnement des quantités de coton traité par les usines d'egrenage en 1974
(exprimé en tonnes de coton graine)
Timing of cotton processing in the ginneries in 1974
(in metrie tons of seed cotton)
Usines       Février    Mars        Avril        Mai       Juin      Juillet    AoÛt    Septembre   Octobre   Novembre   Décembre    Janvier
Ginneries   February    March    April            May       June        July      August   September   October   November   December    January    Total
Abumombazy          _          10         12          59         64         23         -            -           -           -            -                      168
Bokele              _           2        35          121         27          16       55            -          26         22            50            -         354
Bubanda                        15        67           57        109         77        106          53           5          63            -           48         600
Businga             -          99        53          309         84        270       219          119           -         102          171          118        1544
Dula                -         105       145          149        123        153        128          48          20         85            74         221         1251f
Gemena              -         100        94           72        320         180       .20          66          46          67          115          134        1214
Libenge             -          30        88          122        127         68        21            -           -           -            -            -         456
Mogalo              -          29        178         114        168        204        202          24          98          85           54          213        1369
Pandu               -           -        35          126         37         79         27           -          29           -            -            -         333
Yandongi            _          Il          1           5         74         25          _     -                 - _         _            _                      116
Yakoma                         19         16          89         97          -          -           -           -           -            -            -         221
Monthly total                 420       724         1223       1230       1095       778          310         224        424           464          734        7626
Total cumulé
Cumulative                    420      1144         2367       3597       4692      5470         5780        6004       6428          6892        7626
total
Apports
cumulés     1103       2182      3336         4373       4951       5524       5860        6130        6559        7022         7608         8257
Cumulative
bringings
En stock dans
les usinem        1103       1762      2192        2006        1354        032       390         350          555        594           716         631
ginneries



ZAII
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT DE RELANCE DU COO0N-
CAPACITE DE TRAITEMENT DES USINES D'EGRENAGE POUR UNE CAMPAGNE DE CINQ MOIS
(Tonnes de coton - graine)
PROCESSING CAPACITY OF GINNERIES FOR A FIVE MONTH SEASON
(Tons of seed - cotton)
Usines      Nombre d'égreneuses  Nombre de scies Capacité d'égrenage         Tonnage traité  Pourcentage d'utilisation
par égreneuse   pour 8 heures/jour (1)       en 1974       de la capacité maximum
Ginneries      Number of Gins        Number of Saws Processing Capacity       Tonnage proces- Percentage of utilisation
by gin        8 hours/day (1)          sed in 1974      of maximum capacity
Abunombazy             1                  80                530                     168                    10
Bokele                 2                  80              1.060                    354                     il
Bubanda                I                  80                530                    600                     38
Businga                3                  80              1.590                  1.544                     32
Dula                   2                  80              1.060                   1.251                    39
Gemena                 I                  90                720                   1.214                    56
Libenge                2                  80              1.060                    456                     14
Mogalo                 2                  80              1.060                  1.369                     43
Pandu                  I                  90                720                    333                     15
Yandongi               1                  80                530                     116                     7
Yakoma                 1                  90                720                     221                    10
T o t a 1                                                 9.580                  7.626                     27
(1)  Si les usines tournent avec 2 equipes (soit 16 heures/jour) la capacité d'usinage passe à 19.160 tonnes
et si elles tournent avec 3 équipes (soit 24 heures/jour) leur capacité atteint 28.740 tonnes.
(I)  The processing capacity of the ginneries would be 19,160 tons if they worked with two shifts (i.e. 16 hours    >
per day), and 28,740 tons if they worked with 3 shifts (i.e. 24 hours per day).
CD



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Prix payés aux Producteurs
Farm Gate Prices
(K/Kilo)
Année/Year                1967    1968    1970    1971    1972    1972    1972    1973    1974    1974    1974    1975    1976
Mois/Month                  X        I       I       IX       VII     IX        X       VI       III     VII      IX       IX      VI
Arachides/Groundnuts
en coques/ in shells                  2                                                             4
décortiquées/shelled                  4                                                             8
Café/Coffee
Baies seches/dry berries
- Robusta                         5 à/to 6 Il                                              9                9
- Arabica                            14.5                                                 18,85 2/         17
Coton/Cotton
10 qualité/lst quality                3.6               4.5    -6.5                                          7 3/                     1Q      20
20 qualité/2nd quality                2.4               3.0      5.0                                        5                          5       15
Mais/Maize
Kasai Oriental                        2                                                             4                                  7      12
Kasai Occidental                      2                                                             4                                  7
Shaba                                 2                                                             4                                  7
Autres/Other regions                  1.5                                                           3                                  7
Manioc seché/Dried cassava              1                                                                               4
Régime de palmier/Palm fruit
Bas-Zaire                             0.35      0.66                      0.80    0.60                                        1
Autres/Other regions                  0.35      0.35                      0.80    0.60                                        1
1/  Variable selon les régions/Varies by region.
2/  Le 20 novembre ce prix a été ramené à 17K/Kilo.On November 20 this price was reduced to 17K/Kilo.
3/  Bien qu'aucun arrêté n'ait été encore publié, le coton était payé en 1974,  8 K et 5 K/Kilo selon la qualité.
Although no decree has yet been published, cotton was purchased in 1974 at 8K or 5K/Kilo according to quality.                                    x
col



ANNEX/ANNEXE 5
Table/Tableau 9
ZAIRE
COTTON REEHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Distribution of Earnings from Sale of Lint
Distribution des Bénéfices Provenant de la Vente de Fibre
Z/TON
Sale Price of Lint 1/                 1,078               Prix de vente de coton fibre
Sale of Cotton Seed 2/                   45               Prix de vente de graines de coton
Z1,123
Export duty (2% fob)                  21.56    2          Droit de sortie
Transport Kinshasa - Matadi            9.00    1          Transport Kinshasa - Matadi
Transport Gemena - Kinshasa           32.00    3          Transport Gemena - Kinshasa
Ginning cost                          75.70    7          Coûts d'égrénage
Project costs                        109.52   10          Coûts du projet
ONAFITEX operating costs             138.10   12          Frais de fonctionnement
Purchase of seed cotton              577.50   51          Achat de coton graine
ONAFITEX surplus                     159.62   14          Excédent de 1'ONAFITEX
Z1,123.00  100
1/ At US Cts 56 lb f.o.b. Matadi
2/ 1.5 tons seed per ton lint, sold to COMINGEM at Z30/ton/1.5 tonnes de graines
par tonne de fibre, vendu à la COMINGEM a Z30/tonne.



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Project Cost Summary/Sorunaire 1/
(Z' 000)
Annual Cost
Year     Year      Year      Year                Foreign         Year 5 Onwards
Anneé    Anneé    Anneé    Anneé    Total        Exchange      Depénses Annuelles
1        2         3         4                %    Devise    A Partir Anneé 5
Transport and                                                                                                    Services de
Marketing Services             710.9    320.4    322.3    208.8   1,562.4  (72)  1,123.0             389.3       Commercialisation
Roada and Bridges              508.9    380.0    630.0    874.0   2,392.9  (66)  1,574.9             323.8       Ponts et Chaussées
Agricultural Services          563.7    604.4    725.8    874.1   2,768.0  (79)  2,185.4              65.1       Services Agricoles
Regional and Head Office                                                                                         Personnel Direction
Staff                          586.2    294.6    302.4    116.7   1,299.9  (80)  1,046.5               4.0       Régionale et Générale
Ginneries                      252.4    136.4    >53.4       53.4      495.6  (83)    410.1            2.2       Ucines
Insect Control                   --        -      180.0    255.0      435.0  (90)    391.5             __        Contrôle des insectes
Sub total          2,622.1  1,735.8  2,213.9  2,382.0   8,953.8  (75)  6,731.4             784.4        Sous total
Contingencies - Physical       156.6    105.8    142.2    162.8        567.4  (75)   ,425.6                      Imprevus des quantités - dEpassement
- Price         351.8    454.8    847.9  1,167.8   2,822.3  (55)  1.5hl.2                                                  - hausse des prix
Total              3,130.5  2,296.4  3,204.0  3,712.6  12,343.5  (71)  8,718.2                          Total
Evaluation                                                              87.0  (20)      17.0                     Evaluation
Studies and Proj.ect Preparation                                      261.0  (90)    235.0                       Etudes et préparation
d'autres projets.            &
12,691.5  (71)  8,970.2                       d         p
1/  Based on the maximum working capital cost requirement principl'e with the exception of
expatriate costs which have been capitialized.
Note:   Expatriate staff costs would be financed by Belgian government;
for the purposes of these tables an average cost of Z 4,170 per
month has been assumed.



ZAIRE
COTTON REhABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Cotton Transport and Marketing Services
Service de Commercialisation du Coton
A à n u a 1  C o a t                                                       Annual Cost
Unit Cost                              C o u t  A n n   e 1             Total Coat       Foreign Exchange        Year 5 Onwards
Cout Unitare   Year/Annee   Year/Annee   Year/Annee   Year/Annee    Cout Total                 Devises          Depenses Annuelles
(Zaires)          1             2              3             4                 _                (Z'OOD)        A Partir Annee 5
STAFF                                                                                                                                                                PERSONNEL
Chief Buyer   (A1)             2,200       (1)   2.2            2.2           2.2           2.2            8.8 3      _        -_                   2.2           Receptionnaire en chef
Buyers         (A2)            1,000      (12)  12.0           12.0          12.0          12.0           48.0        -         --                 12.0           Agent
Expatriate Mechanic           45,000            45.0           45.0          45.0          45.0          180.0        (93)   171.0                  --            Mecanicien expatrié
Drivers   (8)                    400-    (11)   4.0    (16)  6.4   (21)   8.4   (22)   8.8                27.6        --        -                   8.8            Chauffeurs
63.2          65.6          67.6           68.0         264.4         (64)   171.0                23.0
EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                                             EQUIPEMENT
Trucks  (8)                  22,000       (11) 242.0      (5)110.0    (5) 110.0    (1)  22.0            484.0         (75)   363.0                121.0            Camions
4 wd Vehicles                10,700        (5)  53.5            --            --            --            53.5        (70)    37.5                 17.8            Véhicules tout terrain
Workshop Equipment                             194.0           97.0          97.0          97.0          485.0         (80)   388.0                 --             Materiel d'atelier
Repair of Buying Centers                        13.0           13.0          13.0          13.0           52.0        -       - -                  13.0            Réparation Centres de Rassemblement
502.5         220.0         220.0          132.0       1,074.5         (73)   788.5               151.8
OPERATING FXPENSES                                                                                                                                                    FRAIS ANNUELS
House                          2,280              2.2           2.3           2.2            2.3           9.0         (40)     3.6                 --             Logement
Trucks                         6,500      (19) 123.5      (5) 32.5    (S)  32.5    (1)   6.3             195.0         (75)   146.3               195.0            Camions
4 vd Vehicles                  3,900       (5)  19.5            _                                         19 5        (70)    13.6                 19.5            Véhicules tout terrain
145.2          34.8          34.7            8.8         223.5         (73)   163.5               214.5
TOTAL                                 710.9          320.4         322.3         208.8       1,562.4         (72) 1,123.0                389.3            TOTAL
c==   ___==   ====   ==r=  e~-s=e==-   =__.            ====
Vehicle Replacements by Onafitex                                                                                                                                      Remuplacement de véhicules
Outside scope of project                                                                                                                                            par 1'ONAFITEX hors projet
Trucks (4 year life)               (4)  40                                    (5)  50 .                                                                    Camions (4 ans)                  c j
4 vd Vehicles (3 year life)                       (4) 22                                                                                                   Véhicules tout terrain
1/ Increm_ntal expenses only/Frais différentiels seulement



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Roads and Bridges/Ponts et Chaussées
(ZwOOO)
Annual Cost
Unit Cost            Year    Year    Year    Year              Foreign Exch.      Year 5 Onwards
Cout Unitare           Annee   Annee   Annee   Annee   TOTAL        Devices       Depenses Annuelles
(Zaires)               1        2       3       4       -            (Z0ooo)   A Partir Annee 5
EQUIWENT                                                                                                                     EQUIP~ENT
Graders (120 HP)           42,000           (2) 84.o      -       -       -       84.o    90     75.6           16 8  /  Nivelleuse
Bulldozer (145 HP)         48,ooo           (i) 48.o      -       -        -      48.o    go     43 2             -       Bulldozer
Front loaders (85 HP)      30,000           (2) 60 o      -       -  (2) 60.o  120.0    go    108.0             15.0  2   Pelle chargeuse
Tippers                    20,000           (9)180.o      -       - (11)220.0   400.0   80    320.0             55.0  2   Camion benne
Pick up                     6,ooo           (4) 24.o      -       -  (4) 24.0    48.o    go      43.2           12.0  2   Camionette
Tools, implements,
spare parts                                   112 9      -       -        -    112.9    85      95.9            8.o      Outillage divers
Sub-total                          508.9     -              304.0   812.9   84    685.9           106.8       Sous-total
GRADING & REHABILITATION                                                                                                     REPROFILAGE ET
REHABILITATION
200.0   250.0   352.0  802.0   51    408.o             201.0
BRIDGES                                                                                                                     PONTS
Permanent                                        _      110.0   260.o    68.o   438.o    70    307.0             -       Permanent
Semi-permanent                                   _       70.0   120.0   150.0   340.9   70    174.o             16.o     Semi-permanent  C
Sub-total                            -     180.0   380.0   218.0   778.0    56    481.o            16.0      Sous-total
TOTAL                          508 9   380.o   630.o   874.o  2392.9   66   1574.9            323.8      TOTAL
2]  At 1/5 total cost annually for replacement from Yr. 5 onwards.   1/   A 1/5 des couts pour remplacement à partir de l'annee 5
2    At 1/4 total cost annually for replacement from Yr. 5 onwards.   |   A 1/4 des couts pour remplacement à partir de l'annee 5.



ANNEX/ANNEXE 6
Table/Tableau 4
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROGRAM
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Agricultural Services/Services Agricoles
(Z'000)
Annual Cost
Year     Year      Year      Year                Foreign       Year 5 Onwards
Unit Cost      Annee    Annee    Annee    Annee    Total    Exchange   Depenses Annuelles
Cout Unitare       1         2         3        4         _      %   Devise   A Partir Annee 5
STAFF                                                                                                               PERSONNEL
Extension staff  (5)  40,000    120.0    200.0    200.0    200.0    720.0  (95)  684.0               __          Agronomistes
Research
specialist       (1)  54,000      54.0      54.0      54.0       4.5    166.5  (95)  158.2          --          Specialiste en recherches
Training
specialist       (1)  42,000      10.5      42.0      42.0      42.0    136.5  (95)  129.7          --          Specialiste en formation
Zairian
Deputies Ai      (7)   1,800       12.6     12.6      12.6      12.6      50.4   --      --        12.6
Zairian
Assistants A2   (7)   1,440        10.1     10.1      10.1      10.1      40.4   --      --        10.1
Sub-total                      207.2    318.7    318.7    269.2  1,113.8  (87)  971.9            22.7         Sous-total
Vehicles, Equipment                                                                                                 Véhicules, equipement
4 wd vehicles    (5)  10,700        53.5      --        --       53.5    107.0  (70)   74.9         17.8         Véhicules tout terrain
Pickups           (2)   7,800       15.6      --        -        15.6      31.2  (80)   25.0         --          Camionettes
Small cars        (7)   4,480       31.4      --        --       31.4      62.8  (90)   56.5         --          Petite voitures
Mopeds           (14)      290       4.1      --        __        4.1       8.2  (70)    5.7         1.3         Velomoteurs
Bicycles        (146)      107      15.6      -         --        --       15.6  (50)    7.8         4.0         Velos
Tools &                                                                                                          Outillage et
Materials                          39.0     58.4      87.7    146.1    331.2  (75)  248.4           --           Materiel
Sub-total                      159.2      58.4      87.7    250.7    556.0  (75)  418.3          23.1         Sous-total
Civil Works
House at Bosobolo       56,500      56.5       --       --        --       56.5  (50)   28.3         --          Logement à Bosobolo
Rehabilitation,
Boketa               45,200       22.6     22.6       --        --       45.2  (40)   18.1         --          Remise en etat Boketa
Sub-total                       79.1      22.6       --        --      101.7  (45)   46.4         --          Sous-total
Tnputs
Insecticides &                                                                                                   Insecticides et
Demonstration                                                                                                    materiel de
Materials                          51.8    138.0    253.0    287.5    730.3  (80)  584.2            --           propaganda
Bunning Expenses                                                                                                    Frais Annuels
4 wd vehicles    (5)   3,250        16.2     16.3      16.2      16.3      65.0  (80)   52.0        16.3         Véhicules tout terrain
Pickups           (2)   2,600        5.2       5.2      5.2       5.2      20.8  (80)   16.6         --          Camionettes
Small cars        (7)   1,950       13.6     13.7      13.6      13.7      54.6  (80)   43.7         --          Petite voitures
Mopeds           (14)       78       1.0       1.1      1.0       1.1       4.2  (70)    2.9         1.1         Velomoteurs
Bicycles        (146)       13       1.9       1.9      1.9       1.9       7.6  (50)    3.8         1.9         Velos
Houses                   4,070      28.5     28.5      28.5      28.5    114.0  (40)   45.6          --          Logements
Sub-total                       66.4      66.7      66.4      66.7    266.2  (66)  164.6         19.3         Sous-total
TOTAL                          563.7    604.4    725.8    876.1  2,768.0  (79)2,185.4            65.1         TOTAL



ZAIRE
PEHiABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DN COTON
ONAFITEX REGION1AL AND HEAD OFFICE STAFF
PERSONNEL DES DIRECTIONS REGIONALE ET GENERALE DE 1'ONAFITEX
(2'OOO)
A n n u a 1  C o s t                                                   Annual Cost
tUnit Cost                            C o u t  A n n u e 1              Total Cost   Foreign Exchange    Year 5 Onwards
Cout Unitare   Year/Annee    Year/Annee    Year/Annee    Year/Annee   Cout Total           Devices         Depenses Annuelles
(Zaires)          1             2              3              4                        %     (Z'OOO)      A Partir Annee 5
STAFF                                                                                                                                                         PERSONNEL (Consultants)
Regional Director             60,000          60.0           60 O           60.0           60. 0         240.0       (97)    228.0               -         Directeur Regional
Chief Accountant              50,000          50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0          200.0       (95)    190.0               -         Chef comptable
Regional Accountant            50,000          500           500          50.0              -          150.0       (95)    143.0               -         Comptable régional
Logistics and Supply Officer 45,000            45.0           45.0           45.o             -          135.0       (95)    128.3                        Agent-logistique et four-
-                   ~~~~~~nitures
Liaison Officer                50,000         37.5           50.0           50.0              _          137.5       (95)    130.6               -        Agent de Liaison
Organization Expert           60,000          60.0              -              -              -           60.0       (95)     57.0               -         Expert en organisation
Financial Consultant           60,000          30.0             -                             -           3°°        (95)      29.0              -         Consultant financier
Sub-total                  332.5          255.0          255.0          110.0          952.5       (95)    905.9               -
STAFF (Zairian)                                                                                                                                               PERSONNEL (Zairian)
Deputy Logistics & Supply                                                                                                                                 Agent adjoint-logistique
Officer                         1,800           1.8            1.8            1.8            1.8           7.2         -         -              1.8        et fournitures
CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                                                                  TRAVAUX
Cemena Office Extension       56,500          56.5              -              -              -           56.5       (50)      28.3              -         Ext. bureau  Gemena
Hlouses                        56,500         113.0             -              -             _           113.0       (50)      56.5                        Logements
Sub-total                   169.5              -              -              -          169.5       (50)      84.8              -
EQI PMENT                                                                                                                                                     EQITIPEMENT
Vehicles - Gemena Type 404    7,790             7.8                           7,8             _           15.6       (90)      14.0              -         Vehicules Type 404
Kinshasa Type R4   3,890           11.7             -              -              -            11.7       (90)     10.5             0.9        Kinshasa. Type R4
Gemena Type R4      4,480           4.5                    -                                   _L.-      (90)       4.1              -         Gemena Type R4
Sub-total                    24.0              -            7.8             -            31.8       (89)     28.6              0.9
OPERATING EXPENSES                                                                                                                                            FRAIS ANNUELB
Nouse Maintenance & Services  2,275             4.6            4.6            4.6            2.3          16.1       (40)       6.4              -         Entretien logements et
services
House rent - Kinshasa           9,620          38.4           19.2           19.2             -           76.8         -         -               -         Location maisons
- Gemena            6,240           6.2            6.2            6.2             -           18.6         -         -
R4     .1,300           5.2            5.2            5.2             -            15.6       (80)     12.5             1.3
Taxis                           1,404           1.4                           -                            7.8         -         _                         Taxis
58.4           37.8           37.8            4.9         138.9       (18)     27.2              1.3
TOIYL                                      294.6          302.4          116_7        1,299.9       (80)  1,046.5              4.0
August 10, 1976



ZAIRE
COTTON REIIAnTI'I.'ATUION PROJTECT
PROJET DE REI.ANCI DIJ COTON
Chinneries/Usines
(z  no0)
A n n u a l  C o s t                                                   Annual Cest
Ulnit Cost        __         __           C o ù t  A n n n e 1          TItel Cost      Foreign Exchange       Year 5 Onwards
Cout Unitare   Year/Annee   Year|Annee   Year/Annee   Year/Annee    Cont Total                Devises          Dipenses Annuelles
(Zaires)          1             2           _ 3              4           _             2_ _ %  (Z'O00)        A  '_artir Anneé 5
STAFF                                                                                                                                                                  PERSONNEL
Expatriate Chief Engineer            45,000         45.0           45.0           45.0          45.0          180.0          95     171,0                 -         Chef Ingénieur (Expatrié)
Deputy Chief Engineer                 2,200           2.2           2.2            2.2            2.2            8.8         -         -                 2.2        Ingénieur
Ginnery Managers (supplement)           400           6.4            -              _             -             6.4          -         -                 6.4        Chef d'usines  (Snipplément)
51.6                                        47.2          195.2         88      171.0               8.6
EQUIPMENT & REPAIRS
Generating equipment                               100.0           75.0             -             -           175.0          90      157.5                _         Forces Motrices
Cinning machinery                                    3.0             -              -             -              3.0         90        2.7                _         Egreneuses
Building repairs                                     5.0             -              -             -             5.0          40        2.0                _         Réfection batiments
Spare parts                                         72.0             -              -             -            72.0          90       64.8              18.0        Piécesde Rechange
Installation costs                                  12.0            8.0             -             -            20.0          --                           -         Frais d'installation
Pick-up                               2,600          2.6             -                    -        -             2.6         80        2.1                -         Camionette
194.6          83.0             -              -           277.6         83      229.1              18.0
MISCELLANEOUS                                                                                                                                                          DIVERS 
Ilouise rent                          6,200          6.2            6.2            6.2           6.2           24,8          -         -                  -         Location de Maison
6.2           6.2            6.2                          24.8
T 0 T A L                                          252.4         136.4            53.4          53.4          495.6          83      400.1              26.6        Total



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Insect Control/Contrôle des Insectes
(z '000)
Annual Costs
Year     Year     Year      Year                Foreign Exchange      Year 5 Onward
Anneé    Anneé    Anneé    Anneé      Total         Devises           Depenses Annuelles
1        2        3        4                     x        Z          A partir Anneé 5
Insecticides       -        -       170.0    240.0     410.0        90    369.0                 _         Insecticides
Rand Duaters       -         -       10.0     15.0       25.0       90     22.5                 -         Poudreuses à
main
Total          -        -       180.0    255.0     435.0        90    391.0
t.
0M
F.|



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT DE RELIANCE DU COTTON
Transport Aspects and Proposed Road Component
A.   Transport System
General
1.        The Ubangi-Mongala sub-region is linked to Mbandaka and Kinshasa
by river for freight and by air for passengers. The great distances to
Kinshasa (1,000 to 1,400 km) and the relatively poor quality of river trans-
port services will continue to be a serious handicap for the development
of the well diversified agricultural production of the sub-region: coffee,
palm products, cotton, groundnuts, etc. Ongoing prograns for the improvement
of river transport and the continuous development of domestic air transport
and telecommunications should, over the coming years, alleviate the relative
isolation of the sub-region.
2.        Transport and communications within the project area rely on an
extensive network of low standard earth roads and tracks. Administration,
construction and maintenance of roads as well as ferry operation is the
responsibility of the Office des Routes (OR), an autonomous government agency
established within the Department of Public Works.
Air Transport
3.        The recent development of domestic air transport has considerably
facilitated communications between the project area of Kinshasa and Mbandaka.
Air-Zaire, the national carrier, runs almost daily scheduled services between
Kinshasa, Mbandaka and Gemena, Libenge and Lisala. Gemena will soon be
equipped with a paved runway capable of accommodating medium range jets. A
new airport is being built also at Badolite a town to the North-East of the
project area.
B.   Roads
The Network (see Map IBRD 11863)
4.        The Ubangi-Mongala region was served by a relatively dense network
of low-standard earth roads and tracks which was developed during the colonial
period to support cotton production. After 1960, maintenance and repair of
roads and bridges was neglected, resulting over the years in a general
deterioration of the network. The terrain is easy and in general suitable
for earth roads which, in view of the heavy rainfall require continuing
maintenance. The major causes of road closurès are failure of bridges and
flooding of causeways. The haphazard operations of ferries also constitutes
a serious obstacle to the establishment of reliable communications.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        In considering primary and secondary roads no distinction was made
between cotton and other traffic (coffee, palm products). To review the
needs for capital improvement, particular attention was paid to the roads
serving cotton producing areas. In brief, out of a total of about 4,380 km
of roads and tracks serving the project area:
(i) about 1,180 km are currently maintained as primary roads
(see Table 1) and offer reasonable level of serviceability;
(ii)  about 1,560 km are only maintained by labor and offer a
level of serviceability ranging from minimum (rainy season,
forest area) to acceptable; and
(iii) the rest of the network consists of 1,630 km of unmaintained
tracks, which are either impassable or only accessible to
four-wheel drive vehicles.
6.        The general layout and characteristics of the network are generally
in line with the transport requirements of various sub-regions and with theï-
low volume of traffic.  The need is for strengthening and expanding, rehabili-
tation and maintenance of existing roads. Two intra-regional links would
deserve capital improvements:
(i) the Bosobolo-Boyasegeze road (119 km) would have to be
reopened to provide a direct link between Businga (river
port) and the Northern part of the project area; and
(ii)  a bridge should be built over the Lua River to establish
one permanent road link between Gemena and Libenge, Zongo.
The two sub-irojects would be included in the project.
Road Administration and Maintenance
7.        Roads in the project area are under the responsibility of OR's field
division (Secteur) of Lisala which depends administratively on the Equateur
Regional Office in Mbandaka. The OR is still in the process of developing
its field organization and to date has been able to man only three of the
five field representative positions in the project area:  Gemena, Libenge
and Businga. The OR presence in the field is weak. Its representatives are
all Junior engineers. They lack necessary means of transportation to super-
vise theïr network. Coordination between field offices and OR headquarters
is lacking.
8.        Since 1972, the main oblective of the OR has been the rehabilitation
and maintenance of existing primary and secondarv roads and the repair of



ANNEX 7
Page 3
ferries. As it did not have the necessary field organization to support
large departmental forces the OR contracted out road maintenance works under
conventions with contractors or important users. Primary roads receive
mechanized maintenance (Z400 per km per year). Secondary roads are only
maintained by labor; so-called manual maintenance (Z100 per km per year).
The convention system brought a noticeable improvement in the condition of
the network but suffered from frequent revisions decided by OR Headquarters.
One should note that ONAFITEX was entrusted with about 1,000 km of rural
roads but failed to carry out any work at all although it received several
payments from the OR. Its convention was subsequently suspended.
9.        The OR has recently been called on to redefine its highway policy
in the framework of the radicalization measures initiated in early 1975.
Under the new policy the OR retains direct responsibility for "R.I.G.
Prioritaires" (Routes d'Interest General) to receive mechanized maintenance,
and "R.IT G. Seconde Priorite" to be maintained by road gangs under the
convention system. Manual maintenance is adequate to maintain lateral
drainage and to fill potholes. It can hardly correct irregularities in the
roadway. Therefore the project would provide mechanized grading for impor-
tant secondary roads.
10.       The main thrust of the new highway policy is rapidly to expand
maintenance of rural roads under the responsibility of local Poads Committee.
The Committees, one per sub-region, select roads to be maintained and propose
firms or organizations to be engaged by OR to carry out manual maintenance
under the convention system. The principle of decentralizing the mainte-
nance of rural roads is a good one. The problem is to find serious and
competent contractors. The selection process in the project areas was some-
what arbitrary and one can expect that there will be a high rate of dropouts.
The OR would have to supervise closely the performance of new contractors
and weed out deficient ones. Most of the newly contracted roads are presently
impassable and would require some form of rehabilitation. The project would
include the summary rehabilitation of about 435 km of local roads of parti-
cular interest to cotton production.
11.       The OR is developing with IDA assistance (Third Highway Project,
Cr. 536-ZR) a logistics support organization to manage, repair and maintain
its equipment fleet. Workshops and logistics bases are being set up in all
OR Regional Offices. The project area would thus depend on the Equateur base
in Mbandaka. Liaison between Mbandaka and Gemena are difficult. Air trans-
port is the only direct route. It is therefore apparent that the OR will
not for some years have the capacity to support a scattered equipment fleet
in the proJect area.
12.       The conclusion of the review of the road network serving the
project area is that the cotton/foodcrops project should be accompanied
by measures to strengthen and expand road maintenance, and by a program of
capital improvements. These programs are necessary complements to the
project and should be undertaken together with it so as to be fully opera-
tional when cotton production starts to pick up say from 1977-78.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Routine Maintenance Requirements
13.       The OR should continue to maintain regularly primary and secondary
roads in the project area and pursue the ongoing program to develop main-
tenance of rural roads. Routine maintenance requirements are reviewed in
Table 1:
Primary Roads R.I.G. Pr.; mechanical maintenance; 1,184 km including
Akula-Gemena (115 km) road.
Secondary Roads; manual maintenance; 1,362 km including all roade
maintained by CTB and CDI (see Table 1).
Rural Roads; new contracts for manual maintenance.
Ferries: Strengthening of capacity to maintain ferries and operate
them reliably.
Total annual maintenance requirements for Ubangi-Mongala estimated at
Z700,000 (1975 values). During negotiations the Government confirmed
that from 1977 onvards the current maintenance program of the OR for the
Ubangi-Mongala region vill at least include the elements listed in Table 1
and that the necessary funds, equipment and staff vill be made available for
the purpose.
14.       The above maintenance program would be carried out by OR's own
forces or through contractors. Within the first year of the project the
OR should take the following organizationai measures to strengthen its field
offices:
(i)  to fill all positions of field representatives in the project
area with qualified staff; and
(ii) to set up a special unit based in Gemena for the maintenance
and operation of ferries.
The above measures were confirmed during negotiations.
C.   Road Component
15.       The road component of the project includes:
(i) a program of road grading and rehabilitation which would
complement the current maintenance program outlined above; and
(ii) a program for the construction and repair of bridge which wvould
facilitate general communications and give access to areas with
good potential for cotton production.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Grading and Rehabilitation
16.       Two grading units would be established under the project to carry
out grading and spot regravelling of 1,201 km of secondary roads (list given
in Table 2. The project would also provide two mechanized units to carry
out rehabilitation to secondary road standards of the Bosobolo-Boyasegeze
road (119 km); and summary rehabilitation of about 435 km of local access
roads serving directly cotton producing areas (see Tables 3 and 4), where the
scope of work, the composition of the units and their operating costs and
their program are analyzed. After completion of the project, i.e. after
1980, OR would pursue the grading and rehabilitation programs under its
current maintenance program. This was confirmed during negotiations.
17.       The equipment requirements including provisions for renewal are
given in Table 6. The equipment would be procured by the SGMTP 1/ the equip-
ment branch of the OR on account of the ONAFITEX Project Unit.  ONAFITEX
mechanical workshops (Gemena and Businga) to be renovated under the project
would ensure the maintenance of the equipment which would be used directly
by the OR or leased out to qualified contractors. The responsibility for the
maintenance of equipment would be transferred to the OR as soon as it will
have established a logistics base in the project area. This however, is not
expected before 1978-79. During negotiations the Government confirmed that
before June 30, 1978 the OR would prepare plans acceptable to the Association
to establish an equipment support base in the project area.
Bridge Repair and Construction (Table 5)
18.       The project would include a comprehensive program for repair and
construction of bridges including:
(i)  The construction of one major bridge (about 80 m of span) over
the Lua River at Boyase or if a study reveals it to be of higher
priority, two bridges over the Lua Vindu and Lua Dekere on the
Gemena-Bokada road;
(ii) A program for the repair of existing permanent bridges (span
13 to 43 m); and
(iii) A program for the reconstruction of about 50 wooden bridges
(span 4 to 7 m) on secondary and local roads in the project
area.
Table 5 contains indications concerning scope of work and cost estimates.
Implementation
19.       The road component would be carried out by the OR in accordance with
the terms of an agreement to be made between the OR and ONAFITEX describing the
1/   Service de gestion du Materiel de Travaux Publics.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
functions and responsibilities of each with regard to the road component.
Conclusion of this agreement would be a condition of disbursement for the
road component. The OR would establish a special unit in Gemena to carry
out this part of the project. This unit will be headed by a Zairian engineer
and vill be given all necessary assistance by OR Central Departments. Re-
habilitation works would normally be contracted out to qualified local
organizations. Grading would be carried out by OR's own forces. Part (i)
major bridge, and (ii) repair of permanent bridges, would be engineered
by OR's Central Engineering Department and entrusted to qualified contractors
selected on the basis of competitive bidding. Part (iii) wooden bridges,
would be summarily engineered and entrusted to local firms vith suitable
experience. The OR vould prepare annual programs for grading and rehabili-
tation. Such annual programa vould be agreed with ONAFITEX. Engineering
and bidding documents for bridges would also be submitted to IDA. Avard
of contracts would be in accordance vith Bank/IDA guidelines.
20.       The ONAFITEX Equateur Regional Directorate in Gemena would review and
approve annual roads and bridge programs proposed by the OR as vell as major
decisions concerning the award and administrations of contracts and channel
the funds necessary to finance the program.
21.       ONAFITEX mechanical workshops would support the road construction
equipment procured under the project. The proposed arrangements would
strengthen the role of the OR in the project area and might serve as a
precedent for similar programs in other regions.  It was found preferable to
restrict the role of ONAFITEX to overall supervision, financial control and
maintenance of equipment. ONAFITEX was not an acceptable choice as executing
agency in view of its poor record in maintaining more than 1,000 km of
secondary road entrusted to it by the OR over the last two years.
22.       The road component would be carried out over a four year period.
Year 1 would be devoted to setting up organizational arrangements, ordering
equipment, preparing engineering and contract documents and refurbishing
mechanical workshops. The grading and rehabilitation works would be carried
out over a period of three years from year 2 to year 4. Construction and
repair of bridges would be completed vithin three years after the start of
the program.
Cost Estimates and Financing
23.       Cost estimates are shown in Annex 6, Table 3. They are based on
manufacturers' quotations for equipment and on recent OR studies for
rehabilitation and bridge repairs. The cost of the large bridge over the Lua
River is only an order of magnitude. The project provides for replacement
of those pieces of equipment which vill be vorn out before the end of the
project.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
24.       Road equipment cost amounts to Z813,000, IDA would finance the
foreign exchange component amounting to about Z681,000, (US$0.78 million).
Local costs would be covered by the Government through a special allocation
in the OR budget. OR contribution as well as IDA funds would be channelled
through the ONAFITEX Project Unit. The OR and ONAFITEX Project Unit would
define procedures acceptable to IDA to keep track of expenditures incurred
for the project. In the case of procurement of equipment or contracts for
bridges, project expenditures would be identifiable. For rehabilitation works
contractors would submit monthly statements reflecting total expenses minus
leasing of project equipment. ONAFITEX would add equipment maintenance
charges to the net and recover the foreign component (52%) from IDA and the
local costs (48%) from OR. In the case of force account works the OR would
prepare monthly statements reflecting out-of-pocket expenses to which ONAFITEX
would add equipment maintenance charge. The OR and ONAFITEX Project Unit
would also have to set up a revolving fund to support the program.
Trucking
25.       Transport of cotton takes place in three stages:
(i) Seed cotton is delivered to ONAFITEX collecting centers (centres
de rassemblement) farmers headloading their own production.
(ii) ONAFITEX using mostly its own trucks, gathers cotton seed to
ginneries. Average hauling distance is about 60 km. Gathering
takes place on rural and secondary roads at an average cost of
16 to 22 K/TK. The average cost of gathering in the project would
go down to 12 to 18 K/TK as a result of planned road maintenance
and improvement programs. Trucks gathering cotton seed are also
used for the distribution of inputs and seeds to farmers.
(iii)  Cotton fiber in bales are shipped from ginneries to river ports
for evacuation to Kinshasa. Seeds not needed for sowing will be
trucked to the COMINGEM oil mill in Gemena, mostly on secondary
and primary roads at a cost between 12 and 16 K/TK.
26.       The building-up of in-house trucking capacity is essential for the
establishment of a reliable marketing organization. The ONAFITEX truck fleet
is used only seasonally and constitutes a heavy burden from the viewpoint of
finances and management. As cotton production increases and as the condition
of the road network improves, ONAFITEX should, in the future, attempt to
reduce its direct involvement in trucking by relying more on private truckers
for gathering of cotton seed and evacuation of fibers and seeds.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Economic Evaluation
97.       Cotton is one of the many productions of the area and in terms of
tonnages, accounts only for a small percentage of the total demand for road
transport. At the end of the project period one can roughly estimate that
the transport of cotton products will represent about 15 to 25 percent of
agricultural traffic in the central and western parts of the project area and
20 to 40 percent in the Northern part. The proposed road component will
benefit productive activities other than cotton and was therefore designed
in light of all road transport requirements of the project area. Roads
proposed for summary rehabilitation were selected to open up areas with good
potential for cotton.
28~,      Although the proposed road component is a necessary complement of
the cotton development project it should be evaluated separately on the basis
of its impact on road transports and economic activities in the project area.
Available information on traffic volume, transport costs, etc., are by far
insufficient to quantify the economic return of the proposed road component.
Summary estimates of return ratio for important components are well justi-
fied.
Order of Magnitude
-    Grading              B/C ratio                 More than 1.24
-    Rehabilitation       B/C ratio                 About 1.30
-    Large Bridge Lua
River             First Year Return:         More than 20 percent
29.       The recommended programs of current maintenance and improvements
are well balanced. The scope of the proposed maintenance and improvement
measures can be considered adequate in view of the characteristics of the
network and the volume and distribution of traffic. The methods proposed for
road maintenance and improvements are sound and have been field-tested in Zaire.
They involve considerable use of labor. Reliance on equipment has been kept
ta the minimum. The main uncertainty concerning the effectiveness of the
proposed road program comes from the many problems which will hinder its
implementation arising in particular from the lack of qualified staff and
from all the difficulties of logistics and communications in isolated rural
areas of Zaire. The provision of technical assistance and the establishment
of a supply unit, are attempts to alleviate the above problems. The inescap-
able difficulties that will be encountered in executing the project suggest
that key personnel for the project should be selected with particular care
and that OR Head office as well as the Bank should supervise the project
closely.



ANNEXE/ANNEX 7
Tableau/Table 1
ONAFITEX/OFFICE DES ROUTES
PROJET COTON
ENTRETIEN COURANT
ROUTES D'INTERET GENERAL
ENTRETIEN COURANT
PROGRAMME MINIMUM (1977-80)
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
MINIMUM PROGRAMME (1977-80)
i'e;seau                                 kmn                      Ent reti en
1.  ROUTES PRINCIPALES (pr:ioritaires)
,isala-l.unibLa                       145                        c canise.
,i sala-B}usinga                     204,   P                     "
Geniena- Businga                       154   P
Businga-Mobayi                        163   P
Mobayi-Yakoma                          163   P
Yakoma-Likau                           187
Likau-Baso                              53
Akula-Gemrena                          115   P
Total        1 . i14
'Total P        799
2.  ROUTfS SECONIDAlRFS
_, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                     cn tonnlag e
Lisala-Akula                           180                        manuel
Gemena-Kunigu                          1 15   p
Gemena-13,ari                           50   P
Bari-Bomutu--Boyabo                   106   il
Libenge-Bovabo-Zongo                   113   P
Kungu-Zongo                            95  pi
RouLes agricolest
c;antonnacge
Gemena-Bok;ada                         1 4   P                    mnanuel
i301;acia-I30mu tu                     8I 1   }
bokad a-Bomistbol o-DuF) b  l         I I t   P                    n
D)ubulu-Mo1 egbe                     1 5   P
Banger e 1il  a -Vapi nda--lYako(?a   146(                         t
n  -Moga lo                             51   1
M1ogalo-Bozelle                         37   r
Libi nge '1 ml,onl,o                   9,I1   p
Ylndon( J 'fsb,i- m;,ibi               zi»40
Lji'.;mii-l`.a1+aa-l,okeles-K;u,!n    Ii    1' i"
*~ iL<I   1'   1 . ' 
} ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  O a '    liti'         :1<I"   ."                     - ; ..' }    



ANNEXE/ANNEX 7
Tableau/Table 2
0N.l'iE X/()FF 1( 1. 1)JDS POI ITI: S
1'R()J E.T (;O_J`ON~
COMPOSANTE ROUETI RIE
TRAVAUX ROUTIERS
REPROFILAGE DES ROUTES SECONDAIRES
GRADING OF SECONDARY ROADS
I. "Réseau (km)
Routes non prioritaires                   Routes agricoles
Akula-Gemena               115            Gecnena-Bokada              124
Gemena-Kungu               115            Bokada-Bomutu                81
Gemnena-Bari               50             bokada-Basobolo-Dubulu   118
Bari-Bomutu-Boyebo        106             Dubulu-Molegbe              105
Libenge-Boyebo-Zongo       113            Bari-Mogalo                  51
Kungu-Zongo                95             Mogalo-Bozene                37
JLibenge-Yembongo            91
Sous-Total       594                      Sous-Total         607
Total   1.201 km
Il.  Composition et coût d'une brigade de reprofilage
(Z; 1976)7
Coû t
unitaire    Couit        Part
Matériel                      Nombre      annuel      total    exttrieure
- Niveleuse (1201P)               1         7.000       7.000
- Camion (4 In3)                  2         5.000      10.000
Sous-Total                           17.000
dont   - CoGts d'opération                           10.000   (80%; 8.000)
- Entretien                                   7.000    (80%; 5.600)
Per sonnel
- Chef de Brigade                 1         2.500        2.500
- Administratif                   1         1.300        1;300
- Conducteur d'engin              1         1.200        1.200
Mécanicien                       1         1.000        1.000
- Chauffeur                       2         1.000        2.000
- Capita                          4           500        1.000
- Cantonniers                    40           200       8.000
Sous-Total                           17.000
Outillage                                             4.000    (60%; 2.400)
1fa t ër i auix                                       6.000   (60%; 3.600)
- cout total par an                    45.000         (20.000)
dont   - Coûts ci 'opération         33.00(1(       (14.000)
-- 1ntrtet i en              1 2. ())       ( 6.000)
_Il. 1'rodulctivt mo\'nennic
- Fn foret       130 km-i/an
- F11 sivaiine    160 k1nin



ANNEXE/ANNEX 7
Tableau/Table 3
(     tF   S' ` /!,!   i 1,11|KV  ' } (        Çt
TRAVAUX ROUTIERS
REHABILITATION DES ROUTES SECONDAIRES
REHABILITATION OF SECONDARY ROADS
I . Rétseau
- Bosoboloe-loyaSegezC : 119 km.
Il.  Composition d'une br,igade de rélabilitation
(Z; 1976)
CoGt
annuel      Coût        Part
M',fatéeriel         Nombre        unlitaire    total    extérieure
- Bulld(ozer (145HP)      1           8.000       8.000
- Chargeur (8511P)        1           5.000       5.000
- Camions (4;n3)          4           5.000      20.000
- Pick-up (1 T)           1           3.000       3.000
Sous-Total          36.000
20.000   (80%; 16.000)
16.000   (80%; 12.800)
personne1l
- Chlef de Brigade         1          2.600       2.600
- Admiirnistratifs         2          1.000       2.000
- Mécanicien expérimen1té 1           1.200        1.200
- Mlécanli i cu            1          8.800         800
- Conducteurs d'engin    2            1.200       2.400
- ChatUffr";ll-S           5          1.000       5.000
- Capit.i                  4            500       2.000
- Caintonni(rs            60            200       12.000-
Sous-Total           28.000
O it il  1 a                                * 4.000   (60%;  2.400)
'M it e t- ij î U                               6.000   (60%;  3.600)
- CoCt total par ani         74.000          (35.000)
dont :-Co6ts d'opérationi 5S.000)          (22.000)
-Ent rtien           16.000         (13.000)
i I .  Prl';- }tX, ic ite r;w>'-
-  ,    ,  / . /



ANNEXE ANNEX 7
Tableau/Table 4
ONAFI'ÏSX /OtFi.ICE DES ROUTES
CO:;YOSA'.'1` ROUTIERE
TRAVAUX ROUTIERS
RERABILITATION SOMMAIRE ROUTES RURALES
SUIJRY REUÂBILITArION RURAL ROADS
I.  Reseau (km)
Nord (Savane)                                   Ouest (Forêt)
Baya-Bsduna                 20                  Bobisi-Bobindu    30
Gaba-Bangi                  40                  Budjela-Kungu       55
Bili-bagaembo               35                                     85km
Pandu-iMbele-Duguru-Bili   25 (partiel)
Fotsho-Lombo                7,
14, km
Centre (Savane)
Bonoabo-Bominenge           40
Bongabo-Karawa              30
Bominenge-Bokele            55
Bogose-Nutea-Bayasesebo   40
Bodangabo-Pambwa            40
2.05 km             Total   435 km.
Il. Composition et coOt d'une brigade lé-ère de réhabilitation.
(Z; 1976)_
uniitaire      Coût         Part
iMIatérie]             Nombre        aninuel      total      extérieure
- Chargeur (85HP)           I          6.000        6.000
- Camions (4m3)             2          5.000       10.000
- Pick-up (IT)              I          3.000        3.000
Sous-Total                19.000
dont   - Conus d'opération        11.000    (80%;  8.800)
- Entretien                8.000    (80%;  6.400)
Personnel
- Chef de Brigade           1          2.500        2.5sb
- Administratif             1          1.300        1.300
Mécaniciens               2          1.000        2.000
-Chauffeurs                 3          1.000        3.000
- Conducteurs d'engin       I          1.200        1.200
- Capita                    4            500        2.000
- Cantonniers              40            200        8.000
20. 000
Outillage                                         4.000    (60%;  2.400)
Mlatér jaux                                       6.C00    (60%;  3.600)
CcCt total par an           49.000           (21.000)
dont  C- rots J'opération            37.0nG           (15.000)
- Entre;;en.                 12.000            (6.900)
Ill.  Prrod IJtivit.é .e( 'nnt
-e toen  .    : ou i i:./ n
- en sav.l,:!,  :    -  l!-.ln



ANNEXE /ANNEX 7
Tableau/Table 5
(ONAFITFX1OFF1C>- nF; ROU1JTIS
>:1IO tS,\!`1 r    0is  i 1F.RL
CONSTRUCTION ET REFECTION DE PONTS
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF BRIDGES
1. Programme
Travaux.                   Axe routier             Rivière           Portées (m)
A. - Construction               Boyase-Libenge         Lua                    80
B. - RparatioG  de 9            ZongQ-flbele           Songo                  43
ponts permanents                "                 Mbembe                 28
I4bele--13uguru        Fumbwa                 15
il                Mondjo                 28
Dubulu -Dula
Boyabo-Zongo           Mole                   17
il                Buka                   14
FI                Ngiri                  13
Yernboiigo-I, i 1wnge  Ponzo                  15
C. - Reconstruction dê                                                       21*
50 ponts en bois                                                     (C<tnuléag)
II. Colits estimes
(OOOZ; 1976)
local      extérieur      total
A. - Construction                               90           -             0 
B. - Réparation                                 41            95          136
C. - Reconstruction                            170           170          340
30)          477           778



ANNEXE/ANNEX 7
Tableau/Table 6
1 ' ! v    ) j \ N i   <6'i   J -)-j;
BESOINS EN MATERIEL (1977-1980)
EQUIPMENT NEEDS
Ini Liale  Renouveel-   Total   Utnit  i         o oa    Extcér i t'je
- Niveleuse (120HP?)      2            -           2        42           84      (90%)  76
- Bulldozer (145H1P)       I           -           I        48           4       (90%)  43
- Chargeurs (8'5HP)       2            2           4        30          120      (90%) 108
- Camions (4m3)           9           Il          20        20          400      (80%) 320
- Pick-Up                 4            4           8          6          48      (90%)  43
- Plate-forme de
graissage               2            -           2         4            8     (90%)   7
- Outillages (5v)         -            -           -         -           35      (80%)  28
- Pièces de
rechange (107J)         -            -           -         -           70     (80%)  56
Total   813             681



ANNEXE/ANNEX 7
Tableau/Table 7
. ~ ~ ~ ~~ .ci .1;' . .   .    . E.
}   :     j )            ii I I  s 
ij   L.," L;tU)  I 1>
COUTS ESTIMES DU PROGRAMM DE TRAVAUX ROUTIERS
(ANNEES 1977 A 1980)
ESTIMATED COST OF ROAD WORKS
+10ov2ns mi s en oeuvxr e
Travaux à         Productivité         Nombre de
réaliser          annluelle par        brigades
sur1 !4 ansl.$     rbrigade
Reprofilage de
rotites secondaires           1 .2100 km        130-160 km       2 (année   1--4)
\ ;1ab, i I i ta t ion de
roui-es secondaires             119 km            60 km           1 (anlnée 1-2)
-Réh!a b i. i ta t: ion s oma i r e
de roaltes locales
- Forêt                          85 km            70 km           1 (année 3)
- Savane                        350 km            90 kmr          I (année 1-4)
1 (an.îé e ' )
11  ('ofltstç de l intervention
_ou __-_ _on _(OOOZ; 1976)
1_r_ocluc_t_io                   (coûts exl:érieurs)
Période    Annuelle   Tot-ale          Annuels          Total
Ope.  ent.   OPe.  ont.
- 2 brigades de
reprc f i lag,e      année 1-4    290 km    1.160 km          66     24     264      96
(28)   (12)  (112)  (48)
- 1 brigade, de
réiTihitn5tion     année 1-?       60 km       120 km       58    -16      116     32
(22)   (13)    (44)   (26)
- I br ijad-e 1égire
de réIia1r; I i Latui 1
- <-en ftret         anné6e 3        70 km        85 km       37    1 21    222      72
(15)  (6)      (90) . (3 e)
- en savane          année 1-4       90 km   *  350 kIm
aninée 4
Total       161    52      602    200
(65)  (31)   (2,46) (110)
Coat Total           212             80?
( 96)         (356)



ANNEX/ANNEXE 8
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis
Analyse Economique des Coûts et des Avantages
(Z'000)
Year    Year    Year    Year    Years
Annee   Année   Année   Année   Annees
1       2        3        4      5-20
1.  FOREIGN EXCIIANGE AT OFFICIAL RATE                                               1.  DEVISES AU TAUX D'ECHANGE OFFICIAL
COSTS                                                                                COOTS
Regional and Head Office             586      295      302      117         4      Direction Régionale et Générale
Transport and Marketing 1/            711     463      498      417       389      Commercialisation 1/
Ginneries                             252     136       53       53        27      Usines d'Egrenage
Roads, Bridges (70%)                  356     266      441      612       226      Ponts et Chaussées (70%)
Agricultural Services                 564     604      726      874        65      Services Agricoles
Ginning CostE 2/                       -       46      119      211      211       Conts d'Egrenage j/
Physica-  Cantingencies 3/            113      94      114      124        -       Imprévus Dépassement Quantité 3/
Farm Labour 4/                         60     118      204      235       235      Main d'Oeuvre des Planteurs 4/
TOTAL                       2,642   2,022   2,457   2,643    1,157          TOTAL
BENEFITS                                                                              AVANTAGES
Cotton Fibre 5/                        -      640   1,612   2,892    2,892         Coton fibre 5/
Cotton Seed 6/                         -       31       65       84        84      Graines de coton 6/
TOTAL                          -       671   1,677   2,976    2,976         TOTAL
Internal REte cf Return/Taux de Rentabilité Interne .................2 3Z
IF-P - All costs increased by 15%/TRI, coûts augmentés par 15%   . . 18%
All benefits reduced by 15%/TRI, avantages réduits par 15% .... 17%
15% increase in costa and reduction in benefits/
Augmentation des cofts et réduction des avantages    .          . 12%
Labour shadow priced at 50% official vage rate/
Nain d'oeuvre au prix virtuel de 50% du prix officiel ...... 21%
2.  FOREIGNLEXCHANGE SHADOW-PRICED AT 120%                                            2.  DEVISES AU TAUX D'ECFANGE VIRTUEL DE 120%
COSTS                                                                                COtTS
Regional and Head Office              674      339     347      135         5      Direction Régionale et Générale
Transport and Marketing               818     532      573      480       447      Commercialisation
Ginneries                             290     156       61       61        31      Usinex d'Egrenage
Roads, Bridges                        409     306      507      704       260      Ponts et Chaussées
Agricultural Services                 648      695     835   1,005         75       Services Agricoles
Ginning Costs                          -        57     137      243       263       Coûts d'Egrenage
Physical Contingencies                130     108      131      143        -        Imprévus Dépassement Quantité
Farn Labour                            60     118      204      235       235      Main d'Oeuvre des Planteurs
TOTAL                       3,029   2,307   2,795   3,006    1,296          TOTAL
BENEFITS                                                                               AVANTAGES
Cotton Fibre                           -      -768   1,934   3,470    3.470         Coton Fibre
Cotton Seed                            -        31      65       84        84       Graines de Coton
TOTAL                          -       799   1,999   3,544    3,544         TOTAL
Internal Rate of Return/Taux de Rentabilité Intenç .................. 25%
IRR - All costs increased by 15%/TRI, côots augmentés par 15% ........ 20%
All benefits reduced by 15%/TRI, avantages Téduits par  15% .... 19%
15% increase in costa and reduction in benefitra
Augmentation des coûts et réduction des avantages de 15% ..... 14%
Labour shadow priced at 50% official wage rate/
Main d'oeuvre au prix virtuel de 50% du prix officiel ....... 23%
1/  Including recurrent costs not included in Annex 6                Y compris frais recurrent non compris dans l'Annexe 6.
2/  At E 75.50 per ton cotton fibre, incremental quantities    A E 75.70 par tonne de coton fibre, pour l'accroissement
only.                                                           de quantité
3/  For project costs only at 10% for roads and bridges,            Pour les corts du projet seulement, à 10% pour les ponts
5% for other cosponents.                                        et chaussées et à 5% pour les autres composants.
4/  Incremental fans labour shadow priced at 13.5 k/sianday          Nain d'oeuvre supplémentaire des planteurs au prix
(30Z of official rate)                                          virtuel de 13.5 k/homme-jour. (30% du salaire officiel)
5/  At export parity price f.o.b. Matadi, less costa of             Au prix equivalent d'exportation, f.o.b. Matadi, moins
transport from ginnery.                                         frais de transport de l'usine
6/  Sold ex-ginnery to COMINGEM at B 30 ton; maximum                 Vendu ex-usine à la COMINCEM à Z 30 la tonne, maximum
6,000 tons.                                                     6,000 tonnes.



ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Covernment Cash Flow/Cash Flow de l'Etat
Z'000 1976 Prices/Prix de 1976
Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year
Année   Année   Année   Année   Année   Année   Année   Année   Année
1       2        3        4        5     6-10    11-15   16-20   21-50
CASH INFLOW
IDA Credit Disbursements        839   1,276   1,069   1,410        779      --       -_      __       __       Décaissement des Crédit AID
Incremental Tax Revenue                                                                                        Accroissement des impots sur
on Cotton Exports 1/          --        13       32      58       58       58       58      58       59       la coton 1/
ONAFITEX Debt Service 2/        --        75      109      154     431      431      431      --      ---      Amortissement de la dette de l'ONAFITEX 2/
ONAFITEX Surplus 3/             --       --       --       --      -- _              -        600     600      Excédent de 1'ONAFITEX 3/
Total Inflow           839   1,364   1,210   1,622   1, 268    489         489      658     658      Revenue total
CASH OUTLFOW                                                                                                      DEPENSES MONETAIRES
Loan to ONAFITEX 4/           1,257      563      743     836                                                  Pr--  -    Prêt à 1'ONAFITEX 4/
IDA Credit Service 5/             9       14       19      25       25       25       69      69      125      Service de la dette Crédit AID 5/
Road Rehabilation             1,560      418      693     961      324      324      324     324      324      Programme de remise en état des
Program                                                                                                       Routes
Total Outflow       1,826      995   1,445   1,822        349     349      393      393     449      Dépenses totales
Net Cash Inflow (Outflow)      (987)    369    (245)   (200)    919         140       96     265      209      Revenu (dépenses) net(tes)
Cumulative Cash Inflow                                                                                         Revenu (dépenses) cumulé(es)
(Outflow)     (987)   (618)   (863) (1,063)   (144)    556   1,046   2,361   8,631
1/ Export duty at 2% of f.o.b. value, on incremental                 1/ Taxe de sortie à 2% de la valeur f.o.b. sur l'accroissement
quantities of cotton fibre exported.                                 de coton fibre exporté
2/ IDA Credit,(note 4) on-lent to ONAFITEX at 6% for                 2/ Crédit AID (voir note 4) repréte à 1'ONAFITEX à 6% pour 15
15 years, 4 years grace period.                                      ans, avec l'amortissement différé pendant 4 ans.
3/ Net operating surplus, after transfer to reserves and             3/ Solde de la benefice de l'ONAFITEX aprés pr6l3vement pour fords
and stablization fund.                                             - de reserve et stabilisation de prix.
4/ IDA Credit, covering foreign exchange component of                4/ Crédit AID, y compris partie devises, exclus composant routier
project costs less road component and Belgian                        et contribuition Belge.
financial component
5/ Repayment of principal and 3/4% commitment charge                 5/ Amortissement et commission de service de 3/4% sur conditions
on standard IDA terms.                                               normales des crédits de l'AID.



ANNEX/ANNEXE 10
ZAIRE
COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE RELANCE DU COTON
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
Plan Estimatif du Décaissement du Credit AID
us $'000
IDA FY         Quarter Ending   Disbursement   Cumulative Disbursement
Exercise AID   Fin Trimestre    Décaissement   Décaissement Cumulé        Total Z
1978       September 1977         400                400                 5.0
December  1977         400               800                 10.7
March     1978         500             1,300                 17.3
June      1978         500             1,800                 24.0
1979       September 1978         500             2,300                 30.7
December  1978         400             2,700                 36.0
March     1979         400             3,100                 41.3
June      1979        400              3,500                 46.7
1980       September 1979         600             4,100                 51.3
December  1979         600             4,700                 58.8
March     1°80         600             5,300                 66.3
June      1980         600             5,900                 73.8
1981       September 1980         600             6,500                 81.3
December  1980         500             7,000                 87.5
March     1981         500             7,500                 93.8
June      1981         500             8,000                100.0



N9      1     w r                                         ' fi    IO
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ à   lli
c ff e    o S    > @ ~~~ r n                           on      n                 r                                        n -r
= D = s |     O <X C                                       X                 2n          n  i          tZ <                                 |
-O *n 0r°                                                            -  Oa   n                               a   n I   O   ,- «P
on'n                                          n    n   nfi . Ô Ô = = =         r -   ^     i;    =                           à =  n   n    .   . . .. -
ru.                                         :r 'n      f i f i                n    .          . . .    . . . . .    . .
-~~~~~ on                          .    n                                                               n~~~~~~~ ..    ...   
g~~~~~~~ ~   ~          ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~ .O .z                      . .         . . . . .      .           .      . . .
nu      <On                                   un                                                '    c
=^ n °                                                                                         n  g  
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                .     .                                            
'-      .                         ..                          . .  ...  .  ..  .  ......  ........... ... ... . ... ........   ..... . .. ,  n   .
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . . .  .....    . .. ... ........ .. .. .... .. . . .. ..  . ..  . ,*-t ;
<on  ..                                              .         - 
n--                                                                  '                                                       'uv
O                 00                                                                       'n'               n
Eb                                                                                                 nO o



ZAIRE
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU COTON
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ONAFITEX - Organigramme
Directeur général 
Directeur général adjoint
Direction régionale Equateur (Génnéna)
Direction régionale Haut- ZaFre (Is,ro)
Direction régionale Shaba IKongolo)
Direction régionale Kasai lGa,,dajika>
Direction régionale Kîvu (Kasongo)
Direct'on générale Kinshasa       _       =       Zone Uvira
| O,rection                                                      |       Directo                                              D'rection                   D  Drection                Dlrectton                   Service
administrative                                                        tnanc:ère                                            commerciale                 technique                 agronomique                  médicale
Division                   ~~~~~Division                     Dvsion                        Divisi'on
personnel                                                              f   c secrtariat  i ère       comptabihté DG
n                                   ii             r-
o-               LF            O        ~     
Z                                                                                                  0 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.li1    l~1






E                          W                                               X  T5t C8ZCIRE                                             X                                                 4
g  :5.gm  f  - r  u  o - = ,; E M ^ W1~~~~~~~~~A d                                                                                                                t
K N S H A S A    /                      oKiltwit                Y                       Âmbo                              <           OKebunbure j-
;S6e;_+- 0--R                                    |"                                                                                                                               gb-0Kog     <U:^
Id~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K,






MRC toçSir,                                                                                                                                                                                    .,E er;01J;W-rn "Z2z 59it.u;0@;X; 2- 0 ;1" 00 ,tr  IBRD 1163R
CO   E dN  \                        SyO~   `    -                                                                                                     t                                                             AO. . u IT    H  Z.   0-  :  .Lu;j0 ,$.;  
EUBC                             , -j B                                                                    i i;; At  ?  ! . X g REr tQ 1 PE r SA z jSSK ]SJ J ;;t r u1 r $ X R 2  '  rn  UBLIC OF ZATRE
s                                                                                     C~~~,  OTTON RLAWUfLIATIIUNrw»ç
t             ~~~~ZAIRE                                                                                  2 
0 1-:,c, i  t                                                      ,           -i :
%.    ~~~~~~Cresson Grn rsesd, Refereoce Nuor bar
:l>7                                                                                                           Sanondurro e Raout R Ri R0.  Seuroh FfZYroî t`  y
, B ; 20 ' ~~5'jUr  Q lr.i: :~t' .:D1L5t e>/  r ( Gc c c  sS \  - 2 }    \,OtPe,bwa                     dqes   epo yml\                                       9
0 0  0;  u;t  >   ~  \Kobra                                                                                   --   - -A  SMn~ry  ou R<ehotylond
lJ;0I t4\0u:        l         ti2S|A O-f                                                                                  r  odnr-tol ybRno \>Wpndo  _29G
Bombe  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bang'  & ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ Bunu,e
t  obo>-' v,:    -WM   gJ~-SG                         ~           ~            f  t~\                                                              lL olo
<à          - .t 5t0 C ;   -                                  B arç| oiC<t                                               - --                                                                       -do
Koobo                O' <1                                                             a,, ----oger-o le  o.o-
i.::7;, ~~v                    1                                                           (/ {Budla,  a W!>lr  :22Â
Q        . >,Ç --iS Ç - (r Mu-$lbontenget , Bob d u be.          B    g G n                        b
f~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~e 4Mgl 7d ='o|mine,ogetYmlmb];_                                                                                                          rs                    t/,
L t   ,J'"'-'"''''~ nr ,(,_»
\  ~~~~   Bar-r-orna Y ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    Boa 
251~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
4                   o'                                2W                                  2P                                                                                                      2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~K.s
la a~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            3



