CREDIT NUMBER 660 ZR
OFFICIAL           (Amndn  t)
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Amendment)
(Cotton Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     /C          1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 660 ZR
(Amendment)
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT, dated        Z40       /t0,/1980, between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Asso-
ciation).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a development credit agreement
(Cotton Rehabilitation Project) dated December 28, 1976 between
the Borrower and the Association, as amended by letter dated
August 30, 1978 from the Association to the Borrower (hereinafter
called the 1976 Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to
extend a credit (hereinafter called the 1976 Credit) to the
Borrower in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million dollars ($8,000,000) to assist in the financing of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to such Agreement;
(B) the Borrower's Office National des Fibres Textiles
(hereinafter called ONAFITEX) was, pursuant to the 1976 Credit
Agreement, charged, inter alia, with the responsibility of carry-
ing out the Project described in Schedule 2 to such Agreement;
(C) pursuant to the,Borrower's Ordonnance No. 78-181 dated
May 5, 1978, the Borrower dissolved ONAFITEX;
(D) the Borrower and the Association are prepared to have
Cotonniere du Zaire (hereinafter called Coton Zaire) an organ-
isme of public law organized and operating under the Borrower's
Ordonnance No. 79-280 of December 27, 1979 charged, inter alia,
with the responsibility of carrying out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the 1976 Credit Agreement as amended by Article
17 of this Agreement; and
(E) the parties hereto now deem it to be in their mutual
interest to amend and supplement the 1976 Credit Agreement as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Article 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
1976 Credit Agreement, includiug the General Conditions appli-
cable thereto, and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿-2-
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Subsidiary
Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Article 3 of
this Agreement.
Article 2. Section 3.01 (a) of the 1976 Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows: "The Borrower shall carry out the
Project through Coton Zaire and the Office des Routes with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as n2eded, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose."
Article 3. Section 3.01 (b) 'of the 1976 Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows: "Pursuant to Article 2 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) relend to Coton Zaire not more
than the sum of $5,600,000 equivalent out of the proceeds of the
Credit for 15 years including 4 years of grace at 7.5% per annum
interest under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement containing terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association; (ii) make available
to its Office des Routes the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Part B of the Project and such other funds as shall be necessary
to carry out Part B of the Project through special budgetary
allocations and advance payments; and (iii) review quarterly the
financial situation of Coton Zaire and, at the commencement of
each quarter, transfer to its accounts all funds reasonably
estimated to be necessary for Coton Zaire to carry out the Project
throughout the ensuing quarter."
Article 4. Section 3.03 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows: "In order to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ such manage-
ment personnel, consultants and other experts as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association. Any nomination to the
positions of the D          Gnfral, the Financial Director, and
the Technical Director of Coton Zaire, and the qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment of the consul-
tants engaged for Part H of the Project, shall be subject to the
prior approval of the Association."
Article 5.. Section 3.05 (b) of the 1976 Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows: "The Borrower shall: (i) cause
Coton Zaire to maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to


﻿-3-
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) cause Coton Zaire to furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds."
Article 6. Section 3.06 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows: "For the purposes of carrying out Part
F of the Project, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1980 or
such later date as may be acceptable to the Association, cause
Coton Zaire to enter into an agreement with the National Institute
of Agricultural Studies and Research under which such Institute
will permit Coton Zaire to utilize the facilities of its sub-
station at Boketa for seed multiplication and the development of
farming methods."
Article 7. Section 3.07 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows: "The Borrower shall cause its Office
des Routes:
(a) by December 31, 1977, to complete the staffing of
its field-engineer positions in the Project Area;
(b) by December 31, 1977, to establish units for the
maintenance of ferries and for carrying out Part B of the Project,
respectively; and
(c) by June 30, 1978, to formulate a plan-satisfactory
to the Association to establish, by December 31, 1980, an equip-
ment support base in the Project Area."
Article 8. Section 3.08 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows: "The Borrower shall cause its Office
des Routes to carry out the works included in Part B of the
Project pursuant to annual programs established by Coton Zaire
pursuant to a convention between the Office des Routes and Coton
Zaire satisfactory to the Association, and shall cause Coton Zaire
to establish such programs in agreement with the Association."
Article 9. Section 4.01 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows:


﻿-4-
(a) "The Borrower shall cause Coton Zaire and the Office
des Routes to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of Coton Zaire and the Office
des Routes and shall cause Coton Zaire to keep separate accounts
in respect of the carrying out of the Project."
(b) The Borrower shall cause Coton Zaire: (i) to have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Asso-
ciation; (ii) to furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) to furnish to the
Association such other information con.erning the accounts and
financial statements of Coton Zaire and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request."
Article 10. Section 4.02 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows: "The Borrower shall cause Coton Zaire
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice."
Article 11. Section 4.03 of the 1976 Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows: "Until completion of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause Coton Zaire to submit to the prior
approval of the Association any investment by Coton Zaire the
cost of which exceeds the equivalent of $100,000 per year."
Article 12. Section 4.05 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows: "The Borrower shall cause Coton Zaire:
(i) to appoint a qualified and experienced deputy to the position
of the Financial Director of Coton Zaire; (ii) to establish
the positions of Deputy Training Officer and Deputy Supply and
Logistics Officer; and (iii) to fill promptly with qualified
and experienced replacements any vacancy arising in any such
position."
Article 13. Section 4.06 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows: "The Borrower shall conduct reviews of


﻿-5-
the prices paid to producers of seed cotton and of the sale
price of cotton fiber, shall exchange views with the Association
on such reviews before June 1 and December 1 of each year and
shall make any adjustment in such prices as are so shown to be
necessary so that they: (i) bear a reasonable relation to world
market prices; (ii) offer an adequate incentive to farmers; and
(iii) promote the sound financial operation of Coton Zaire."
Article 14. Section 5.01 of the 1976 Credit Agreement is
hereby amended to read as follows: "For the purposes of Section
6.02 of the General Conditions, the following additional events
are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Coton Zaire shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) Ordonnance No. 79-280 or any other legislation or
regulation of the Borrower governing the organization or opera-
tions of Coton Zaire shall have been amended, abrogated, supple-
mented or waived in a manner which may have an adverse effect on
the carrying out of the Project or on the operations or financial
condition of Coton Zaire or the efficiency of its management;
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to benefit in whole or in
part, from the technical assistance made available
for the Project by the Government of Belgium shall
have been suspended or terminated; and
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension or termination is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations towards the Government
of Belgium; and
(B) adequate technical assistance or funds there-
for for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and
,conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement."
Article 15. Section 7.01 (b) of the 1976 Credit Agreement
is hereby amended to read as follows: "Coton Zaire is hereby


﻿-6-
irrevocably designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions."
Article 16. The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to the 1976 Credit Agreement and the provisions of para-
graph 4 of such Schedule are amended to read as shown in Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
Article 17. Schedule 2 to the 1976 Credit Agreement is
amended to read as shown in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article 18. Sections 1.02 (b), 1.02 (c), 3.02, 3.09 and 3.10
of the 1976 Credit Agreement cease to have force and effect.
Article 19. Except as expressly amended, supplemented
or repealed by this Agreement, all the provisions of the 1976
Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect, and the pro-
visions of this Agreement are deemed fully incorporated therein
as provided in the General Conditions.
Article 20. This Agreement shall not become effective
until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been entered into by the Borrower and Coton Zaire.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RegionaBVice President
Eastern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and                 2,400,000          100% of for-
vehicle mainte-                                eign expendi-
nance equipment                                tures and 75%
for Parts A, B,                                of local ex-
C and D of the                                 penditures
Project
(2) Civil Works:
(a) housing and               200,000          40%
office accom-
modation un-
der Part D of
the Project
and construc-
tion under
Part F of the
Project
(b) grading, reha-          1,100,000          40%
bilitation
and mainte-
nance of roads
under Part B
of the Proj-
ect
(c) construction              500,000         70%
or repair of
Lua River and
other permanent
bridges
(d) reconstruction            400,000         70%
of other bridges
and of approaches
to bridges


﻿-8-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated      , % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(3) Agricultural demon-          1,900,000         100% of foreign
stration materials,                           expenditures
insecticides and                              and 75% of lo-
dusters under Parts                           cal expendi-
C and E of the Proj-                          tures
ect; and farming tools
and implements under
Parts A and C of the
Project
(4) Equipment under                300,000         100% of foreign
Part F of the                                 expenditures
Project; and equip-
ment and spare parts
for ginneries under
Part G of the
Project
(5) Operating costs for             50,000         60%
vehicles under
Parts A, C and D*of
the Project
(6) Consultants' ser-              400,000        .100% of foreign
vices under Part H                            expenditures
of the Project                                and 90% of lo-
cal expendi-
tures
(7) Unallocated                    750,000
TOTAL        8,000,000


﻿-9-
4.   "Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
(a) for expenditures prior to the date of the 1976 Credit
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $350,000, may be made in respect of
Category (4) for Part H of the Project, on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after March 1,
1976;
(b) for Part E of the Project until the Association shall
have approved the Coton Zaire plan for the distribution to farmers
of dusters and insecticides; or
(c) for works included in Part B of the Project until
the convention referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement has
been entered into by Coton Zaire and the Office des Routes."


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is designed to increase and encourage
cotton production in the Project Area, consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   The administrative and financial reorganization of
the cotton-buying system and the strengthening of the
physical facilities required therefor, including the
procurement of trucks for the transport of cotton and
of vehicle-maintenance equipment, the repair and roofing
of buying centers, the establishment of maintenance
facilities and the training of mechanics, the renova-
tion of the mechanical workshops at Gemena and Businga
and the establishment of service stations at ginneries
distant from Gemena.
Part B:   The rehabilitation, grading or maintenance of about
2,500 km of secondary and rural roads, the construction
of one or two bridges over the Lua River to ensure a
permanent link between the northern and western parts of
the Project Area as determined by a technical study, and
the repair or reconstruction of other bridges and of the
approaches to such bridges.
Part 0:   The improvement of agricultural extension services,
including the training of staff and the procurement
of demonstration and training materials, the procure-
ment of bicycles for extension agents, the expansion
of the program of on-farm trials, the procurement
and distribution to farmers of improved cotton seed and
the procurement and resale to farmers at cost of farming
tools and implements.
Part D:   The construction of housing in the Project Area and
the procurement of vehicles for the staff of Coton
Zaire recruited for the Project.
Part E:   The development of an insect-control program, including
a system for distribution of inputs therefor to farmers
and the procurement of insecticides and dusters for
the purpose.


﻿- 11 -
Part F:   The rehabilitation of the sub-station at Boketa of
the National Institute of Agricultural Studies and
Research, including the procurement of equipment, and
its use for seed multiplication and the development of
farming methods.
Part G:  The rehabilitation of existing ginneries, including
the procurement of equipment and spare parts.
Part H:   The carrying out of studies, including an evaluation
of the Project, necessary for further projects in
the cotton sector under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


