 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14879

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 11/10/2015

               Country: Lao People's Democratic Republic
             Project ID: P105331                                                   Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Gms Power Trade         Project Costs (US$M):                          16.81               11.71
                         (laos) Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      15.00                  9.80
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining          Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 06/05/2007
                                                                Closing Date:              12/31/2013        02/28/2015
          Sector(s):       Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (86%); Hydropower (14%)
          Theme(s):        Regional integration (29%); Infrastructure services for private sector development (29%);
                           Climate change (14%); Rural services and infrastructure (14%); Export development and
                           competitiveness (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Peter Nigel Freeman    Christopher David          IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                       Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement for Lao People's Democratic Republic
(PDR), Schedule 1, page 5) Greater Mekong Sub region Power Trade Project (GMS- PT) was:

"To enhance power trade within the Sub-Region with a view to bringing reliable electricity to selected provinces in Lao
PDR, and creating the conditions for eventual interconnection of Lao PDR with other countries of the region".

The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement for Cambodia GMS Power Trade Project
(GMS PTP) was:

"To enhance power trade within the Greater Mekong Sub-region (GMS) with a view to also bringing affordable grid-
based electricity to selected provinces in Cambodia through import of power from the Lao PDR and the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam".

The project development objectives as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 4) for the GMS Power
Trade Projects (PTR) for Lao PDR and Cambodia were:

"To enhance regional power trade within the GMS with a view to: (i) bringing affordable grid based electricity to
selected provinces in Cambodia through import of power from Lao PDR and Vietnam: and (ii) bringing reliable
electricity to the Saravan Province in Lao PDR, while creating the conditions for eventual inter connections of Lao
PDR with other countries of the region."

This review will utilize the PDO as stated in the Financing Agreements.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 11/14/2013

c. Components:

This regional project, entailing cross-border transmission lines between Lao PDR and Cambodia, was part of the
Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) regional program. The GMS program aimed at enhancing regional cooperation in
the power sector in the subregion, which included in addition to Lao PDR and Cambodia, Myanmar, Thailand,
Vietnam and China (Yunnan Provinces).

Components: (PAD, pages 41-45).

Component A: Transmission line linking Lao PDR to Cambodia .(estimated cost at appraisal US$2.36 million,
appraisal estimate following project restructuring US$0.00 million, actual cost at completion US$0.00 million). This
component aimed at developing a cross border transmission line linking Ban Hat (in Lao PDR) to Stung Treng (in
Cambodia), for facilitating the import of lower cost electricity from Lao PDR, and thereby displacing electricity from
higher cost diesel fueled generation sources in Cambodia. Activities included construction of a 115 kV double circuit
predominantly pole mounted transmission line linking the two countries.

Component B. Transmission System : Xeset Substation to Saravan : (estimated cost at appraisal US$3,72 million,
appraisal estimate following project restructuring US$4.56 million, actual cost at completion US$4.73 million). This
component aimed at providing a Transmission system that would eventually interconnect Thailand, Laos and
Cambodia. Activities included, construction of a 115 kV double circuit transmission line and Xeset 1-sub station at the
Saravan area of Lao PDR.

Component C: Activities aimed at implementation of components A and B : (estimated cost at appraisal US$0.50
million, appraisal estimate following project restructuring US$0.79 million, actual cost at completion US$0.55 million).
This component planned to support the institutional strengthening of Electricite du Laos (EdL) and technical
assistance to EdL for mitigating the social and environmental impacts and financing the purchase of equipment.

Component D: National/Regional Load Dispatch Center (LDC)) (estimated cost at appraisal US$6.06 million,
appraisal estimate following project restructuring US$0.64 million, actual cost at closure US$0.50 million). This
component provided technical assistance support for designing, implementing and establishing a LDC, a Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system and establishing communication facilities.

Component E: The Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydropower Project : (estimated cost at appraisal US$1.70 million,
appraisal estimate following project restructuring US$1.64 million, actual cost at completion US$1.64 million). This
component aimed at undertaking a feasibility study of the proposed Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydro-Power Project.

Component F: Technical Assistance for Collector Substation System : (estimated cost at appraisal US$0.40 million,
appraisal estimate after project restructuring US$0.00 million, actual cost at completion US$0.00 million). This
component aimed at carrying out studies for examining the technical feasibility and economic and financial viability of
collector substations, intended for drawing power from clusters of hydropower generating systems.

Component G: Technical assistance for updating tariff study : (estimated cost at appraisal US$0.25 million, appraisal
estimate following project restructuring US$0.29 million, actual cost at completion US$0.20 million). This component
aimed at providing an update of the current tariff study in general and examining the impact of export/import tariffs on
Electricite du Laos (EdL)'s performance in particular.

The following changes were made to the scope of the project following the project restructuring on 11/14/2013 .

    Component A activity (Construction of cross border transmission line linking Cambodia with Lao PDR) was
     dropped following the cancellation of the loan to Cambodia (discussed in section 2d).
    The scope of component D activities was reduced to cover only the technical assistance activities that were
     required for designing and implementing LDC.
    A component was added. Expansion of Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations .(estimated cost at appraisal
     US$0.00 million, appraisal estimate following project restructuring US$2.27 million, actual cost at completion
     US$2.16 million). This component aimed at extending the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations in Attepeu and
     Champsak provinces for facilitating the collection of power from the generation power plants in the area and
     despatching to Bank Na Substation for further power dispatch, including to the neighboring countries of Thailand
     and Cambodia. Activities included, expanding the existing substation building for accommodating the expansion
    of the substation, replacing inadequately sized bars with bars of current utility substation standards, installing an
    additional 115/22 kV power transformer for increasing service reliability to the southern region of Lao PDR and to
    neighboring countries and constructing additional outgoing circuits for increasing the power evacuation capacity
    of new load centers.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: At appraisal, the estimated cost was US$16.81 million. Appraisal estimate following the project
restructuring was US$14.00 million. The actual cost at completion was US$11.71 million. The actual cost was lower
than appraised due to a combination of factors including, cancellation of the loan to Cambodia, addition of a new
component activity and reduced scope of component D activities, following the project restructuring on 11/14/2013.
Following the project restructuring, component A activity was cancelled. The ICR (page 8) notes that the activity
associated with the construction of the Lao PDR -- Cambodia transmission line had been on hold between 2007 and
2009 due to procurement delays in Cambodia. Although the activity resumed in 2010, Cambodia requested for
extension of the project closing date. The request was not granted in view of the country program conditions which
had halted Bank's engagement with Cambodia. The ICR (page 5) notes that no funds had yet been spent for this
component till then, and at Lao PDR's request, the unused grant proceeds were used for financing an additional
project component (discussed above). Besides these changes, at restructuring new monitoring indicators were added
and the project closing date was extended by 14 months from December 31, 2013 to February 28, 2015. This
extension was intended for completing the ongoing activities associated with the added activity.

Project Financing: The original approved IDA grant for the activity was US$15.00 million. Revised estimate following
the project restructuring was US$10.20 million. The actual IDA grant at closure was US$9.80 million.
There was parallel financing for other complementary energy sector activities from the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), the Export-Import Bank of China and the GMS countries themselves through the Regional Power Trade
Coordinating Committee (RPTCC).

Borrower's Contribution: The Borrower's contribution was estimated at US$1.81 million at appraisal. Following
restructuring of the project, their expected contribution was revised to US$3.80 million. Their contribution at closure
was US$1.90 million.

Dates: The project closed as per the revised schedule on 02/28/2015.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Original Scope: Substantial

Regional and Country Context:

Despite possessing large endowments of energy resources, the GMS countries per capita consumption of electricity
exhibited wide variations - from about only 63 kWh (Kilowatt-hours) per year in Cambodia to about 1,900 kWh per
year in Thailand. This was partly due to the national electricity demands that did not match with their capacity to
produce electricity resources. For example, while Lao PDR's electricity supply from their estimated potential exceeded
their domestic demand, and hence Lao PDR could be a major supplier to the regional electricity market. Cambodia's
demand for power on the other hand exceeded their generation capacity and cost of electricity in Cambodia was one
of the highest in the region. To address the regional demand for power and concerns of energy security, the GMS
countries decided to enhance regional cooperation in the power sector, strengthen regional transmission networks,
promote cross-border energy investments and develop a regional electricity market in a phased manner, through a
GMS Forum established in the early 1990's with the support of the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The GMS
countries signed an Intergovernmental Agreement on Regional Power Trade between 2004 and 2005 for furthering
regional cooperation in the power sector. While a region wide competitive electricity market was still recognized as a
long-term objective, there was regional consensus that it was important to develop appropriate frameworks for
strengthening regional power trade through transmission of regional inter-connections.

Government and Bank Strategy:

The project development objective and original scope was relevant to the Government and Bank strategy for Lao PDR
at the appraisal stage. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Lao PDR was also consistent with the
government's National Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy. Objective one of the CAS identified the need for
supporting "sustained growth through improved management of the key growth drivers". The CAS further identified
regional integration and private sector development, rural development and natural resources management as key
drivers of growth. However, the construction of the cross-border transmission line linking Cambodia and Laos PDR
was cancelled, which resulted in a significant reduction in project scope.

Revised scope: Substantial.

The revised project scope, although a revision in expectations, remained relevant to the country and Bank strategy for
Lao PDR. The government's Long Term Power Development Plan (PDP) for the 2014-2015 period identified several
cross border transmission lines with neighboring countries, The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Lao
PDR for the 2012-2016 period focused on three themes: (a) competitiveness and connectivity. (b) sustainable natural
resource management including through management of hydropower resources. (c) inclusive development which
included cross cutting themes of public sector management. Despite the setback with Cambodia the restructured
project anticipated eventual cross-border inter-connections.

Moreover, the project development objective was relevant for the Bank's regional strategy for the GMS Subregion.
The Bank's strategy articulated in the April 2007,"Strategy Note on Economic Cooperation across the Mekong
Region" had identified the need for developing frameworks for joint action and supporting the development of power
trade. The strategy also identified the need for proposing and implementing regional level activities that were
complementary and reinforced country level activities and programs.


b. Relevance of Design:

Original Design: Substantial:

The statement of the original project development objectives is clear and there are valid causal links between most of
the activities planned under each component, the outputs they were intended to produce and the intended outcomes
were in principle, measurable.

The outputs associated with component A, B and D activities (construction of the transmission line to the Saravan
area of Lao PDR and to neighboring countries like Cambodia and constructing Load despatch center) in conjunction
with the outputs of Component C activities aimed at the institutional strengthening of EdL, and the technical
assistance activities can be expected to contribute to the project development outcome of bringing reliable electricity
to selected provinces in Lao PDR and creating the conditions for eventual inter connections with neighboring regional
countries. And the combination of these activities can be expected to contribute to the higher level objective of
contributing to the Bank's regional economic cooperation strategy for the GMS region (PAD, page 4). Although the
project had to drop a sub-component and add another smaller one, this could not have been foreseen at appraisal.

Revised Design: Substantial.

The statement of the revised project development objective is clear and there are valid causal links between most of
the activities planned under component and the outputs they were intended to produce, and the intended outcomes
were measurable. The added activity, extending the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations in Attepeu and Champsak
provinces can be expected to facilitate collecting power from the generation power plants in the area for further
despatch, including eventually to the neighboring countries of Thailand and Cambodia.

There were, however, minor weakness in the results framework, (discussed in section 10a).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The project was restructured relatively late on 11/14/2013, when 74% of the grant had already been disbursed. The
reason for the restructuring was the non participation of Cambodia. Since the restructuring significantly changed the
scope of the project, IEG and Bank norms require a split rating of performance, efficacy is assessed before
restructuring when 74% was disbursed and after restructuring when 26% was disbursed.

The project development objective was: "to enhance power trade within the Sub-Region with a view to bringing
reliable electricity to selected provinces in Lao PDR, and creating the conditions for eventual interconnection of Lao
PDR with other counties of the region."
Before Restructuring : Modest (based on 74% disbursements)

Outputs;

    The development of a cross border transmission line linking Lao PDR (Ban Hat) and Cambodia (Stung Treng)
     had to be dropped in view of Cambodia's withdrawal from the regional power trade project (36% of original
     project cost).
    The double circuit transmission line and Xeset 1 sub station at the Saravan area of Lao PDR was completed as
     targeted.
    The technical assistance activities for project implementation support was completed as targeted,
    The feasibility study of Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydropower project was completed as targeted.
     The updated tariff study for financing of hydropower power projects was completed as targeted.
    The construction of the Local Dispatch Center to increase the capacity of EdL was not completed as intended.
    The technical assistance for Collector Substation System was not completed as intended.

Outcomes:

    With the dropping of the activity associated with development of a cross border transmission line linking Lao PDR
     and Cambodia, there were no increased exports by Lao PDR to Vietnam as per their Power Purchase
     Agreement.

After Restructuring : Substantial (based on 26% of disbursements)

Outputs:

    The Saphaothong and Ban Na Substantions were extended to provide secure and reliable supplies to the
     Southern region of Lao PDR as per the revised target.

Outcomes:

    With the completion of the transmission line from the Xeset Substation to the Saravan area, 92 GigaWatt hours
     (GWh) of energy demand in the Saravan area of Lao PDR was met as compared to the target of 65 GWh. The
     ICR reports that the higher load demand was mainly caused by a cement factory set up in Saravan province after
     the transmission line was built.
    The capacity of Saphathong and Ban Na sub stations increased from 80 to 160 as per the revised target.


5. Efficiency:

Before restructuring : Substantial.

At appraisal, an economic and a financial analysis was conducted. The main benefit identified incremental electricity
exports as the main economic benefit in the revenue stream. For two project components (development of a cross
border transmission line linking Lao PDR and Cambodia and development of the transmission link to Saravan). The
ex ante economic rate of return (EIRR) ranged between 18.4% and 45.6% However, the cross border transmission
link did not take place.

After restructuring : Substantial.

After restructuring, the activity associated with development of a cross border transmission line linking Lao PDR with
Cambodia was dropped and a new component (expansion of Saphaothong and Ban Na Substation was added. After
restructuring, an economic analysis was conducted for the development of the transmission link to Saravan and the
newly added activity. These components accounted for approximately 49% of the project cost. The net benefits in the
case of the former component were to come from the increase in local demand met through the extension of the
system and increased revenue for EdL. In the case of the latter component, the net benefits were to come from the
increase in local demand met through the constructed transmission system and benefits associated with reduction of
Carbon dioxide emissions, as the incremental demand was met through power from hydropower sources.

The ex post economic rate of return (EIRR) for the two components were 49% and 46% as compared to the ex ante
EIRR of 34% and 46% respectively. The average ex post EIRR for the project as a whole was 47% as compared to
the ex ante EIRR of 46%.

A Financial Rate of Return (FIRR) was conducted for the construction of the transmission system at appraisal and at
closure. The ex post FIRR was 24% as compared to the ex ante FIRR of 6%. The ex post FIRR for the extension of
the transmission system was in the range of 61 to 79%. The ICR does not provide reasons but states that there was
no calculation of ex ante FIRR for the extension of the transmission system.

There were administrative and operational inefficiencies relating to underestimation of costs and there were time
overruns. The costs of constructing the Load Despatch Center was underestimated and this led to a reduction in the
scope of this activity financed by the Bank. At closure, 30% of the originally allocated funding from the Bank was
unspent, but this was reduced to 5% when the project scope was amended at restructuring; the project closed 14
months beyond schedule.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

       Appraisal                     Yes                                       47%                                     59%

       ICR estimate                  Yes                                       46%                                     49%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The relevance of the project development objective and design was rated as Substantial before and after
restructuring. Efficacy was rated as Modest before and Substantial after restructuring. Efficiency was rated as
Substantial before and after restructuring. The overall outcome rating was Moderately Satisfactory even though this
was a marginal call since 74% of disbursements had already occurred.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The risk to development outcome of bringing reliable electricity to the Saravan Province in Lao PDR is rated as
Negligible to Low in view of the completion of these activities and the significant number of EdL staff that were trained
in using the equipment in EdL. This would help to maintain the Lao PDR power grid system in a stable and reliable
condition. The risk to development outcome of "creating conditions for eventual inter connections of Lao PDR with
other countries" is rated as Substantial in view of the cancellation of the cross border transmission component.

      a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The preparation of the project benefitted from lessons learnt from prior Bank financed energy projects at the
regional level (South East Europe Project in December 2004, West Africa Power Pool Project (WAPP) in June
2005 and South Africa Power Market in October 2003. (PAD, page 5). One lesson adopted from the prior Bank
financed regional projects was the need for political consensus, and the Inter Governmental Agreement on
Regional Power Trade(IGA) formed in 2002 was identified as a political instrument that could provide an
authorizing environment for various regional institutions and a platform to build consensus on market design.
(ICR, page 7). Key project risks were identified at appraisal and various risk mitigation measures were adopted
and the overall project risk was rated as Substantial (PAD, page 10) and the withdrawal of Cambodia from the
project in 2011 could not be reasonably foreseen. The financial and procurement arrangements were deemed to
be satisfactory at the appraisal stage and safeguard requirements were complied with at appraisal (discussed in
section 11).

      There were however important weakness in M&E design. While some indicators were not used in view of the
       cancellation of the loan to Cambodia, some of the outcome indicators were inappropriate (discussed in
       section 10).
       Risk mitigation measures did not include binding provisions that are critical to ensure firm commitments by
       electricity suppliers and buyers in the form of Power Purchase Agreements (PPA's).
.

      Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Satisfactory

    b. Quality of supervision:

In total, ten ISR's were filed over a period of seven years, implying on average less than two missions a years.
The task team leader clarified that missions were sparse in the early years of the project when negotiations were
in progress with the Cambodia government, but they were more frequent in the latter years after project
restructuring. The supervision team also played a key role in providing assistance on technical and fiduciary
issues. The supervision team also worked closely with the Government of Laos and EdL in adjusting the scope of
the project and the budget in the wake of the cancellation of the loan to Cambodia (ICR, page 20).

The four task team leaders during the life of the project contributed to the delay in restructuring the project. had
the project been restructured earlier far less disbursements would have taken place prior to presentation for
approval. There were also financial management issues, which had not been completely resolved at project
closure.


      Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

      Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


    9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

    a. Government Performance:

The Government's commitment to the project was demonstrated when in the wake of the cancellation of the loan
to Cambodia, the Government worked with the team to adjust the scope of the project.

The commitment of the Government of Lao PDR to its long term strategy of developing its hydropower potential
and exporting to the regional countries was demonstrated by its continuing dialogue with other GMS countries like
Singapore.

      Government Performance Rating                             Satisfactory

    b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Electicite du Lao (EdL) under the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) was the implementing agency. The
implementing agency identified alternative financing for the larger scope of the Load Despatch Center component
of the project. The implementing agency's performance for ensuring compliance with social and environmental
safeguards was adequate (discussed in Section 11).

There were financial management issues such as delays in the submission of Interim Financial Audits, in the wake
of the power sector restructuring in Lao PDR which led to the separation of the EdL Generation subsidiary from
the EdL parent company. All audit reports, with the exception of the audit report for 2011, was unqualified and
regarding the audit report of 2011, the auditors were unable to verify the accuracy and completeness of certain
entries. During the implementation phase, the project overcharged IDA on two contracts resulting in a total of
US$175,845 which was later refunded to the Bank. The monitoring indicator that was added after project
restructuring was output oriented and more appropriate outcome indicators would have helped in knowing the
extent to which the project contributed to the PDO..

.

      Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

      Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The four outcome indicators selected for the project at appraisal (increased export of power Lao PDR to Cambodia,
percent of demand met in select Cambodian town from imports from Lao PDR and Vietnam, increase in demand met
in the Saravan area of Lao and increased capacity of EdL through the use of load dispatch center) adequately
reflected the PDO. The first two outcome indicators were not used in view of the cancellation of the project to
Cambodia.


b. M&E Implementation:

During project restructuring a PDO indicator was added to measure the built capacity of the Saphathong and Ban Na
Substations. This indicator (installed capacity) was output oriented. More appropriate outcome indicators, such as "
increased demand met in the Saphaothong area" and "increased export from Lao PDR to neighboring countries
through the Ban Na Substation" would have helped in knowing the extent to which the project contributed to the PDO.
The number of qualified staff hired at LDC was an intermediate indicator, but only gave a partial picture of EdL's
progress in capacity development.

The ICR( page 9) reports that the quality of information supplied by EdL was deemed to be adequate as verified by
international consultants and field visits.

c. M&E Utilization:

The monitoring indicators were used to identify required actions to remedy delays and bottlenecks.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was classified as a Category B for Environmental Assessment purposes. In addition to Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), four safeguard policies were triggered: Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Physical Cultural
Resources (OP/BP $.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50).

Environmental and Social Safeguards : The PAD (page 17) notes that an Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared at the appraisal stage and disclosed to the public by EdL. The
ICR (page 10) notes that EdL's environment office consisted of staff who were experienced in safeguard
implementation of the project and were familiar with the Bank's procedures. The ICR (page 10) notes that there was
compliance with environmental issues, and there were no social safeguard issues during implementation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Arrangements : At the appraisal stage, the financial management of both Cambodia and Lao PDR was
deemed to be adequate (PAD, page 14). The ICR (page 11) notes that there was an issue of staffing at the EdL and
the Bank team provided refresher training to the staff during implementation. The ICR notes that there were delays
associated with submission of audit reports throughout project implementation and one audit report (for the period
ending December 31, 2011) was qualified. During project implementation, the project overcharged IDA on two
occasions, although these amounts were eventually recovered by the Bank from Lao PDR.

Procurement: At the appraisal stage, EdL was deemed to have adequate experience and capacity to handle
procurement issues (PAD, page 14). The ICR (page 11) reports that there were no major procurement issues and
there was compliance with World Bank Procurement guidelines.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR (page 21-23) draws the following main lessons from this project.

(1) Given that regional energy projects involve multiple countries and implementing agencies with different
operating conditions and environments, it is important to ensure the commitment and ownership of participating
countries through strong political consensus. Further, it is important to adapt to technological developments
through regular reviews and updating of implementation plans.

(2) Development of cross-border transmission lines, require firm commitment by electricity suppliers and buyers in
the form of binding provisions in Power Purchase Agreements (PPA's).

(3). While long term cross border transactions have taken place in GMS region, despite the absence of a regional
power exchange market, the bilateral transaction-by transaction approach may be feasible only when there are
limited cross border transactions within the region. As regional inter connections grow it may be useful to work for a
regional power exchange market in the context of a region wide network.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR presents a good description of the problems associated with regional projects while discussing the Cambodia
aspect of the project. It is concise and well written. The ICR could have provided more information on the monitoring
and evaluation aspects of the project and provided reasons as to why there was no ex ante calculation of the Financial
Rate of Return for the extension of the transmission system (the project component that was added after
restructuring). It is unclear from the text why government performance was rated as Moderately Satisfactory, because
no negative aspects are provided. The ICR incorrectly rates the "Risk to Development Outcome" as "Modest" in the
text rather than "Moderate". "Modest" is not in the ratings scale indicated in the OPCS Guidelines for ICR preparation.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
