                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                    Report No: ICR00003419



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H3000)



                                         ON A

                                         GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.7 MILLION
                       (US$10.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                    LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                         FOR A

          GREATER MEKONG SUBREGION POWER TRADE PROJECT

                                  August 27, 2015




Energy and Extractives Global Practice
East Asia and Pacific Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 4, 2015)

                      Currency Unit = Lao Kip (LAK)
                       LAK 1.00 = US$0.00012345
                          US$1.00 = LAK 8,100

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB       Asian Development Bank
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DEPP      Department of Energy and Power Planning
DOE       Department of Energy
EDC       Electricité du Cambodge
EdL       Electricité du Laos
EdL Gen   EdL Generation
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EO        Environment Office
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FM        Financial Management
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
GoL       Government of Lao PDR
GMS       Greater Mekong Subregion
GMS-PT    Greater Mekong Subregion Power Trade
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
IFR       Interim Financial Report
IGA       Intergovernmental Agreement on Regional Power Trade
IPP       Independent Power Producer
LDC       Load Dispatch Center
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MARR      Minimum Acceptable Rate of Return
MEM       Ministry of Energy and Mines
NPV       Net Present Value
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PDP       Power Development Plan
PPA     Power Purchase Agreement
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
RGC     Royal Government of Cambodia
RPTCC   Regional Power Trade Coordinating Committee
SCADA   Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
TA      Technical Assistance
WTP     Willingness to Pay




              Regional Vice President:    Axel van Trotsenburg
        Senior Global Practice Director   Anita M. George
                     Practice Manager:    Julia M. Fraser
                 Project Team Leader:     Rome Chavapricha
                    ICR Team Leader:      Rome Chavapricha
                          LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                         Greater Mekong Subregion Power Trade Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
A. Basic Information
                        Lao People's                                      GMS Power Trade
Country:                                        Project Name:
                        Democratic Republic                               (Laos) Project
Project ID:             P105331                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H3000
ICR Date:               08/27/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 LAO PDR
Original Total
                        XDR 9.90M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.30M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Electricite du Lao (EdL); Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/14/2004     Effectiveness:          12/12/2007          12/12/2007
Appraisal:            03/15/2007     Restructuring(s):                           11/14/2013
Approval:             06/05/2007     Mid-term Review:        06/04/2012          05/16/2013
                                     Closing:                12/31/2013          02/28/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Modest
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        Yes                                             None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Hydropower                                                            14                   14
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                          86                   86


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                        14                   14
Export development and competitiveness                                14                   14
Infrastructure services for private sector development                29                   29
Regional integration                                                  29                   29
Rural services and infrastructure                                     14                   14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country                    Ulrich Zachau/ Sally
                                                                Ian Porter
Director/Manager:          Burningham
Practice
                           Julia M. Fraser                      Junhui Wu
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Rome Chavapricha                     Mohinder Gulati
ICR Team Leader:           Rome Chavapricha
ICR Primary Author:        Masaki Takahashi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To enhance regional power trade within the Greater Mekong Sub-Region with a view to:
(i) bringing affordable grid-based electricity to selected provinces in Cambodia through
import of power from Lao PDR and Vietnam; and (ii) bringing reliable electricity to the
Saravan province in Lao PDR, while creating the conditions for eventual interconnections
of Lao PDR with other countries of the region.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                  Original                     Actual Value
                                                                                 Formally
                                                                   Target                       Achieved at
                                                                                  Revised
             Indicator                     Baseline Value       Values (from                    Completion
                                                                                  Target
                                                                  approval                       or Target
                                                                                  Values
                                                                 documents)                         Years
 Indicator 1:                           Increased demand met in Saravan area of Lao PDR (GWh)
 Value (quantitative or qualitative)              40                 65         No change             92
 Date achieved                               05/01/2007          12/31/2013          -          12/31/2013
                                        Target was exceeded. Higher load demand was mainly caused by a
 Comments (incl. % achievement)         cement factory set up in Saravan province after the transmission
                                        line was built
                                        Increased capacity of EdL to optimize its system operation and
 Indicator 2:
                                        power trade, through the use of load dispatch center (text)
                                                                  LDC will
                                                                   become                           LDC
 Value (quantitative or qualitative)            None                             Dropped
                                                                operational in                  Operational
                                                                    2013
 Date achieved                               06/30/2007          12/31/2013     11/14/2013      08/30/2013
                                        Indicator was dropped. LDC was constructed on schedule under
 Comments (incl. % achievement)
                                        alternative financing leveraged by using World Bank TA.
 Indicator 3:                           Increased capacity of Saphaothong and Ban Na substations (MVA)
 Value (quantitative or qualitative)              80                  -             160              160
 Date achieved                               03/31/2014               -         02/28/2015      02/10/2015
                                        New indicator added at restructuring. Target was achieved 100
 Comments (incl. % achievement)
                                        percent on time.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                               Original                        Actual Value
                                                                                Formally
                                                                Target                          Achieved at
                                                                                 Revised
            Indicator                    Baseline Value      Values (from                       Completion
                                                                                 Target
                                                               approval                          or Target
                                                                                 Values
                                                              documents)                           Years
                                       Interconnection transmission line constructed to specifications within
 Indicator 1:                          time and budget (% of poles/towers erected and km of lines
                                       mounted)
 Value (quantitative or
                                                0                  100          Dropped              -
 qualitative)
Date achieved                06/30/2007          12/31/2013       11/14/2013        -
Comments (incl. %        Indicator was dropped following Cambodia’s withdrawal from the
achievement)             project
                         Two circuit breakers at Saphaothong and Ban Na substations and
Indicator 2:
                         transmission transformer are installed (number)
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                    -                2                2
qualitative)
Date achieved                12/31/2013               -          02/28/2015      02/10/2015
Comments (incl. %        New indicator added at restructuring. Target was achieved.
achievement)             Construction work was completed and the contract was closed
                         Xeset-Saravan Transmission line constructed to specifications within
Indicator 3:
                         time and budget (%)
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                  100           No change           100
qualitative)
Date achieved                06/30/2007         12/31/2013           -          06/01/2011
Comments (incl. %        Target was achieved. The transmission line was completed in June
achievement)             2011 and has been operational since August 2011.
Indicator 4:             115 kV Transmission lines constructed under the project (km)
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                        -                24.3        24.3
qualitative)
Date achieved                06/30/2007                    -          11/14/2013 06/01/2011
                         New indicator added at restructuring. Target was achieved. The
Comments (incl. %        transmission line was completed in June 2011 and has been
achievement)             operational since August 2011 (The core standard indicator was not
                         established at the start)
Indicator 5:             Load dispatch Center in EdL constructed and operational (text)
Value (quantitative or                             LDC will become                   LDC
                                 None             operational in 2013
                                                                       Dropped
qualitative)                                                                      operational
Date achieved                06/30/2007              12/31/2013       11/14/2013 08/30/2013
Comments (incl. %        Indicator was dropped. LDC constructed under alternative financing
achievement)             leveraged using World Bank TA.LDC fully operational?
                         Quantitative indicators for capacity development (number of
Indicator 6:
                         qualified staff hired)
Value (quantitative or
                                  5                        30         No change          40
qualitative)
Date achieved                06/30/2007           12/31/2013             -        12/31/2014
                         Target was achieved. Following the completion of LDC (operational
Comments (incl. %
                         since 08/2013), EDL has recruited 40 engineers to operate the new
achievement)
                         dispatch system.
Indicator 7:             Scoping and Design of LDC completed (number)
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                        -                 1               1
qualitative)
Date achieved                06/30/2007                  -           11/14/2013 03/01/2012
Comments (incl. %        New indicator added at restructuring. Target was achieved. Work on
achievement)             scoping and design study of load dispatch center was completed
                         Quantitative indicators for operation performance: (i) voltage and
Indicator 8:             frequency control; (ii) system protection and reliability; (iii)
                         technical information on exchange volume and dispatch activity.
                                                     LCD will
Value (quantitative or                                become                              LDC
                                   0                                  Dropped
qualitative)                                       operational in                     operational
                                                       2013
Date achieved                06/30/2007             12/31/2013       11/14/2013 08/30/2013
Comments (incl. %        Indicator was dropped. LDC was constructed under alternative
achievement)             financing leveraged by using World Bank TA.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1   11/07/2007        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2   06/19/2009        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              1.50
  3   06/29/2010        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              3.26
  4   04/13/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              6.12
                         Moderately
  5   04/09/2012                              Moderately Satisfactory             7.55
                       Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  6   12/26/2012                                                                  7.66
                       Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately
  7   10/23/2013                              Moderately Satisfactory             7.69
                       Unsatisfactory
  8   06/14/2014    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             7.94
  9   12/05/2014    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             9.51
 10   03/04/2015    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             9.71


H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Level II Restructuring. The
                                                     changes included: (i)
                                                     modifications to the description
                                                     of Project components to reflect
                                                     the cancellation of certain
                                                     activities and the addition of
 11/14/2013               MU     MS           7.69   others; (ii) reallocation of funds;
                                                     (iii) partial cancellation of Grant
                                                     funds; (iv) extension of the
                                                     Grant closing date; (v) revisions
                                                     to the Results Framework; and
                                                     (vi) deletion of certain financial
                                                     covenants.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of appraisal, the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), comprising
Cambodia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam, and China
(Yunnan Provinces), covered over 2.3 million km2 and had a total population of 260 million.
Across the GMS, domestic resources for electricity generation did not match the fast
growing demand on the country basis, thereby necessitating regional power trade. To meet
their rapidly growing demand and their concerns on energy security, the GMS countries
decided to enhance regional cooperation in the power sector, strengthen regional
transmission networks, promote cross-border investments in power infrastructure, and
develop a regional electricity market in a phased manner.

2.       Lao PDR is a land-linked country which, at the time of appraisal, had a population
of less than 6 million and gross national income per capita of US$440 per year. Lao PDR’s
major sources of growth were its rich hydropower and mineral resources. Through a
strategy of developing its hydropower potential for export to the neighbors, it had, apart
from earning valuable foreign exchange, been able to develop its own electricity network
and increase access rates to nearly 45 percent. Given its substantial hydropower resources,
it had the potential to grow into a major supplier to the regional electricity market.

3.      Power trade in the GMS had the potential for providing significant economic and
environmental benefits, with a direct impact on poverty alleviation in the region. Energy
security in the region could also be improved by reducing dependence on fossil fuels for
power generation and displacing it with environmentally sustainable renewable resources,
primarily hydropower. Furthermore, this could help lower electricity prices and enhance
economic growth through better allocation of investments and optimal use of natural
resources on a regional basis.

4.      Recognizing the significance of power trade, a GMS Forum was established in the
early 1990s, followed by the signing of several memoranda of understanding for power
trade. The GMS countries signed an Intergovernmental Agreement on Regional Power
Trade (IGA) in 2002, which was ratified by their respective law-making bodies between
2004 and 2005. While a competitive electricity market was a long-term objective, there
was consensus among the countries that it was important to develop an appropriate
framework for strengthening trade and to start increasing the regional transmission
interconnections and generation capacity. An institutional framework was set up to
implement the GMS objectives and comprised the Regional Power Trade Coordinating
Committee (RPTCC) focused on coordinated development of regional electricity market.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

5.      Momentum for regional economic integration and, in particular, integration of
electricity systems among the countries in the GMS had been growing steadily. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB), World Bank, and other development partners had been actively
fostering a coordinated approach toward developing the GMS countries’ resources. The



                                            1
World Bank’s strategy was articulated in the ‘Strategy Note on Economic Cooperation
across the Mekong Sub-Region’ dated April 2007. It provided support to develop
frameworks for joint action, including implementation through analytical work, technical
assistance (TA), capacity building, dialogue, and investment. It also helped ensure that the
plans proposed and implemented at the regional level complemented and reinforced
country-level activities and programs. The World Bank’s GMS regional support strategy
included continued support to the development of power trade and enhancing collaboration
on water resource management.

6.      It was also expected that the financial support for priority regional transmission
interconnections would help the World Bank’s clients in ‘learning by doing’ to develop
modalities for designing, financing, and constructing cross-border transmission links as
well as for strengthening electricity trade between electricity systems and power utilities,
which is essential for development of regional electricity market.

7.      Due to the regional nature of the power trade program and cross-border
interconnections, this was developed as a regional project 1 . The Cambodia part was
cancelled in 2011 for which a Note on Cancelled Operation2 was completed in June 2012.
This Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) assesses the project only from
the perspective of Lao PDR.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.      As stated in the PAD, the project objective3 (for both Lao PDR and Cambodia GMS
Power Trade parts) was to enhance regional power trade within the GMS with a view to
also (i) bringing affordable grid-based electricity to selected provinces in Cambodia
through import of power from Lao PDR and Vietnam and (ii) bringing reliable electricity
to the Saravan Province in Lao PDR while creating the conditions for eventual
interconnections of Lao PDR with other countries of the region.

9.     Key indicators for the achievement of the above objectives are: (i) increase in
import of power by Cambodia from Lao PDR and Vietnam as per their Power Purchase
Agreements; (ii) proportion of demand met through power imports and reduction in cost
of supply in select provinces of Cambodia; and (iii) timely completion of a modern load




1
 Separate Financing Agreements were negotiated with Lao PDR and Cambodia (H3000 for Lao PDR and
H3010 for Cambodia, respectively).

2
    Note of Cancelled Operation number NCO00002335 dated June 20, 2012.

3
  The Financing Agreement stated the PDO as “to enhance power trade within the Sub-Region with a view
to bringing electricity to selected provinces in Lao PDR and creating the conditions for eventual
interconnection of Lao PDR with other countries in the region.” This slightly different formulation is the one
used for the ICR.



                                                      2
dispatch center (LDC) in Lao PDR, with increased capacity of EdL to optimize its system
operation through acquisition of adequate skills by its staff to undertake load dispatch.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/justification

10.     The PDO was not revised. However, as a result of country program conditions in
2011 in Cambodia, the Cambodia part was cancelled. There were also a series of high-level
dialogues with the government to make optimal use of the remaining funds of the
interconnection component, and also securing financing of the LDC from the Export-
Import Bank of China. Reflecting this, a project restructuring was approved in 2013
revising key indicators, and reallocating funds to support a new project component within
Lao PDR (see Section 1.6).

11.     As part of the restructuring, the outcome and intermediate level indicators were
revised to reflect the revised scope of the project. A new PDO level indicator – “increased
capacity of Saphaothong and Ban Na substations” – was added to evaluate a new
Component L-1-b for upgrading and expanding the Saphaothong and Ban Na substations.
The PDO level indicator “increased capacity of EdL to optimize its system operation and
power trade, through the use of load dispatch center” was dropped as the Load Dispatching
Centre (LDC) was financed through alternative funding from the Export-Import Bank of
China. The intermediate result on the LDC was modified to incorporate only the TA
financed under the project.

12.     In addition, the intermediate result for the development of a cross-border
transmission line between Lao PDR (Ban Hat) and Cambodia (Stung Treng) was dropped.
A new intermediate result indicator was added to reflect the expansion of these two
substations through installation of new circuit breakers and transformers. The intermediate
result indicator for the Xeset-Saravan transmission line was revised to indicate the
percentage of works completed and a second indicator was added to capture the core sector
indicator "length of transmission line built". All changes are shown in Section F of the
Datasheet.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.      Successful implementation of the project was expected to benefit (a) EdL, the
Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), and the GoL by providing export earnings from
sales of power generated in Lao PDR to neighboring countries in the GMS; (b) Electricité
du Cambodge (EDC) and ratepayers in select provinces of Cambodia by replacing
expensive diesel power generation with imports from Lao PDR and thereby reducing the
cost of supply; (c) households and businesses in Saravan Province by providing reliable
electricity supply through a new high-voltage transmission line to meet increasing demand;
(d) households and businesses in Attapeu and Champasak Provinces by upgrading
substations to meet the projected increase demand; and (e) EdL by developing the national
Load Dispatch Center (LDC) to improve operational efficiency of the Lao power grid and
facilitate its integration with other GMS power systems. However, post restructuring, the
project will no longer consider (b) as one of the primary beneficiaries.


                                            3
1.5 Original Components

GMS-PT (Laos) Project

14.   The project had seven components (L-1 to L-7), including three investment
components (L-1, L-2, and L-4) and four supporting activities and TA components.

15.    Component L-1: 115 kV Transmission System: Ban Hat Substation to the Lao
PDR Border (US$2.7 million, 16 percent of total project cost). This component
encompassed development of a cross-border 115 kV transmission line linking Lao PDR
(Ban Hat) and Cambodia (Stung Treng) to facilitate import of lower-cost electricity from
Lao PDR to displace higher-cost, diesel-fueled generation sources in Cambodia. The
component involved construction of (a) a 115 kV double-circuit, 25 km long,
predominantly lattice steel tower-mounted transmission line, having a firm capacity of
about 90 MVA, from Ban Hat Substation to the Lao PDR border (at Veun Kham) and (b)
two 115 kV switching bays at Ban Hat Substation.

16.     Component L-2: 115 kV Transmission System: Xeset Substation to Saravan
(US$4.4 million, 26 percent of total project cost). This component consisted of
development of the Xeset 1 to Saravan segment of the proposed 115 kV transmission link
that would eventually interconnect electricity grids from (western) Thailand through
(southern) Lao PDR to (northern) Cambodia and enable supply of the rapidly growing
demand of the province of Saravan, through least-cost power supply. This component
involved construction of (a) a 115 kV double-circuit 25 km long, lattice steel tower-
mounted line of about 90 MVA firm capacity; (b) a 115/22 kV, 2x20 MVA substation at
Saravan, inclusive of 22 kV switching bays; and (c) two 115 kV switching bays at the
existing Xeset Substation.

17.    Component L-3: Activities to Facilitate Implementation of L-1 and L-2
(US$0.75 million, around 4 percent of total project cost). This TA component was to
support EdL through the following subcomponents:

      L-3.1: Consulting Services: Project Design and Management for Components L-1
       and L-2 (US$0.25 million)

      L-3.2: Mitigation of Social and Environmental Impacts for Components L-1 and
       L-2 (US$0.25 million)

      L-3.3: Vehicles, Computers, and Office Equipment (US$0.25 million)

18.     Component L-4: Load Dispatch Center (US$6.6 million, around 39 percent of
total project cost). This component provided for (i) consulting study for detailed
feasibility and design of the Load Dispatch System and subsequently, (ii) based on
priorities identified and co-financing available, staged construction of the LDC as
appropriate, including the associated buildings, telecommunication facilities and
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system.




                                           4
19.     Component L-5: Feasibility Study of Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydropower
Project (US$1.7 million, around 10 percent of total project cost). This component was
intended to advance the preparation of a 65 MW, 300 GWh per year hydropower project
to feasibility stage.

20.    Component: L-6: TA for Collector Substation System (US$0.4 million, around
2.4 percent of total project cost). This TA component was expected to support the
preparation of the study of technical, legal, commercial, ownership, financing, and pricing
issues associated with shared facilities for evacuation of power from a cluster of
hydropower projects.

21.      Component: L-7: TA for Updating Tariff Study (US$0.25 million, around 1.4
percent of total project cost). This TA component was expected to assist EdL in updating
a tariff study, which was over two years old at the time of appraisal, with emphasis on
assessing the impact of export-import tariffs in a rapidly changing investment scenario.
The TA would help EdL in developing suitable financial models for undertaking such
studies on its own in future

1.6 Revised Components

22.    As part of the project restructuring in November 2013, the project components were
modified to reflect the cancellation of certain activities and the addition of others. The
changes, summarized in Table 1 below, reflected (i) the withdrawal of Cambodia from the
regional GMS PT project; (ii) the availability of alternative funding for the construction of
the Lao LDC; and (iii) TA to assess collector substations as alternatives to dedicated
transmission lines.
                                    Table 1. Project Components
                      Original                                                 Revised
 L-1: Cross-border Transmission System: Ban Hat
                                                           L-1: Cancelled
 Substation to the Lao PDR Border
                                                           L-1-b (New component added at restructuring):
 –                                                         Expansion of Saphaothong and Ban Na
                                                           Substations
 L-2: 115 kV Transmission System: Xeset
                                                           L-2: No change
 Substation to Saravan
                                                           L-3: Following cancellation of Component L-1,
 L-3: Activities to Facilitate Implementation of L-1       activities for this component include design and
 and L-2                                                   supervision for Component L-2 and the proposed
                                                           new Component L-1-b.
                                                           L-4: Reduced to cover only TA activities required
 L-4: Load Dispatch Center
                                                           for design and implementation of LDC.
 L-5: Feasibility Study of Houay Lamphan Gnai
                                                           L-5: No Change
 Hydropower Project
 L-6: TA for Collector Substation System                   L-6: Cancelled
 L-7: TA for Updating Tariff Study                         L-7: No Change


23.   Cancelled Component L-1: Cross border transmission system from Ban Hat
Substation to the Lao PDR Border. This component was cancelled in view of


                                                       5
Cambodia’s withdrawal from the regional Power Trade Project. No funds were spent under
this component during project implementation.

24.     Added Component L-1-b: Expansion of Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations
(US$2.3 million, 23 percent of revised total project cost). Following cancellation of
Component L-1, the GoL sent a request to the World Bank to use the unused grant proceed
of US$2,468,000 to finance the extension of the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations in
Attapeu and Champasak Provinces, respectively. Hence, a new component, L-1-b, was
added at the time of restructuring. This component was intended to facilitate the collection
of power from existing and upcoming generation power plants in the area and dispatch to
Ban Na Substation in Champasak Province for further power dispatch, including export to
the neighboring countries (Thailand and Cambodia) a. This component consisted of (a)
expansion of an existing substation building to accommodate the expansion of the
substation; (b) replacement of inadequately sized bus bars to align with current utility
substation standards; (c) installation of an additional 115/22 kV power transformer to
provide secure, reliable supplies to the Southern region of Lao PDR and neighboring
countries; and (d) associated additional outgoing 22 kV circuits to increase additional
power evacuation capacity to new load centers.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

25.     Project costs. Following the full cancellation of Components L-1 and L-6,
reduction in scope of Component L-4 and the addition of Component L-1-b, the revised
project cost was $14.00 million, to be funded by IDA grant amount of US$10.20 million
equivalent (SDR 6.7 million) and counterpart financing amount of US$3.80 million.

                     Table 2. Revised Project and Financing Costs (in US$ million)
                                    GMS Power Trade Project
 Components                                  Appraisal                       Restructuring
                                    Total Cost       IDA Financing   Total Cost     IDA Financing
 L-1: 115 kV Transmission
 System: Ban Hat Substation to        2.73               2.36          0.87                  –
 the Lao PDR Border (EdL)
 L-1-b: Expansion of
 Saphaothong and Ban Na                 –                 –            4.25              2.27
 Substations (EdL)
 L-2: 115 kV Transmission
 System: Xeset Substation to          4.41               3.73          5.25              4.57
 Saravan (EdL)
 L-3: Activities to Facilitate
 Implementation of Components         0.75               0.50          1.03              0.78
 L-1 and L-2
 L-4: LDC                             6.58               6.06          0.66              0.65
 L-5: Feasibility Study of Houay
 Lamphan Gnai Hydropower               1.7               1.70          1.65              1.65
 Project (MEM)
 L-6: TA for Collector Substation
                                      0.40               0.40            -                   –
 System (MEM)



                                                 6
 L-7: TA for Updating Tariff
                                    0.25           0.25           0.29           0.29
 Study (EdL)
 Total                             16.82          15.00          14.00          10.20

26.    Closing date. At restructuring, the project closing date was extended for 14 months
from December 31, 2013 to February 28, 2015. The extension was necessary to ensure
adequate time for the completion of procurement and works for the proposed new
Component L-1-b, upgrading and expansion of the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

27.     Robustness of background analysis. The background analysis carried out at
preparation was sound. The proposed investments were assessed to be technically viable,
well tested, and not complicated to put in place. A cost-benefit analysis was performed,
which resulted in satisfactory economic and financial rates of return. Financial
management (FM), procurement, and environmental impact assessment reviews were
undertaken, and the findings confirmed acceptability of the arrangements.

28.     Lessons learned from previous projects were applied to the GMS-PT projects.
The PAD clearly identified the relevant lessons learned from the World Bank’s prior
engagement in regional electricity market projects. Political consensus was recognized as
a key lesson learned and the IGA, signed in 2002, was identified as a political instrument
that could provide an authorizing environment for various regional institutions and a
platform to build consensus on market design.

29.     Assessment of project design. The objective of the project was closely aligned
with the GMS’ goal of regional integration. The project targeted strategic areas that could
significantly contribute to increasing system-to-system power sales. The PDO and key
indicators were designed to assess enhanced power trade, through direct cross-border
transmission lines and LDC, and to assess strengthening of the power grid in Lao PDR for
‘creating conditions for eventual interconnection’. Of the three investment components (L-
1, L-2, and L-4), Component L-1 included direct cross-border transmission lines and
Component L-4 was designed to build an LDC which was critical for facilitating power
trade. Considering that the Lao PDR power grid system was not fully integrated
domestically, the low electrification rate at the time of designing the project—including
the domestic supply component in the PDO and key indicator as well as the direct cross-
border power trade component—was reasonable and essential for creating conditions for
power trade in the future.

30.     Adequacy of government commitment. The GoL’s commitment and ownership
of the project was strong at all times. Their commitment was exemplified during
Cambodia’s withdrawal from the project and the subsequent restructuring, when they
requested the World Bank to reallocate the funds for a grid strengthening component which
directly supported the PDO.




                                            7
31.     Assessment of risks. Key project risks were correctly identified, but some country-
specific risks were not anticipated. The risks identified at appraisal included: (a) a decline
of political support for regional electricity grid integration; the risk was rated Moderate and
was to be mitigated through continued deep engagement of donors in integration initiatives
at regional and country levels; and (b) PPA-related issues affecting energy availability in
exporting country- and tariff-related disputes. The risk was rated Substantial and was to be
mitigated through signing of robust, fair, and flexible PPAs between national utilities and
included clearly defined tariffs, accounting, and payment mechanisms. The first risk did
not materialize as there was increasing political support for regional integration. The
second risk continued to be a major issue throughout the project as PPAs between utilities
were negotiated but not signed. At the component level, implementation delays were
identified as one of the risks, which would be mitigated through extensive consulting
assistance, training, coordination committees and progress reviews

32.    There was no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the quality of project at
entry. Overall risk rating was Substantial at entry and the ICR also rate the risk as
substantial.

2.2 Implementation

33.     The Lao PDR-Cambodia cross-border transmission component (L-1) was on hold
between 2007 and 2009 due largely to procurement delays in the Cambodia part.
Subsequently, after extensive planning work and negotiations between EdL and EDC, the
component was proposed to be upgraded from 115 kV to 230 kV, which would allow for
more power exports from Lao PDR to Cambodia. In August 2010 the RGC also requested
extension of the closing date to December 31, 2013 for Cambodia GMS-PT part. In June
2011, the World Bank informed the EDC and RGC that the request for restructuring could
not be processed due to country program conditions4. As a result, the Cambodia part was
cancelled in October 2011. (See Note of Cancellation of the Cambodia GMS-PT part and
its IEG review). Throughout the process, the World Bank tried to minimize the impact of
Cambodia’s issues on the Lao PDR part and had a dedicated team to facilitate coordination
for procurement and to provide extensive hands-on support.

34.    The GoL, EdL and the World Bank continued to work closely to cope with the
procurement delay, design change, and the cancellation of the Cambodia GMS-PT part.
There were a series of high-level dialogues with the GoL to make optimal use of the
remaining funds of the interconnection component. The project was restructured and a new
component (L-1-b) was added to achieve the PDO “creating conditions of for eventual
interconnections of Lao PDR with other countries of the region” and a part of the grant
balance was used for upgrading or extending the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations in
the Attapeu and Champasak Provinces. This component was completed successfully and
achieved all indicator targets. The component is enhancing power trade by satisfying the


4
  Specifically in relation to an unrelated Inspection Panel case which had led to deterioration of the World
Bank’s engagement in the country.



                                                     8
domestic demand and increasing power grid reliability, and excess capacity and electricity
can be eventually exported.

35.     An additional challenge facing the project implementation was power sector
restructuring in Lao PDR and separation of EdL Gen (operator of hydropower plants) from
EdL in 2010. EdL was transformed into the national grid company which necessitated
adjustments in its investment program. This included changes in the scope of LDC
component which was significantly expanded to meet the growing needs of power system
and market operator in Lao PDR. The Export-Import Bank of China offered financing
(about US$55 million) for the expanded LDC component, which abridged the World Bank
support to provision of consulting services and technical assistance for design and
implementation of SCADA and telecommunication systems. Fortunately, these changes
helped the project to better meet its PDO through expanded functionality and coverage of
newly established national dispatch center.

36.    There was no QAG review of the quality of project supervision.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

M&E Design

37.     The outcome indicators selected for the project fully reflected the PDO. The
monitoring system was simple and based on measurable outputs. The PDO level indicators
measured increased in demand in Saravan area of Lao PDR and increased capacity of EdL
to optimize its system operation and power trade, through the use of load dispatch center.
However, during project restructuring this indicator was dropped due to the reduced scope
of the World Bank’s financing for the component. Furthermore, during project
restructuring a PDO-level indicator was added to measure the built capacity of the
Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations. This indicator (increased capacity) was appropriate
to monitor output (installation of equipment), but not necessarily appropriate to measure
and monitor the outcome of the PDO. More fitting outcome indicators could have been
‘increased demand met in the Saphaothong area’ and ‘increased export from Lao PDR to
neighboring countries through the Ban Na Substation’.

M&E Implementation

38.     Both EdL and the DEPP prepared and submitted project progress report(s) to IDA
on a quarterly basis in the first year and twice a year afterwards. The quality of information
provided was good as the data from EdL and the DEPP was validated by the progress
reports from international consultants and field visits.

M&E Utilization

39.     The indicators were designed to capture the physical progress of the project and
were collected regularly. Hence, they could be used effectively to evaluate the timeliness
of project implementation, identify required actions to remedy delays and bottlenecks, and
help decision making for the restructuring. (See Section F of the Datasheet for the
achievement of the PDO indicators and intermediate indicators.)


                                              9
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

40.     The project was classified as Environmental Category B. The project triggered five
safeguards policies: Environment Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP
4.04), Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12),
and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50).

41.     Environment. The project was appropriately assigned “Category B” as the
impacts were deemed minor, short term and site specific, and which were mitigated through
successful implementation of Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) prepared by EdL.
The safeguard rating remained Satisfactory throughout the project. EdL had ensured
integration of specific EMPs in the contract documents. Contractors were informed about
their obligations to implement an EMP included in the bidding documents. On Component
L-2 (115 kV transmission line construction from Xeset-Saravan), an independent safeguard
final monitoring report verified no major issues anticipated. The new Component L-1-b
expanding capacity of the Ban Na and Saphaothong Substations was completed and the
substations are in operation. EdL prepared an EMP and it was disclosed before the
construction works had begun. No environmental issues were reported.

42.    EdL's Environment Office (EO) consisted of staff who were experienced in
safeguard implementation of the project and continued to improve the capacity to handle
GMS-PT projects. The EO at the national and provincial level received training by the
World Bank in safeguard screening, monitoring, and reporting and conducted monitoring
on project safeguard-related activities. The National EO staff are very familiar with the
World Bank's procedures and have the capacity to review Environmental Impact
Assessment reports and provide guidance to field staff. This institutional mechanism
proves the sustainability of safeguard implementation and ensures compliance not only for
the GMS-PT Project but also for further works to be undertaken by EdL.

43.     Social. Implementation of social safeguards under the project is rated Satisfactory.
No social safeguard issues were identified and reported during the project lifetime. The
expansion of the two existing substations in Ban Na, Attapeu and Saphaothong,
Champasak involved minor civil works only within the existing premises of the substations.
There was no new land acquisition, physical relocation, and asset loss beyond the
boundaries of existing substations under the project. The field-based social-environmental
officer closely monitored all social aspects of the project. It was noted that the consultation
and documentation of safeguard findings could have been more descriptive and the lessons
learned from the project have been reflected in the design and safeguard documents of the
new power grid project recently approved by the Board.

Fiduciary

44.     Financial Management. The overall FM performance was rated Moderately
Satisfactory throughout most of the implementation period, except for the period of
restructuring, where FM was also rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project assigned


                                             10
suitably qualified FM staff to support the project at the start. However, during the
separation between the EdL parent company and the EdL Generation (EdL-Gen) subsidiary,
staffing became an issue as handover of work and knowledge transfer was not properly
done. Refresher training on disbursements and preparation of the Interim Financial Report
(IFR) were provided by the World Bank FM team during project implementation. EdL still
requires hands on supports for FM documentation and reporting. The IFRs were not
submitted on time during the first half of the project implementation. Error-free IFRs were
then submitted on time after the project restructuring. The audit reports for both the project
and EdL were submitted with slight delays throughout the project implementation. All the
project audit reports were unqualified (clean). Entity audit reports were also unqualified
except for the audit period ending December 31, 2011. The 2011 opinion was a disclaimer
as the auditors were unable to verify the accuracy and completeness of fixed assets brought
forward balances, balances of trade receivable and borrowings, and early recognition of
dividend income. Subsequent years entity audit reports (2012 and 2013) were unqualified.
During the project implementation in October 2012, the project overcharged IDA on two
contracts, resulting in a total of US$175,845 refunded to the World Bank.

45.     Procurement. Procurement of goods, works, and consultants were conducted at
EdL’s headquarters following satisfactory procurement plans and the World Bank’s
procurement guidelines. All major works, equipment, and materials were procured through
International Competitive Bidding. There were no major issues regarding compliance with
World Bank procurement guidelines. The procurement activities under each subcomponent
of the EdL component were carried out by the staff of the respective EdL departments.
There were some delays in procurement for those subcomponents due to lack of
procurement experience in some of EdL’s departments. In addition, frequent EdL staff
turnover (every 2 years) negatively affected procurement performance. Overall,
procurement was carried out satisfactorily and the learning dimension of EdL improved
over the duration of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46.    The completed Components L-1-b: Expansion of Saphaothong and Ban Na
Substations and L-2: 115 kV Transmission System: Xeset Substation to Saravan are part
of EdL’s power transmission system and will be operated and maintained by EdL staff.
The operation and maintenance (O&M) budget is provided within EdL’s standard practice
for transmission system. EdL has operated and maintained similar equipment and
transmission lines, and skilled staff are allocated to the field and headquarters. With respect
to Component L-4: LDC, 40 staff were trained for the operation of the LDC.

47.     This project supported scaling-up of power trade with Cambodia and Thailand.
Several cross-border transmission line projects are under construction or planned by EdL.
The 115 kV transmission project from Ban Hat, Lao PDR to Kampong Salau, Cambodia,
funded by EdL, is scheduled for completion by August 2015. EdL has a three-year contract
with EdC (Cambodia) to export 4 MW, 10 MW, and 10 MW in 2015, 2016, and 2017,
respectively. Maximum capacity at the fully energized stage will be 80 MW. System-to-
system power trade agreement with Thailand and Singapore is being discussed, which is a
key part of the new sector strategy which aims to achieve an open and integrated regional


                                              11
market in the GMS. This will require significant investments in internal and cross-border
transmission infrastructure, as well as harmonization of national grid codes and market
rules.

48.    In June 2015, the 18th meeting of the RPTCC was held in Myanmar and provided
an update on current and future power trade activities in the GMS. Most importantly, the
GMS countries are working on the establishment of a Regional Power Coordination Center
which will be the first permanent regional institution focused on scaling-up electricity trade
in the GMS. Finally, cross-border electricity trade is now an integral part of power
development plans (PDPs) in all six GMS countries.

49.     In close coordination with the ADB financed GMS Program (see para below), the
World Bank is preparing a programmatic technical assistance which aims to support the
harmonization of national power regulatory frameworks in GMS countries through policy
or technical advice and capacity building for (a) open access to power transmission grids,
including common rules for non-discriminatory treatment of cross-border transactions and
(b) a regulatory framework conducive to public and private investments in the regional
power market, including transmission interconnections.

50.     The ADB is currently implementing the GMS Regional Investment Framework for
Energy and Phase II of the Strategic Environment Assessment for Strengthening
Sustainability of Power Sector Development in the GMS. The Framework identifies
priority investment projects for the GMS countries, including the Lao PDR-Viet Nam
Power Transmission Interconnection (US$218 million), Nabong 500 kV Substation
Transmission Facility Project in Lao PDR (US$106 million), PRC-Lao PDR-Thailand 600
HVDC Interconnection (US$600–800 million), and Thailand-Lao PDR-Viet Nam
Interconnection (US$278 million).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
Rating: High

51.     The relevance of objectives is assessed as High. The project objectives remain
highly relevant to the country’s policy objectives as well as the World Bank Group’s
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The GMS-PT Project is a priority for the GoL, and
the Long-Term Power Development Plan (PDP) 2014–2025 includes many cross-border
transmission lines with neighboring countries. The CPS FY12–16 for Lao PDR focuses on
three themes: (a) competitiveness and connectivity, (b) sustainable natural resource
management, and (c) inclusive development with a crosscutting theme of stronger public
sector management. The Lao PDR GMS-PT Project supported these themes by creating
the conditions for system-to-system connectivity and improving hydropower resource
management and electricity supply in selected provinces. The project supported the World
Bank’s regional economic cooperation strategy and will continue to contribute toward
achieving the overall regional cooperation objective through regional power systems
integration.



                                             12
52.      The relevance of design and implementation is assessed as High. The PDO, key
indicators, and implementation plan were designed appropriately. The design of the
transmission line (Component L-2) and of substations expansion (Component L-1-b)
directly supports the achievement of PDO in bringing reliable electricity to the Saravan
Province in Lao PDR while creating conditions for eventual interconnections with other
GMS countries. The TA activities under the project were appropriate because they directly
support the implementation of the aforementioned new transmission line and substations
expansion. Moreover, the TA activities directly contribute to: (i) the successful
development of the LDC that supports regional and domestic power trade; (ii) the
development of Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydropower Project that will add 88 MW of
generation capacity for power trade; and (iii) a new electricity tariff instruction effective
for 2012–2017 to ensure sustainable financial performance of the power sector and
facilitate power trade. The World Bank responded to assist clients with the changing needs
and communicated closely with EdL and the GoL for the restructuring of the project to
achieve the PDO. The PDO indicators were revised to align to the changes in the project
and to measure the progress of the restructured component, as discussed in section 2.3
(M&E design).

53.     This project supported scaling-up of power trade with Cambodia and Thailand.
Several cross-border transmission line projects are under construction or planned by EdL.
The 115 kV transmission project from Ban Hat, Lao PDR to Kampong Salau, Cambodia,
funded by EdL, is scheduled for completion by August 2015. EdL has a three-year contract
with EdC (Cambodia) to export 4 MW, 10 MW, and 10 MW in 2015, 2016, and 2017,
respectively. Maximum capacity at the fully energized stage will be 80 MW. System-to-
system power trade agreement with Thailand and Singapore is being discussed, which is a
key part of the new sector strategy which aims to achieve an open and integrated regional
market in the GMS.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54.     The overall outcome of the project, based on the split evaluation using the
weighted approach, is assessed as Moderately Satisfactory (see Table 3). Following the
cancellation of the Cambodia GMS-PT part (IDA-H3010) in October 2011, the GoL
requested a restructuring of the Lao PDR GMS-PT part in March 2013. The World Bank
processed and concluded the project restructuring in November 2013, after six years (i.e.
74% into the total implementation period) and after a significant amount, SDR 4.98 million
(US$7.7 million; around 50 percent of the original budget estimate), had been disbursed.
Following cancellation of SDR 3.2 million, the revised total IDA grant after the project
restructuring was SDR 6.70 million (US$10.2 million). The remaining amount, SDR 1.72
million (US$2.7 million), was disbursed after the restructuring. Therefore, weight factors
before and after the restructuring are 74 percent and 26 percent, respectively. Table 3 below
provides the details on the split evaluation calculation.




                                             13
                                           Table 3. Rating
                            Against             Against        Overall       Comments
                          Original PDO          Revised
                           Indicators        PDO Indicators
 1    Rating               Moderately          Satisfactory        –         Significant
                          Unsatisfactory                                     improvement
 2    Rating value              3                  5               –                   –
 3    Weight (%                74                  26             100                  –
      disbursed
      before or after
      PDO indicator
      change)
 4    Weighted value           2.2                1.3            3.52                –
      (2 x 3)
 5    Final rating              –                  –          Moderately
      (rounded)                                               Satisfactory

55.     The expected result of ‘bringing reliable electricity to selected provinces in Lao
PDR’	 was successfully achieved. The transmission line from the Xeset Substation to
Saravan was completed in September 2011 under Component L-2. This helped meet
increasing power demand, from 40 GWh at appraisal to 92 GWh at the end of 2014,
exceeding the project target of 65 GWh. Until the Xekong hydropower project is
constructed and starts operation, which may take more than 10 years, this component will
be used for domestic power supply. As such, this component is creating conditions of
eventual interconnection of Lao PDR with other countries of the region by satisfying the
domestic demand to leave the excess capacity and electricity to export through the higher-
voltage transmission lines. Table 4 below highlights the increase in access rates in the target
areas which were helped serve by the project.

                    Table 4. Increase in electricity access in targeted areas

                        Target Area           Baseline %         Current %

                          Saravan                 70                   98

                        Champasak                 51                   82

                          Attapeu                 28                   80




56.     The feasibility study for the Houay Lamphan Gnai hydropower project was
completed and the project is now under construction based on the completed feasibility
study (see annex 2). The review of the EdL tariff structure was completed as planned and
EdL is implementing the new tariff structure suggested in the study.

57.     Although the second half of the PDO, ‘creating the conditions for eventual
interconnections of Lao PDR with other countries in the region’,	 was at risk prior to
restructuring due to Cambodia’s withdrawal from the regional GMS Project, which
resulted in the cancellation of activities to establish a cross-border transmission line from


                                                 14
the south of Lao PDR to Cambodia, this aspect of the PDO was also achieved. Currently,
EdL does not use the Ban Na-Saphaothong transmissions lines for power trade with
Thailand nor Cambodia, but EdL is constructing and strengthening the cross-border power
lines between these countries for eventual power trade. With Cambodia, a 115 kV
transmission line linking the Ban Hat Substation in Southern Lao PDR and Kampong
Sralau in Cambodia is on track for completion in 2015. The transmission line (Component
L-1) has to date not been implemented, although remains under discussion. EdL will be
doubling the existing 115 kV link between the Bang Yo Substation with the Sirindhorn
Substation in Thailand. When upcoming hydropower plants are connected to the
Saphaothong Substation by 2017, excess capacity and electricity will eventually be
exported to these neighboring countries. EdL also plans to build 230 kV and 500 kV
transmission lines which will be the major export transmission lines in the future. The new
component supports enhancing power trade within GMS region by (a) strengthening the
domestic power grid leaving capacity for export through 230 kV or 500 kV transmission
lines planned for the power trade in the future and (b) directly exporting excess capacity
and electricity through 115 kV lines.

58.    The Load Dispatch Center Component was the largest investment component
(US$6 million) and one of the most critical components of the project with respect to GMS
power trade. At project entry, Lao PDR did not have an LDC for load dispatching. The
budget of this component was underestimated due to a limited scope of the LDC. The larger
budget was needed for supply and installation of an expanded scope LDC (around US$55
million). The GoL and EdL secured an export credit of US$55 million from the Export-
Import Bank of China and for Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell to supply and install the LDC.
The World Bank’s support was reduced only to TA. However, the World Bank provided
conceptual design and useful advice to the Contractor under the financing of the Export-
Import Bank of China. Consequently, the original PDO indicator—increased capacity of
EdL to optimize its system operation and power trade, through the use of LDC—was
achieved.

59.    The revised PDO indicators fully met the target. The project efficacy is assessed as
Substantial.

3.3 Efficiency

60.    At appraisal, the economic and financial analyses were conducted for Components
L-1 and L-2. However, at restructuring, Component L-1 was dropped and subsequently an
economic analysis was done for the new Component L-1-b. Hence, at completion, the
analyses were reassessed for Components L-1-b and L-2.

Component L-1-b: Extension of Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations

61.    The analysis at restructuring identified incremental electricity exports to Cambodia
and Thailand as the main economic benefit and revenue stream. However, the analysis at
completion additionally identifies incremental local demand served in the provinces of
Champasak and Attapeu from the Ban Na and Saphaothong Substations, respectively, as
an economic benefit and revenue stream.


                                            15
 62.    At restructuring, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to be 34 percent
 and the economic net present value (NPV) US$5.6 million. However, on project
 completion, the ERR was estimated to be in the range of 40-89 percent and the NPV in the
 range of US$14.8-29.7 million. These results are higher due to the rapid increase in local
 demand in Champasak and Attapeu.

 63.    At restructuring, financial analysis of the component was not performed. At
 completion, the financial rate of return (FRR) was estimated to be in the range of 61–79
 percent and the NPV in the range of US$87–97 million (see Annex 3).

 Component L-2: 115 kV Transmission System from Xeset Substation to Saravan

 64.     The analysis at appraisal for this component assessed the economic benefits and
 revenue stream of serving local demand at Saravan based on the demand forecast prepared
 by the GoL. The analysis at completion maintains the same approach and additionally
 considers the economic benefit of reducing CO2 emissions since the incremental demand
 is served by hydropower and is supplied more efficiently with a 115 kV transmission line.

 65.     At appraisal, the ERR was evaluated as 46 percent and the NPV US$51 million.
 Similarly, on project completion, the ERR was estimated to be 46 percent whereas the NPV
 was estimated to be US$20 million. The difference is primarily due to demand increasing
 faster than originally forecasted and a substantial increase in project cost at completion,
 which significantly affected the NPV.

 66.     At appraisal, the FRR was estimated to be 6 percent and the NPV US$1.48 million
 whereas, at completion, the FRR was estimated to be 24 percent and the NPV US$13
 million. Similar to the economic analysis, the results differ from the analysis at appraisal
 due to demand increasing at a faster rate and cost overruns.

 67.     Table 4 summarizes the results of the economic and financial analyses. Details of
 methodologies used and assumptions are outlined in Annex 3. Based on the positive results
 of the project, the efficiency of the operation is rated substantial.



                    Table 5. Summary of the Economic and Financial Analyses
                         Economic                                              Financial
Comp
         NPV (US$, million)           ERR                      NPV (US$, million)           FRR
onent
        Appraisal Completion Appraisal Completion             Appraisal Completion Appraisal Completion
L-1-b      5.6       14.8–29.7       34%         40–89%           –         86.8–96.6         –         61–79%

L-2       51.2          20.2         46%           46%           1.5            13.4         6%           24%
 Note: The starting year for the economic and financial analysis for Components L-1-b and L-2 are different,
 2013 and 2007, respectively. Hence, the results cannot be directly compared.


 3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating



                                                     16
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

68.     The overall outcome of the project, is assessed as Moderately Satisfactory. based
on (i) high relevance of the project to the GoL sector policy and development priorities,
as well as the World Bank Group’s CPS, ii) high relevance of design and implementation,
substantial achievement of project objectives, and the Substantial rating for efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

69.     The project contributed to poverty reduction by supplying reliable and affordable
power to the domestic market in Saravan (Component L-2) and Champasak and Attapeu
(Component L-1-b) by increasing access to electricity in these regions where many poor
people reside. Since the project, the household’s access to electricity rate has increased
significantly from baseline (see table 4).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

70.     Component L-7: TA for Updating Tariff Study contributed to development of new
tariff system, which in the long term will improve the investment environment for
financing hydropower projects for domestic supply. The need of legal instruments (for
example, grid code, regulations, and policies) which are necessary to create the regional
power market and scale up cross-border electricity trade was reconfirmed. A clear legal
framework is still to be developed to operationalize regional cross-border electricity
exchanges. The World Bank is preparing a programmatic TA which aims to support the
harmonization of national power regulatory frameworks in GMS countries through policy
or technical advice and capacity building for (a) open access to power transmission grids,
including common rules for non-discriminatory treatment of cross-border transactions and
(b) a regulatory framework conducive to public and private investments in the regional
power market, including transmission interconnections.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

71.    N/A.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Modest

72.     The risk to development outcome is assessed as Modest. The risk of not
achieving the outcome of ‘bringing reliable electricity to the Saravan Province in Lao PDR’
is Negligible or Low, while the risk of not realizing the outcome of ‘creating the conditions
for eventual interconnections of Lao PDR with other countries of the region’ (second half
of the PDO) is Modest. At the midterm review, the PDO “creating conditions of for
eventual interconnections of Lao PDR with other countries of the region” was at risk due
to cancellation of the cross-border transmission component (L-1) and the reduced scope of
the LDC component (L-4) funded by IDA. However, the risk was significantly reduced by
the completion of the new component (L-1-b) and the completion of the LDC by financing


                                             17
from the Export-Import Bank of China with the concept design and review provided by
this project.

73.     The revised Component L-1-b and Component L-2 were planned and designed to
contribute toward power trade through (a) strengthening of the domestic power grid for
reliable operation and (b) by exporting extra power that was not consumed domestically to
neighboring countries through cross-border transmission lines.

74.     Component L-4 was intended to contribute toward the goal of power trade by
creating a stable power grid condition. While the LDC was eventually financed by the
Export-Import Bank of China and completed, it was implemented with an enhanced project
scope which ensures strong support to the stated project goal. Furthermore, a significant
number of EdL’s staff have been trained to maintain the Lao PDR power grid in a stable
and reliable condition with the sophisticated software installed in the LDC and the SCADA
system. Therefore, the risk has been reduced and stable conditions have been created for
power system operation and regional power trade.

75.    The ‘eventual interconnection’ has been realized through the project; however,
enhancing the cross border power trade between the GMS countries require to meet
additional conditions. The contribution of Component L-1-b for future power sales to
Thailand and/or Cambodia is dependent on several assumptions listed below:

      (a) Hydropower connecting Saphaothong will be developed by the time of, or
          immediately after, the completion of Component L-1-b. (Nan Kong 2 [66 MW] and
          Nan Kong 3 [45 MW] are under construction estimated to be completed in 2017.)

      (b) Connecting capacity to Thailand is sufficient or additional capacity is developed
          soon.

      (c) Connecting capacity to Cambodia will be developed soon (this is under
          construction and to be completed in 2015).

      (d) Cambodia builds substations to distribute power to the consumers.

      (e) Adequate excess power is left for export after rapid growth of demand in the
          Southern provinces of Lao PDR compared to the transmission capacity.

76.     The risk of the first three factors stated above is Low as the hydropower plants and
transmission lines are already under construction. The fourth factor depends on Cambodia
and is not controlled by Lao PDR. The fifth factor depends on the demand growth rate and
the speed of construction of domestic transmission lines.

77.    Component L-2: 115 kV Transmission System: Xeset Substation to Saravan
increased the power supply capacity to meet the domestic demand increase in Saravan
Province. Contribution of Component L-2 to regional power trade will depend on the
hydropower plant is developed at Xekong which is still to be constructed in 10 years.

78.      Overall, the risk of development outcomes is assessed as Modest.


                                             18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.     The World Bank’s performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal of
the project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the World
Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major relevant aspects—
technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and FM. The
project was consistent with the CPS and Government priorities in the energy sector at the
time.

80.     The project’s overall risk was assessed as Substantial. The withdrawal of Cambodia
in October 2011 could not have been foreseen at appraisal in March 2007. The World Bank
was not able to formally respond to RGC request for restructuring due to boarder concerns
on the Bank’s engagement in Cambodia. Responding to GoL’s request for a project
restructuring in March 2013, the World Bank restructured the project by November 2013.
In addition, although the World Bank did identify the risk of PPA-related issues, the
mitigation measures did not include binding provisions, which are critical to ensure firm
commitment of power. The lack of such provision, however, did not impact the outcome
of the Lao part given that the existence of such provision would not have altered the reason
for cancellation of the Cambodia part.

81.     The social and environmental safeguard issues were addressed adequately in the
project design to minimize social and environmental impacts and ensure compliance with
the relevant World Bank policies.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

82.    The World Bank’s performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

83.     Throughout the project implementation process, the task team provided supervision
of key tasks and support on various technical and fiduciary issues. The task team played a
critical role in helping EdL update their system expansion plan and in reaching an
understanding on the export and import of energy within the context of regional power
trade.

84.     The World Bank communicated closely with EdL and the Government to deal with
the implications of the cancellation of the Cambodia part and to subsequently restructure
the project. There were a series of high-level dialogues with the Government to make
optimal use of the remaining funds of the interconnection component and it was decided
that the unused grant proceeds would be used to strengthen the grid for interconnection,
through extension of the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations. After restructuring,
implementation support for Component L-1-b was appreciated by EdL, specifically in
identifying technical and procurement issues.


                                            19
85.    Collaborating with EdL and the Government, the World Bank adjusted the scope
of work and budget for the LDC (Component L-4) after financing was secured for the
expanded scope of work from the Export-Import Bank of China. The LDC was the largest
component of the project, and the TA provided by the World Bank helped EdL achieve its
ambitious objectives. The World Bank’s TA was critical in initiating, designing and
implementing the first national LDC in Lao PDR.

86.     EdL worked closely with the World Bank in all aspects, including technical,
financial, procurement, and allocation amount of the project components during
restructuring. Coordination with the Ministry of Finance, EdL, and the World Bank was
quite effective. EdL and the Government considered field-based World Bank staff to be
quite helpful in providing timely advice and guidance.

87.     However, several changes in the task team leader (four during implementation)
contributed to the delay in restructuring the project. On the positive side, all task team
leaders during implementation were based in the field which allowed more frequent
interaction (both formal and informal) with counterparts.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

88.    Combining the World Bank’s Moderately Satisfactory performance at entry and the
Moderately Satisfactory performance during supervision, the overall World Bank
performance for this project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

89.    Government performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The government,
represented by the DOE, later renamed DEPP, under the MEM, has been committed to
regional power trade as demonstrated by its long-term strategy of developing its substantial
hydropower potential for export to its neighbors and growth into a major supplier to the
regional electricity market.

90.     During preparation and implementation, the Government was supportive of the
project. The Government (MEM), was also an implementing agency for two TA
components (L-5: Feasibility Study of Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydropower Project and the
cancelled L-6: TA for Collector Substation System). The Cambodian Government’s
withdrawal from the GMS-PT project was outside the control of the GoL.

91.     The Government has continued its engagement in power trade with its neighbors,
with continued development of its hydropower resources for export, a high-voltage
transmission line to Cambodia, and continued dialogue with other GMS countries, most
notably Singapore, on scaling up electricity trade in the region. With the request for
strengthening of substations during the restructuring, the GoL has also recognized that grid



                                            20
strengthening is critical for system-to-system power trade which is expected to become
prevailing model for electricity exports from Lao PDR in the future.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

92.     Overall performance of EdL is assessed as Moderately Satisfactory. EdL
worked closely with the World Bank to monitor the progress of each component and
implement guidance provided by the Government and the World Bank. Careful monitoring
of key performance indicators allowed restructuring and adjustment of the cross-border
component (L-1) to identify the new component (L-1-b) for achievement of the second half
of the PDO, ‘creating the conditions for eventual interconnections of Lao PDR with other
countries of the region’. Out of three investment components, two were completed (L-1-b
and L-2) and achieved the key and intermediate indicators. EdL identified alternative
financing for the larger scope of the LDC (Component L-4) and although the IDA support
was reduced for this component, the World Bank played a key role in enabling the
completion of the first national LDC in Lao PDR.

93.      The Borrower’s ICR was submitted to the World Bank in May 2015. It describes
detailed progress of each component but does not include performance evaluations of the
World Bank, Borrower, and implementation agencies nor the lessons learned from the
project. Evaluation and monitoring performance of EdL was Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

94.     Given the Moderately Satisfactory rating for Government (Borrower) performance
and the Moderately Satisfactory rating for implementing agency (EdL) performance, the
overall borrower performance rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

A. Regional energy projects involving multiple countries and implementing agencies
   require strong political commitment and adequate institutional and technical
   capacity for system planning and implementation.

95.     Regional energy projects involve multiple countries and multiple agencies, all of
which have different operating conditions and environments. To mitigate risks and
challenges in such a complex situation, strong commitment and ownership of participating
governments is crucial. Moreover, a strong political consensus for power interconnection,
a road map for implementation, and alignment of investments to the road map are necessary
for such regional projects.

96.     Adequate institutional capacity is needed to prepare a project implementation plan
including analysis of power transmission technology and load dispatching technology
alternatives. With technology development, power system planning changes quickly and
the planned activities become obsolete, which require regular reviews and updating of
implementation plans.


                                           21
97.     At the appraisal stage, 115 kV transmission line capacity was the prevalent highest
voltage used in the Lao PDR transmission system. Component L-1 of the GMS-PT Project
was also designed to use a 115 kV cross-border transmission line. However, with
increasing demand, higher voltages for efficient long-distance transmission became more
applicable, especially for cross-border transmission. Recognizing the increasing demand,
the project was then slated for restructuring using a 230 kV cross-border transmission line.
This highlights the importance of designing projects from the outset keeping in mind the
growing needs of the project areas and the most efficient method to meet those needs.

B. A strong Bank-client relationship and effective communication are crucial for
   moving a complex project forward.

98.     Besides the intention of the project to help the client in ‘learning by doing’ to
develop modalities for cross-border power trade, the commitment of Government
counterparts and flexible and close implementation support were crucial to the project
achieving the results. The World Bank and EdL worked closely with the Government to
adjust the scope of work and budget of the LDC (Component L-4) after the Export-Import
Bank of China offered to finance the larger scope of work for the LDC. The World Bank’s
Component L-4 was limited to cover TA only. Allocation of the budget to Component L-
1 was also stopped as the component was cancelled.

99.     Frequent staff changes and management turnover on both sides can hamper the
relationship and reduce communication effectiveness between the World Bank and the
client.

C. A well-designed PPA is fundamental to ensure firm commitment to develop
   dedicated transmission facilities.

100. Development of dedicated transmission facilities, such as cross-border
transmission lines, require firm commitment by electricity suppliers and buyers which is
often provided in a form of Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). Without binding provisions
in the PPA (or, alternatively, if the participating country does not comply with the binding
provision of a PPA for regional power trade), the regional power trade program can be
adversely affected.

101. These binding clauses could focus on the following: (a) a minimum supply level
and (b) a time frame for supply that would dictate when the power dispatching country
would execute; this would make regional power trade more viable. Similar binding
provisions—such as the ability to absorb agreed amounts of energy to be traded at
predetermined levels and times—should be included in the PPA not only for power
producing countries but also for power purchasing countries.

D. A regional power market is the logical vehicle to move toward large cross-border
   transactions in the GMS.

102. While long-term cross-border transactions have taken place in the GMS despite the
absence of a regional power exchange market, the bilateral transaction-by-transaction
approach may be feasible only when there are limited cross-border interconnections within


                                            22
the region. As regional interconnections grow and system-system transactions increase, it
becomes increasingly difficult and inefficient to pursue large cross-border transactions
without an established a region-wide framework of technical rules and transmission pricing
agreements. A regional power exchange market is the logical vehicle for developing these
rules and agreements that increase certainty and reduce transaction costs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
103. Not received.

(b) Cofinanciers
104. Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
105. Not applicable.




                                           23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$, million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal          Appraisal                          Percentage of
                                    Estimate at        Estimate at         Actual          Appraisal
         Components
                                   Original (US$,    Restructuring      (US$, millions)    Estimate at
                                     millions)       (US$, millions)                      Restructuring
L-1: 115 kV Transmission
System: Ban Hat Substation to           2.362              0.000             0.000               0
the Lao PDR Border
L-1-b (new): Expansion of
Saphaothong and Ban Na                 0.000               2.272             2.161              95
Substations
L-2: 115 kV Transmission
System: Xeset Substation to            3.728               4.567             4.734             104
Saravan
L-3: Activities to Facilitate
                                       0.500               0.779             0.557             111
Implementation of L-1 and L-2
L-4: LDC                               6.060               0.647             0.506              78
L-5: Feasibility Study of Houay
Lamphan Gnai Hydropower                1.700               1.647             1.647             100
Project
L-6: TA for Collector
                                       0.400               0.000             0.000               0
Substation System
L-7: TA for Updating Tariff
                                       0.250               0.290             0.203              70
Study

            Total Baseline Cost        15.000             10.200             9.805              96
Counterpart Funding                     1.817              3.800             1.9075
           Total Project Costs         16.817             14.000            11.7125           83.66
     Total Financing Required          16.817             14.000            11.7125           83.66

(b) Financing

                                                                         Revised at
                                    Type of           Original                               Actual
     Source of Funds                                                   Restructuring
                                  Cofinancing       (US$, million)                        (US$, million)
                                                                       (US$, million)
Borrower                          Counterpart            1.817              3.80              1.90
IDA Grant                           Grant                15.00             10.20              9.80




                                                    24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                Table 2.1: Outputs by Component

         Component                             Output summary                             Comments
L-1: 115 kV Transmission         Dropped                                            Cancelled in view of
System: Ban Hat Substation to                                                       Cambodia’s
Lao PDR Border                                                                      withdrawal from the
                                                                                    regional power trade
                                                                                    project.
L-1-b: Expansion of              Replacement of inadequately sized bus bars to      Added during
Saphaothong and Ban Na           align with current utility substation standards;   restructuring.
Substations                      (c) installation of an additional 115/22 kV        Supports future local
                                 power transformer to provide secure, reliable      demand needs with
                                 supplies to the Southern region of Lao PDR         extra capacity to
                                 and neighboring countries; and (d) associated      facilitate exports
                                 additional outgoing 22 kV circuits to increase
                                 additional power evacuation capacity to new
                                 load centers.


L-2: 115 kV Transmission         New transmission line completed                    Critical in meeting
System: Xeset Substation to                                                         rapidly increasing
Saravan                                                                             local demand in
                                                                                    Saravan that supports
                                                                                    exports
L-3: Activities to Facilitate    TA support for L-1-b and L-2 completed.            Due to cancellation
Implementation of L-1 and L-2                                                       of L-1 and addition
                                                                                    of L-1-b, scope
                                                                                    changed to include
                                                                                    TA for both L-1-b
                                                                                    and L-2.
L-4: LDC                         TA support for conceptual design of LDC            Scope was
                                 completed.                                         significantly reduced
                                                                                    from
                                                                                    supply/installation to
                                                                                    cover TA for
                                                                                    conceptual design
                                                                                    only, but leveraged
                                                                                    other funding to
                                                                                    complete larger
                                                                                    scope of LDC.
L-5: Feasibility Study of        TA support for the feasibility study of Houay      Study was completed
Houay Lamphan Gnai               Lamphan Gnai Hydropower Project                    and project was
Hydropower Project               completed.                                         selected for
                                                                                    investment by a
                                                                                    private company. To
                                                                                    be commissioned in
                                                                                    2015.
L-6: TA for Collector            Dropped                                            Cancelled as activity
Substation System                                                                   was completed under
                                                                                    alternative funding.
L-7: TA for Updating Tariff      TA support for tariff study completed.             Study was completed
Study                                                                               and used as reference
                                                                                    for tariff updates.


                                                  25
Component L-1: 115 kV Transmission System: Ban Hat Substation to the Lao PDR
Border

   1. This component encompassed development of a cross-border 115 kV transmission
      line linking Lao PDR (Ban Hat) and Cambodia (Stung Treng) to facilitate import
      of lower-cost electricity from Lao PDR to displace higher-cost, diesel-fueled
      generation sources in Cambodia. The component involved construction of (a) a 115
      kV double-circuit, 25 km long, predominantly lattice steel tower-mounted
      transmission line, having a firm capacity of about 90 MVA, from Ban Hat
      Substation to the Lao PDR border (at Veun Kham) and (b) two 115 kV switching
      bays at Ban Hat Substation.

   2. This component was cancelled in October 2011. No funds were spent under this
      component during project implementation.

Component L-1-b: Extension of the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations

   3. Following cancellation of Component L-1, the GoL requested the World Bank to
      use the unused grant proceed of US$2,468,000 to finance the extension of the
      Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations in Attapeu and Champasak Provinces,
      respectively. Hence, a new component, L-1-b, was added at the time of
      restructuring. This component was intended to facilitate the collection of power
      from existing and upcoming generation power plants in the area and dispatch to
      Ban Na Substation in Champasak Province for further power dispatch for export to
      the neighboring countries (Thailand and Cambodia) and at the same time increase
      capacity for supplying local demand. This component consisted of (a) expansion of
      an existing substation building to accommodate the expansion of the substation; (b)
      replacement of inadequately sized bus bars to align with current utility substation
      standards; (c) installation of an additional 115/22 kV power transformer to provide
      secure, reliable supplies to the Southern region of Lao PDR and neighboring
      countries; and (d) associated additional outgoing 22 kV circuits to increase
      additional power evacuation capacity to new load centers.

Component L-2: 115 kV Transmission System: Xeset Substation to Saravan

   4. This component provided the following elements:

   (a) A 115 kV double-circuit 25 km long, lattice steel tower (single 240 mm2
   aluminum conductor steel reinforced conductor and optical fiber earth wire), mounted
   line of about 90 MVA firm capacity. One circuit is financed by IDA and another circuit
   is funded by EdL.

   (b) A 115/22 kV, 20 MVA transformer (originally two transformers planned but
   reduced to one due to budget constraints) at Saravan, inclusive of 22 kV switching bays
   and two 115 kV switching bays at the existing Xeset Substation.




                                           26
   5. The first PDO indicator has been well achieved by this component completion.
      Until the Xekong hydropower project is constructed and starts operation, which
      may take more than 10 years, this component will be used for domestic power
      supply. This component is creating conditions of eventual interconnection of Lao
      PDR with other countries of the region by satisfying the domestic demand to leave
      the excess capacity and electricity to export through the higher-voltage
      transmission lines.

Component L-3: Activities to Facilitate Implementation of L-1 and L-2. This TA
component was to support EdL through the following subcomponents:

       L-3.1: Consulting Services: Project Design and Management for Components L-1
        and L-2 (US$0.25 million)

       L-3.2: Mitigation of Social and Environmental Impacts for Components L-1 and
        L-2 (US$0.25 million)

       L-3.3: Vehicles, Computers, and Office Equipment (US$0.25 million)

Component L-4: Load Dispatch Center

   6. This was the largest investment component (US$6 million) and one of the most
      critical components of the project with respect to GMS power trade. At project
      entry, Lao PDR did not have an LDC for load dispatching and the dispatch order
      of hydropower generation was (and partially still is) through phone calls and
      manual operations. Its IPP hydropower plants, equipped with SCADA systems, are
      dispatched by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand.

   7. EdL planned to interconnect its four independent area power grids, developing IPP
      (both export and domestic) hydropower projects and significant high-voltage/extra
      high-voltage interconnections with the neighboring countries of Thailand, Vietnam,
      China, and Cambodia. In fact Lao PDR, with its vast hydropower potential, would
      be a ‘generation’ hub for the GMS. Under these circumstances, it was imperative
      that Lao PDR implement, as quickly as possible, a modern Load Dispatch System,
      comprising both national and regional LDCs.

   8.   The budget of this component was underestimated due to the limited scope of the
        LDC. The larger budget was needed for supply and installation of a comprehensive
        LDC (around US$55 million). The GoL and EdL have secured an export credit of
        US$55 million from the Export-Import Bank of China and for Alcatel-Lucent
        Shanghai Bell to supply and install the LDC.

   9. The World Bank’s support was reduced only to TA. However, the World Bank
      provided conceptual design and useful advice to the Contractor under the financing
      of the Export-Import Bank of China. Consequently, the original PDO indicator—
      increased capacity of EdL to optimize its system operation and power trade, through
      the use of LDC—was achieved.



                                           27
Component L-5: Feasibility Study of Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydropower Project

   10. This component supported the feasibility study for a priority project (65 MW, 300
       GWh per year) of the GoL, as g part of a group of hydropower projects proposed
       to be developed in Southern Lao PDR interconnected for export and domestic use.
       The feasibility study of the Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydropower Plant was selected
       for investment by a private company. The construction began on May 5, 2011 and
       will soon be completed. The installed capacity is 88 MW.

Component L-6: TA for Collector Substation System

   11. This activity was cancelled in 2011 from the project financing and was completed
       on Government own resource.

Component: L-7: TA for Updating Tariff Study

   12. The GoL provided approval for EdL to implement the tariff in July 2005, with an
       average tariff increase of 1 percent per year up to 2011. Because the share of local
       consumption has changed due to an increase in big industries such as mining and
       hydropower project construction, EdL requested assistance from the World Bank
       for the tariff study. After the study was completed, a new tariff instruction was
       enacted in 2012 and in effect until 2017.This component was completed and used
       as a reference for the GoL and EdL to update the tariff.




                                           28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis Methodology, Assumptions and Results

Component L-1-b: Extension of Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations

Appraisal/Restructuring (from May 2013 Aide Memoire)

1.      The economic analysis at restructuring for this component assessed the benefits to
Lao PDR from the expansion of the Ban Na and Saphaothong Substations. The economic
benefits were derived from the incremental electricity exports to Cambodia and Thailand
as a result of the capacity expansion funded by US$2 million in IDA financing. The
incremental electricity supplied to Thailand and Cambodia was estimated to be 2 percent
of the overall generation capacity available for export and was valued at EdL’s
transmission margin in 2013 of 1.2 U.S. cents per kWh. The economic cost was taken as
the value of the capital expenditure funded by IDA over the two-year implementation
period. The O&M cost was reflected in EdL’s transmission margin. Based on the approach
and assumptions, the NPV was estimated to be US$5.6 million at the economic cost of
capital of 10 percent and the ERR to the project was 34 percent, which exceeded the criteria
for a positive economic return.

Completion

2.      The economic analysis at completion identified that the main benefits of the project
would be the incremental local demand served in the provinces of Champasak (Ban Na)
and Attapeu (Saphaothong) as a result of the project, valued at the transmission margin for
electricity of 1.2 U.S. cents per kWh, and electricity exports to neighboring countries,
valued at the WTP for electricity in Cambodia at 15 U.S. cents per kWh. The benefits of
the economic analysis at completion are based on the demand forecast for Ban Na and
Saphaothong. Incremental demand was forecasted based on existing data received from the
substations and EdL’s PDP (2012–2021), which estimates the peak demand forecast at
each substation. In addition, it was assumed that demand served due to this component is
constrained based on the capacity of the equipment installed. On the cost side, the
economic capital cost, discounted value added tax from the final contract amount and
totaled US$2.04 million. O&M was assumed as 2.5 percent of the capital cost, and the cost
of supplying incremental demand was assumed to be the average cost of electricity in Lao
PDR, 6.0 U.S. cents per kWh.

3.     Within EdL’s expansion plans, a new substation might be built about 8 km away
from the existing Saphaothong Substation which will serve as a collector substation and
eventually send power for export to Thailand and Cambodia through the Ban Lak and Ban
Hat Substations, respectively. As EdL’s PDP may no longer consider the Ban Na and
Saphaothong Substations as a link for power export, the economic analysis also considers
a scenario where there are no incremental exports due to the project.

4.      Based on the approach and assumptions, the baseline NPV was estimated to be
US$29.73 million and the ERR was 89 percent, with the project reaching the hurdle rate,
also referred to as the minimum acceptable rate of return (MARR), of 10 percent in 2017.


                                            29
These results are higher than the economic analysis at restructuring as electricity due to the
rapid increase in local demand in Champasak and Attapeu. To increase the robustness of
the analysis and to ensure that the component had a net positive impact, another scenario
was assessed where the component was assumed to not support exports but to only serve
demand at Saphaothong and Ban Na. This scenario was evaluated, as there is a possibility
that electricity exports will be made from another newly built substation. Under this
scenario, the NPV was estimated to be US$14.84 million and the ERR was 40 percent,
with the project reaching the hurdle rate of 10 percent in 2020.

                           Table 3.1. Component L-1-b Economic Analysis
                                                                                               Net
                                                                                             Benefit
                                                                                             s (US$
 Year      Cost (US$ million)                       Benefits (US$ million)                   million)
                                                  Value of
                                                 Increased    Value
                                     Value of     Demand       of
                                    Increased     Served - Exports
                                     Demand      Saphaoth Served
         Econo                       Served -      ong @        -
          mic                       Ban Na @     Transmis Saphaot
         Capital   O&M      Total   Transmissi      sion     hong @
          Cost     Cost     Cost    on Margin     Margin      WTP         Total Benefits
 2013     0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00                    0.00    0.00
 2014     1.14     0.00     1.14       0.00        0.00       0.00                    0.00    -1.14
 2015     1.14     0.01     1.15       0.00        0.00       0.00                    0.00    -1.15
 2016     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.00        0.00       0.00                    0.00    -0.05
 2017     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.00        0.14       4.06                    4.19    4.14
 2018     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.00        0.34       6.55                    6.89    6.84
 2019     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.33        1.13       5.56                    7.02    6.97
 2020     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.37        1.97       4.51                    6.85    6.80
 2021     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.40        2.57       3.76                    6.73    6.68
 2022     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.43        3.24       2.92                    6.59    6.54
 2023     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.46        3.99       1.98                    6.44    6.38
 2024     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.49        3.99       0.93                    5.42    5.37
 2025     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.53        3.99       0.00                    4.52    4.47
 2026     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.57        3.99       0.00                    4.56    4.51
 2027     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.61        3.99       0.00                    4.60    4.55
 2028     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.65        3.99       0.00                    4.64    4.59
 2029     0.00     0.05     0.05       0.70        3.99       0.00                    4.69    4.64
 2030     0.00      0.05    0.05       0.75        3.99       0.00                    4.74    4.69
 2031     0.00      0.05    0.05       0.81        3.99       0.00                    4.80    4.75
 2032     0.00      0.05    0.05       0.87        3.99       0.00                    4.86    4.81
 2033     0.00      0.05    0.05       0.93        3.99       0.00                    4.92    4.87
 2034     0.00      0.05    0.05       1.00        3.99       0.00                    4.99    4.94
                                                                             NPV @ 10%        29.73



                                                 30
                                                                                  ERR         89%
                                                                            MARR (10%)        2017



Component L-2: 115 kV Transmission System: Xeset Substation to Saravan

Appraisal (from PAD)

5.      The economic analysis at appraisal for this component assessed the economic
benefits of serving local demand at Saravan based on the demand forecast prepared by the
GoL. The economic benefit of supplying incremental demand was valued at the WTP for
electricity and the cost of supplying this demand was valued at the long-term marginal cost
of electricity supply. Based on the approach and assumptions, the NPV was estimated to
be US$51 million and the ERR was 45.6 percent.

Completion

6.      The economic analysis at completion maintains the same approach and assumptions,
in that, it also assesses the economic benefits of serving local demand at Saravan. The
economic analysis was revised based on rapidly increasing demand, reduction in CO2
emissions, and cost overrun of this component. The analysis at appraisal predicted that the
supply would be constrained (due to the capacity of Xeset 1) in 2025; however, due to
rapidly increasing demand, based on the data obtained from the Saravan Substation, the
supply would be constrained much earlier, in 2014. The analysis at appraisal did not value
the benefit of CO2 emissions reduction; however, since the incremental demand is served
by hydropower, it is apt to consider this benefit based on the social cost of carbon, valued
at US$30 per ton. The component also had a 20 percent cost overrun, which had a negative
impact on the economic analysis.

7.      Based on the approach and assumptions, the NPV was estimated to be US$20.17
million and the ERR was 46 percent, with the project reaching the hurdle rate of 10 percent
in 2013. These results differ from the economic analysis at appraisal due to rapidly
increasing demand in Saravan, the inclusion of benefits from CO2 emissions reduction, and
the substantial increase in project costs, which significantly affected the NPV.

                            Table 3.2. Component L-2 Economic Analysis
                                                                                    Net Benefits (US$
 Year              Cost (US$, million)                Benefits (US$ million)             million)
                                                             Value of
                                                             Reduction
                                                  Value of     in CO2
         Econo              Cost of              Increased Emissions
          mic               Increm                Demand          @
         Capital    O&M      ental       Total    Served     US$30/to     Total      With    Without
          Cost      Cost    Supply       Cost     @ WTP           n      Benefits    CO2      CO2
 2007     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.000       0.00        0.00    0.00
 2008     1.18       0.00     0.00       1.18      0.00       0.000       0.00       ˗1.18    ˗1.18
 2009     1.18       0.01     0.00       1.19      0.00       0.000       0.00       ˗1.19    ˗1.19


                                                  31
                                                                            Net Benefits (US$
 Year            Cost (US$, million)             Benefits (US$ million)          million)
 2010     1.18     0.04     0.00       1.22   0.00       0.000       0.00    ˗1.22     ˗1.22
 2011     1.18     0.09     1.19       2.46   2.70       0.001       2.70     0.24      0.24
 2012     0.00     0.12     1.27       1.38   2.88       0.001       2.88     1.50      1.49
 2013     0.00     0.12     3.04       3.16   6.91       0.003       6.91     3.75      3.75
 2014     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2015     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2016     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2017     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2018     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2019     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2020     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2021     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2022     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2023     0.00     0.12     3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2024     0.00      0.12    3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2025     0.00      0.12    3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2026     0.00      0.12    3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2027     0.00      0.12    3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2028     0.00      0.12    3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
 2029     0.00      0.12    3.99       4.11   9.08       0.004       9.08     4.97      4.96
                                                       NPV @ 10%            20.17      20.15
                                                       ERR                  46%         46%
                                                       MARR (10%)           2013        2013

Financial Analysis Methodology, Assumptions, and Results

Component L-1-b: Extension of Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations

Appraisal/Restructuring (from May 2013 Aide Memoire)

8.      At restructuring, financial analysis for this component was not prepared.

Completion

9.      The financial analysis is based on the financial costs and revenues for the
distribution company and derived from project implementation. On the cost side, the
capital cost was assumed to be the final contract amount for the component, US$2.27
million. O&M and cost of electricity supply were the same as in the economic analysis. On
the revenue side, the project gains revenue from higher electricity demand served, valued
at the weighted average retail tariff of 9.3 U.S. cents per kWh and exports, valued at the
import tariff to Cambodia of 7.0 U.S. cents per kWh.




                                              32
10.    Based on the approach and assumptions, the baseline NPV, at a discount rate of 5
percent, was estimated to be US$96.56 million and the FRR was 79 percent. As in the
economic analysis, a second scenario was evaluated where there are no exports supported
by the component. For this scenario, the NPV was estimated to be US$86.78 million and
the FRR was estimated to be 61 percent.

                           Table 3.3. Component L-1-b Financial Analysis
                                                                                                      Net
                                                                                                    Revenue
                                                                                                     (US$
 Year             Cost (US$ million)                           Revenue (US$ million)                million)
                                                          Revenue Revenue
                           Cost of      Cost of               -         -
                           Increm      Increme            Increase Increase     Revenue
                            ental        ntal             in Sales in Sales - - Exports
                           Supply      Supply -            - Ban    Saphaoth        @       Capi
        Capital   O&M       - Ban      Saphaot    Total    Na @      ong @      Cambodi      tal
         Cost     Cost        Na         hong     Cost     Tariff     Tariff     a Tariff   Cost
 2013    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
 2014    1.14      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.14      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00     ˗1.14
 2015    1.14      0.01      0.00       0.00      1.15      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00     ˗1.15
 2016    0.00      0.06      0.00       0.00      0.06      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00     ˗0.06
 2017    0.00      0.06      0.00       0.69      0.75      0.00       1.07       1.89      2.96     2.22
 2018    0.00      0.06      0.00       1.70      1.75      0.00       2.63       3.06      5.69     3.93
 2019    0.00      0.06      1.66       5.66      7.38      2.58       8.78       2.59      13.95    6.57
 2020    0.00      0.06      1.83       9.84      11.73     2.84      15.25       2.11      20.20    8.47
 2021    0.00      0.06      2.00       12.84     14.90     3.10      19.90       1.76      24.76    9.86
 2022    0.00      0.06      2.14       16.20     18.40     3.32      25.11       1.36      29.79    11.40
 2023    0.00      0.06      2.30       19.96     22.31     3.56      30.93       0.93      35.42    13.11
 2024    0.00      0.06      2.47       19.96     22.48     3.82      30.93       0.44      35.19    12.71
 2025    0.00      0.06      2.65       19.96     22.66     4.10      30.93       0.00      35.03    12.37
 2026    0.00      0.06      2.84       19.96     22.85     4.40      30.93       0.00      35.33    12.48
 2027    0.00      0.06      3.05       19.96     23.06     4.72      30.93       0.00      35.65    12.59
 2028    0.00      0.06      3.27       19.96     23.28     5.07      30.93       0.00      36.00    12.72
 2029    0.00      0.06      3.51       19.96     23.52     5.43      30.93       0.00      36.37    12.85
 2030    0.00       0.06     3.76       19.96     23.77     5.83      30.93       0.00      36.76    12.99
 2031    0.00       0.06     4.04       19.96     24.05     6.25      30.93       0.00      37.19    13.14
 2032    0.00       0.06     4.33       19.96     24.34     6.71      30.93       0.00      37.64    13.30
 2033    0.00       0.06     4.64       19.96     24.66     7.20      30.93       0.00      38.13    13.47
 2034    0.00       0.06     4.98       19.96     24.99     7.72      30.93       0.00      38.65    13.66
                                                                                NPV @ 5%             96.56
                                                                                FRR                  79%
                                                                                MARR (10%)           2018




                                                  33
Component L-2: 115 kV Transmission System: Xeset Substation to Saravan

Appraisal (from PAD)

11.     The financial analysis at appraisal for this component, assessed the revenues for the
distribution company at the import tariff of 7.0 U.S. cents per kWh. The NPV, at a discount
rate of 5 percent, was US$1.48 million and the FRR was 6.07 percent.

Completion

12.    The financial analysis at completion maintains the same approach as the analysis at
appraisal. Since the component only serves local demand, the revenues from serving
incremental demand were valued at the average retail tariff of 9.3 U.S. cents per kWh. On
the cost side, the capital cost was assumed to be the final contract amount for the
component, US$5.25 million. O&M and cost of electricity supply were the same as in the
economic analysis.

13.    Based on the approach and assumptions, the NPV was US$13.38 million and the
FRR was estimated to be 24 percent. Similar to the economic analysis, these results differ
from the financial analysis at appraisal due to rapidly increasing demand in Saravan and
cost overruns.

                             Table 3.4. Component L-2 Financial Analysis
                                                                                  Net Revenue
 Year             Cost (US$, million)                   Revenue (US$ million)     (US$ million)

                                 Cost of                Revenue -
        Capital      O&M       Incremental   Total     Increase in      Total
         Cost        Cost        Supply      Cost     Sales @ Tariff   Revenue     With CO2
 2007    0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00             0.00       0.00
 2008    1.31         0.00         0.00       1.31        0.00             0.00       ˗1.31
 2009    1.31         0.01         0.00       1.32        0.00             0.00       ˗1.32
 2010    1.31         0.04         0.00       1.36        0.00             0.00       ˗1.36
 2011    1.31         0.10         1.19       2.60        1.84             1.84       ˗0.76
 2012    0.00         0.13         1.27       1.40        1.96             1.96       0.57
 2013    0.00         0.13         3.04       3.17        4.71             4.71       1.54
 2014    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2015    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2016    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2017    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2018    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2019    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2020    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2021    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2022    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07
 2023    0.00         0.13         3.99       4.13        6.19             6.19       2.07



                                                 34
                                                                                                 Net Revenue
         Year             Cost (US$, million)                      Revenue (US$ million)         (US$ million)
         2024      0.00       0.13         3.99         4.13         6.19         6.19               2.07
         2025      0.00       0.13         3.99         4.13         6.19         6.19               2.07
         2026      0.00       0.13         3.99         4.13         6.19         6.19               2.07
         2027      0.00       0.13         3.99         4.13         6.19         6.19               2.07
         2028      0.00       0.13         3.99         4.13         6.19         6.19               2.07
         2029      0.00       0.13         3.99         4.13         6.19         6.19               2.07
                                                                               NPV @
                                                                               5%                    13.38
                                                                               FRR                   24%
                                                                               MARR
                                                                               (10%)                 2016


                              Table 3.5. Economic and Financial Analysis Summary Table
Com                         Economic                                               Financial
pone       NPV (US$, million)          ERR                        NPV (US$, million)              FRR
nt       Appraisal Completion Appraisal Completion              Appraisal Completion     Appraisal Completion
L-1-b       5.6        14.8–29.7        34%        40–89%           –         86.8–96.6          –           61–79%

L-2         51.2          20.2          46%          46%            1.5          13.4           6%            24%
        Note: The starting year for the economic and financial analysis for Components L-1-b and L-2 are
        different, 2013 and 2007, respectively. Hence, the results cannot be directly compared.




                                                           35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Beatriz Arizu de Jablonski   Consultant                         GEEDR
                                                                         Environmental
Bernard Baratz               Consultant                         GENDR
                                                                         Safeguards
Defne Gencer                 Senior Energy Specialist           GEEDR
Mohinder P. Gulati           Adviser                            GEEDR
Morten Larsen                Mining Specialist                  GEEDR Energy and Mining
Roch Levesque                Senior Counsel                     LEGAM Legal
Stephen Ling                 Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Spe     GENDR
Ramon Lopez-Rivera           Consultant                         GEEDR
                                                                        Energy
Darayes Bahadu Mehta
                             Consultant                         EASTE Development
Kari J. Nyman                Lead Specialist                    GEEDR
Apurva Sanghi                Program Leader                      AFCE2
                                                                EASTE - Financial
Rebecca C. Sekse             Consultant
                                                                  HIS Management
Jie Tang                     Program Leader                     SACBN Task Team Leader
                                                                        Energy
Robert P. Taylor             Consultant                          AFCS2
                                                                        Development
Veasna Bun                   Senior Infrastructure Specialist    GTIDR
Yuling Zhou                  Lead Procurement Specialist        GGODR
Youxuan Zhu                  Consultant                         GSURR
Supervision/ICR
Beatriz Arizu de Jablonski   Consultant                         GEEDR
                                                                EASWE
Alfredo Bano-Leal            Consultant
                                                                 - HIS
                                                                        Environmental
Bernard Baratz               Consultant                         GENDR
                                                                        Safeguards
                                                                EASFM - Financial
Kannathee Danaisawat         Financial Management Specialist
                                                                  HIS Management
Defne Gencer                 Senior Energy Specialist           GEEDR
Daniel R. Gibson             Consultant                          OPSPQ
Seida Heng                   Consultant                         GHNDR
Sidet Kim                    Program Assistant                   EACTF
Morten Larsen                Mining Spec.                       GEEDR Energy and Mining
Roch Levesque                Senior Counsel                     LEGAM Legal
Stephen Ling                 Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Spe     GENDR
                                                                EASRP-
Oithip Mongkolsawat          Senior Procurement Specialist
                                                                  HIS
Vachraras Pasuksuwan         Program Assistant                   EACTF Project Support



                                               36
Pajnapa Peamsilpakulchorn Consultant                             GTIDR
                                                                         Economic
Apurva Sanghi                 Program Leader                     AFCE2
                                                                         Development
                                                                 EASTE - Financial
Rebecca C. Sekse              Consultant
                                                                   HIS Management
Jie Tang                      Program Leader                     SACBN Task Team Leader
                                                                         Environmental
Manida Unkulvasapaul          Consultant                         CEAMV
                                                                         Safeguards
Teresita G. Velilla           Temporary                          GGODR
Yuling Zhou                   Lead Procurement Specialist        GGODR Procurement
                                                                         Environmental and
Youxuan Zhu                   Consultant                         GSURR
                                                                         Social Safeguards
Veasna Bun                    Senior Infrastructure Specialist    GTIDR Task Team Leader
Mohinder P. Gulati            Adviser                            GEEDR
                                                                         Energy
Darayes Bahadu Mehta
                              Consultant                         EASTE Development
James Orehmie Monday          Senior Environmental Engineer      GENDR
                              Senior Social Development
I. U. B. Reddy                                                   GSURR
                              Specialist
Frederic Asseline
Panos Vlahakis                Senior Operations Officer          CASEF   Power Engineer
Julia M. Fraser               Practice Manager                   GEEDR   Task Team Leader
Luis Lopez-Polin Reano        Temporary                          AFTA1   Project Support
Jacqueline Rodriguez Garcia   Consultant                         EASTS
Thalavanh Vongsonephet        Program Assistant                  EACLF   Project Support
                              Senior Social Development
Satoshi Ishihara                                                 GSURR Social Safeguards
                              Specialist
                                                                         Environmental
Bunlong Leng                  Environmental Specialist           GENDR
                                                                         Safeguards
Sombath Southivong            Senior Infrastructure Specialist   GTIDR
Barry Trembath                Consultant                         GEEDR
Juana Veronica Guillermi
                              Consultant                         GENDR
Mendizabal Joffre
                                                                       Infrastructure
Patricia Ramos Peinado        Consultant                         GEEDR
                                                                       Analyst
                                                                       Environmental
Makathy Tep                   Consultant                         GENDR
                                                                       Safeguards
Rome Chavapricha              Senior Energy Specialist           GEEDR Task Team Leader
Vilayvanh Phonepraseuth       Operations Analyst                 GEEDR Operations Support
Yanqin Song                   Senior Energy Specialist           GEEDR
Asad Ali Ahmed                Consultant                         GEEDR
Masaki Takahashi              Senior Power Engineer              GEEDR
Khamphet Chanvongnaraz        Procurement Specialist             GGODR Procurement
                              Senior Monitoring & Evaluation
Juliana Chinyeaka Victor                                         GPSOS
                              Specialist
                                                                         Financial
Phaymany Philakone            Consultant                         GGODR
                                                                         Management


                                               37
Kaysone Vongthavilay      Program Assistant              EACLF Project Support

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                        US$, thousands
                                    No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)

Lending

  FY07                                        28.42               206.77
  FY08                                         0.00                 0.00
                          Total:              28.42               206.77
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                        10.35                78.26
  FY09                                         5.54                46.05
  FY10                                         8.00                65.77
  FY11                                         8.13                46.85
  FY12                                        20.37                64.80
  FY13                                        10.30                43.55
  FY14                                        18.38                54.96
  FY15                                        15.11                79.76
                          Total:              96.18               480.74




                                         38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                     40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Borrower’s ICR was submitted to the World Bank in May 2015. The summary of the report
is attached below. The Borrower’s report focuses on technical details. EdL confirmed with
the World Bank on August 8, 2015 that they had no comment on the World Bank ICR.

       A:     Loan Overview:

Approval                     :       5 June, 2007
Signing Contract             :       5 September, 2007
Loan Effective               :       12 December, 2007
Closing Date                 :       31 December, 2013
Application Deadline         :       30 April, 2014
Financial    IDA             :       15 M USD
Financial    EDL             :       1.8 M USD


       B:     Detail Project Descriptions

The GMS-PT Project conforms to IDA'SGMS two-pronged strategy to support: (a)
investments in infrastructure associated with economical bilateral power exchanges
between the GMS countries; and (b) technical assistance for the conceptual formulation,
detailed design and ultimately the realization of a GMS grid and a GMS Power Market.
Designed in this context of early development of the GMS grid, the proposed Project would
bring significant benefits, through low cost electrification, to the provincial areas of
Cambodia and Laos, currently sparsely electrified by unaffordable diesel-fired generation.
Additionally, the Laos project would lay the foundations for a Communication Network, a
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System for national and regional load
dispatching, so vital for economic operation of the electricity network of Lao PDR, per se
and vis- -vis the GMS grid. Geographically, the Project involves three GMS countries -
Cambodia, Lao PDR and Vietnam - Cambodia is the "recipient" of power and Lao PDR
and Vietnam the "suppliers".

The Project has seven Components (L-1 to L-7), detail information of each package is as
follows:

1:      Component L-1: 115 kV Transmission System: Ban Hat Substation to Lao
PDR- Border:
 This Component consist of the 115 kV Transmission System for supply of surplus hydro
power from the South of Lao PDR to the Province of Stung Treng in Cambodia. It would
involve construction of: (i)115kV double-circuit (240 sqmm ACSR conductor and Optical
Fiber Earth Wire), 25km-long, predominantly lattice tower-mounted transmission line,
having a firm capacity of about 90 MVA, from Ban Hat Substation to the Lao PDR border
(at Veun Kham); and (ii) two 115 kV switching bays at Ban Hat Substation. This
Component is supported by detailed technical, economic, environmental and social impact
studies carried out by Consultants under PHRD Grant (PHRD Grant Number: TF054626).


                                            41
1.1 Component L-1b Extension of the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations.
       The component L-1, after cancellation the project (115 kV Transmission System:
Ban Hat Substation to Lao PDR- Border), new proposed changes to the new sub component
L-1b Extension of the Saphaothong and Ban Na Substations.
The component L-1b’s objective extension substation following below:
Scope of work.

1. Extension of one no. of 115 kV transmission feeder bay in 115 kV switchyard of Ban
   Na Substation. And all associated works, functions, interlocking and interfacing
   schemes with the existing system.

2. Extension of one no. of 115 kV transmission feeder bay in 115 kV switchyard of
   Saphaothong Substation. And all associated works, functions, interlocking and
   interfacing schemes with the existing system.

3. Construction of one no. of 115 kV transformer bay, one no. of 115/22 kV 16/20 MVA
   transformer including with three 22 kV switchgears and static capacitor bank at
   Saphaothong Substation. And all associated works, functions, interlocking and
   interfacing schemes with the existing system.

4. Replacement of existing 115 kV bus bar by new aluminum tube bus at Saphaothong
   substation.

5. All protection, control and interlocking schemes of new and existing bays including
   bus bar protection shall be full coordinating. In order to fulfill of operation safety issue
   And IEC 61850 lastest version shall be adopted for new protection devices.

6. The new and existing communication equipment shall be interfaced and cooperated to
   fulfill EDL’s requirement including voice, adata and teleprotection schemes.


2:      Component L-2: 115 kV Transmission System: Xeset Substation to Saravan:
This Component constitutes a link in the 115 kV Transmission System that would around
2010 or thereabouts interconnect Thailand, Laos and Cambodia in southern Lao PDR,
through connecting Xekong Substation, Saravan Substation, Xeset Substation and Ban
Jianxi Substation. While implementation of this link strictly from the view point of
completing the aforementioned transmission system could be deferred by about two years,
its early implementation under the proposed Project is justified on its own merits, as it
would enable supply of rapidly growing demand (and thereby economic development of
the rural areas) of the province of Saravan, through least cost power supply at 115 kV. It
would involve construction of: (i) a 115 kV double-circuit (240 sq mm ACSR conductor
and Optical Fiber Earth Wire), 25 km-long, lattice steel tower mounted line of about 90
MVA firm capacity;(ii)a115/22kV,2x20MVA Substation at Saravan, inclusive of
22kVswitchingbays; and(iii)two 115 kV switching bays at the existing Xeset Substation.
This Component is supported by detailed technical, economic, environmental and social




                                             42
impact studies carried out by Consultants under the aforementioned PHRD Grant
TF054626.

3:      Component L-3: Activities to Facilitate Implementation of L-1and L-2: It has
the following sub-components:

3.1: Sub-Component L-3.1: Consulting Services: Project Design and Management
for Components L-1 and L-2:
While basic designs for the Transmission Lines and Substations and the Bidding
Documents have been prepared by Consultants under the aforementioned PHRD Grant
TF054626, limited consulting assistance through individual experts (about 10 staff-
months) would be provided under the proposed Project to assist EdL in bid evaluation,
contract finalization and subsequent management of the two Single Responsibility Supply
and Install Contracts proposed for Components L-l and L-2.

3.2: Sub-Component L-3.2: Mitigation of Social and Environmental Impacts for
Components L-1 and L-2:
For details of this component refer to Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues (in PAD).


3.3:   Sub-Component L-3.3; Vehicles, Computers and Office Equipment:

This sub-component is of vital importance to strengthen the capabilities of EdL in
executing the Project. For details, see Procurement Plan, Annex 8 in (PAD).


4:     Component L-4: LDC (including Consulting Services):

Currently Lao PDR does not have a LDC for load dispatching, and dispatch of it
hydropower generations is rather primitive, mainly through phone calls and manual
operations. Its IPP hydropower plants, equipped with SCADA systems, are dispatched by
EGAT12. Over the next few years, EdL would be interconnecting its four independent area
power grids, developing IPP (export as also domestic) hydropower projects and significant
HV/EHV interconnections with neighboring countries of Thailand, Vietnam, South China
and Cambodia. In fact Lao PDR, with its vast hydropower potential, would be a
"generation" hub for the GMS. Under these circumstances, it is imperative that Lao PDR
implements as quickly as possible a modern Load Dispatch System, comprising both
National and Regional Load Dispatch Centers. This has been confirmed by a pre-feasibility
study for Load Dispatch Centers recently accomplished by Consultants under PHRD Grant
TF0.54626. While LDCs (both "soft" and "hard") will improve the quality of domestic
supply, it is, from a regional perspective, essential for bringing: (i) voltage and frequency
control; (ii) system protection; and (iii) technical information exchange for dispatching in
Lao PDR up to the minimum standards required for security of the grids in neighboring
countries that are connected, or will be connected to EdL's grid. By doing so, both the
security of a future integrated GMS power grid and EdL's participation in regional power
trade would be enhanced. This Component provides for: (i) Consulting Study for detailed
feasibility and design of the Load Dispatch System and subsequently, (ii)based on priorities


                                             43
identified and co-financing available, staged construction of the L D C as appropriate,
including the associated buildings (likely to be existing ones), and SCADA systems and
communication facilities.


5:     Component L-5: Feasibility Study: Houay Lamphan Gnai Hydropower
Project:

This is a priority project (65 MW, 300 GWh p.a.) of GoL, forming part of a group of
hydropower projects in Southern Lao PDR, which are proposed to be developed and
interconnected for export and domestic use. Consultants financed through PHRD Grant
TF054626 have prepared a pre-feasibility study of the project and have short-listed two
options with parameters of: (i) generation cost of about 3.0 USc/kWh and resettlement of
about 960 persons; and (ii) generation cost of about 3.4 USc/kWh and no resettlement. This
Project Component would advance the preparation of the hydropower project to feasibility
stage. The outcome of the study would underpin future project financing and
implementation.


6:     Component: L-6; TA for Collector Substation System:

 Lao PDR has a large number of potential hydropower projects that could be developed for
export to Thailand and Vietnam. In the past it has been the practice for IPP developers (for
the Thai Power Market) to construct individual hydropower projects (Nam Theun 2, Theun
Hinbun, Houay Ho) and use dedicated transmission lines from the project to the receiving
substations in Thailand. With more extensive development of hydropower projects,
foreseen in the coming years, a need is felt for clustering hydropower stations into suitable
groups and collecting their outputs at substations located in Lao PDR, for eventual
transmission to other countries. This type of arrangement, it is believed, would provide
technical and economical benefits per se, and also facilitate the application of broader
economic principles of developing a GMS Grid and a GMS Power Market. Such an
arrangement would, however, need careful consideration of commercial/ownership,
financing, pricing, etc. issues. This Project Component would provide TA of about twenty
staff-months for this purpose.


7:     Component: L-7: TA for Updating Tariff Study:

The current Tariff Study for EdL is over three years old. Under a rapidly changing
investment scenario, where EdL is being increasingly mandated by GoL to undertake
investments in hydropower projects, the tariff study needs to be updated taking into account,
especially, the impact of export/import tariffs on EdL's performance. The TA would help
EdL in developing suitable financial models for undertaking such studies on its own in
future.




                                             44
       Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                      45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

      1. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on Proposed IDA Grants to the Kingdom
         of Cambodia and to the Lao PDR in support of the GMS Power Trade Projects,
         May 8, 2007, Report No. 37455

      2. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of GMS Power Trade
         Project, Lao PDR, November 14, 2013, Report No. 82347-LA

      3. Implementation Summary Reports

      4. Aide Memoires

      5. Note on Cancelled Operation for the Cambodia Greater Mekong Subregion
         Power Trade Project, June 20, 2012, Report No. NCO00002335

      6. Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) ICR review on Cambodia GMS Power
         Trade Project, January 14, 2013, Report No. ICRR 13986

      7. Summary of Discussions: Eighteenth Meeting of the Regional Power Trade
         Coordination Committee (RPTCC-18), 9-10 June 2015

      8. Financial Agreement, GMS Power Trade Lao PDR project, September 5, 2007

      9. Amendment to Financial Agreement, GMS Power Trade Lao PDR project,
         November 19, 2013




                                        46
