                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                          Report No: 30373-CO




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



                           The Republic of Colombia



    Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Structural Adjustment Loan II



                                 Ln 72010-CO




                              September 28, 2004




Public Sector Group
Colombia-México Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region




                                      1

                    Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                      For Programmatic Adjustment Operations

   Operation ID:P083905                       Operation Name: Programmatic Fiscal
                                              and Institutional Structural Adjustment
                                              Loan II
   Team Leader: Mario Sangines                TL Unit: Public Sector
                                              Report Date: September 28, 2004


1. Program Data
                 Name: Programmatic Fiscal and          L/C Number: 72010-CO
                        Institutional Structural
                        Adjustment Loan II
   Country/Department: Colombia                         Region:        Latin America
                                                                       and the
                                                                       Caribbean
                                                                       Region
      Sector/Subsector: Central Government Administration (60%);
                        Sub-National Government Administration (20%);
                        Law and Justice (10%);
                        General Education Sector (10%)
                Theme: Administrative and Civil Service Reform (P);
                        Debt Management and Fiscal Sustainability (P)


   Key Dates
                                                         Original        Raised/Actual
    PCD/PR: Oct/23/2003                       Effective: Nov/24/2003     Nov/24/2003
    Appraisal                                    MTR:
    Approval: Nov/20/2003                      Closing: Feb/25/2004      Feb/25/2004


   Borrower/Implementing Agency:      Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
                                      Departamento Nacional de Planeación
   Other Partners:                    None


   STAFF                Current                             At Appraisal
   Vice President:      David de Ferranti                   David de Ferranti
   Country Director:    Isabel Guerrero                     Isabel Guerrero
   Sector Manager:      Ronald Myers                        Ronald Myers
   Team Leader at ICR:  Mario Sanginés                      Mario Sanginés
   ICR Primary Author:  Hernán Pfluecker




                                            2

2. Principal Performance Ratings


   (HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory; HL=Highly Likely; L=Likely;
   UN=Unlikely; HUN=Highly Unlikely; HU=Highly Unsatisfactory; H=High; SU=Substantial;
   M=Modest; N=Negligible)

   Outcome:                                  S
   Sustainability:                           L
   Institutional Development Impact:         SU
   Bank Performance:                         S
   Borrower Performance:                     S

                                           QAG (if available)            ICR
   Quality at Entry:                                                     S
   Operation at Risk an Any Time:                                        M


3. Program Description

   a. The Program

       When the Uribe administration took office in Colombia in mid-2002, it was faced with a country
       in turmoil and uncertainty. The 40-year-old armed conflict was at one of its peaks and society
       demanded security, honesty in government, and improvements in social services. One of the
       pillars of the incoming Government's policy was a public sector modernization program, which
       sought to reduce operational costs and induce greater efficiency and effectiveness in key
       government processes. This program sought to increase tax revenues, keep expenditures in
       check, and reduce fiscal rigidities that result from structural, legal, institutional, or practical
       deficiencies in public sector management.

       The Government's fiscal and institutional reform agenda is supported by the Bank through the
       series of four single-tranche Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loans (FIAL). The objectives of
       this series of loans are two: first, to promote reforms addressing fiscal rigidities necessary to
       attain the substantial fiscal adjustment underlying sustainable macroeconomic stability; and
       second, to improve the provision of public services and establish the institutional basis for higher
       efficiency and accountability in public expenditure.

       In addition to the Government's overall fiscal commitment, which requires a macroeconomic
       framework consistent with the program, the specific objectives of the FIAL program can be
       divided into three main categories:

       Revenue rigidities and tax reform: (i) promote tax policy reforms to increase tax revenue and
       reduce distortions in the tax system, including a broadening of the tax base, a reduction of
       exemptions, and overall simplification of the policy framework; and (ii) modernize the tax
       administration, through actions that improve information flows, auditing capacity, and overall
       institutional performance. Regarding this objective the expected aggregate results of the FIAL
       Program are: a) Average annual contribution to total fiscal revenues of 1.4 percent of GDP from




                                                    3

        2003 to 2006; and b) Average annual contribution to a reduction in current expenditures of 0.71
        percent of GDP from 2003 to 2006.

        Expenditure rigidities and institutional reform: (i) improve budget management with modern
        tools including, inter alia, a new legal framework that promotes a unified vision of the budget,
        introduces medium-term budgeting tools, and reduces inflexibilities in expenditure; (ii) reduce
        losses and generate revenues through improved management of public sector physical assets,
        primarily real estate; (iii) prevent massive losses to the State from judicial claims through an
        improvement in the regulatory framework and institutional strengthening of the entities in charge
        of legal defense; (iv) develop incentives for efficiency gains in sub-national entities, primarily
        through a results-based royalty transfer system; (v) strengthen the public sector procurement
        system, including the legal framework and the establishment of a regulatory entity inside the
        government; (vi) introduce performance criteria into the public sector through the implementation
        of management contracts with select public sector agencies; and (vii) support a coherent and
        comprehensive reform implementation process. Regarding this objective the expected aggregate
        results of the FIAL Program are: a) A public expenditure system more closely linked to results; b)
        Improved targeting of public expenditure toward public policy priorities; c) A more transparent,
        simpler, and institutionally robust system of public sector procurement; and, d) More efficient
        and cost-effective use of the assets of the public sector.

        Fiscal Responsibility: Promote the development of a sound fiscal responsibility legal framework,
        based upon a new Law that regulates fiscal aggregates and establishes modern instruments for
        fiscal management. Regarding this objective the expected results of the FIAL Program are
        increased reliability and transparency in medium-term fiscal planning and a framework for more
        realistic budgeting.

        The overall structures of objectives and components described in the FIAL I Program Document
        have remained unchanged. There were, however, three specific changes in the policy actions in
        relation to the original matrix: First, the presentation of new budget legislation to Congress
        suffered delays primarily because of the political environment surrounding the recent referendum,
        so it was agreed that it would become a prior action for the third loan. Second, there was a
        change in the strategy of the tax administration component derived from the implementation of a
        new, comprehensive information technology/process reengineering effort that caused a change in
        the sequence of some conditions. Finally, the policy actions used to measure progress in the asset
        management component were changed from revenue-generation targets to institutional
        development indicators, following the advice from Bank experts in the subject.

   b. The Operation

        The second loan of the program (FIAL II) continued accompanying the Government of Colombia
        along the process of implementing a group of fiscal and institutional reform measures.
        Specifically, this second loan focused on the following elements: (i) issuance of all regulations to
        apply the tax reform law; (ii) further improvements in tax administration, including specific audit
        targets and the implementation of integrated tax-customs audits; (iii) approval of an official
        budget reform strategy; (iv) Congressional approval of an improved 2004 Annual Budget Law;
        (v) presentation to popular vote of the Constitutional referendum; (vi) issuance of a new policy
        for legal defense of the state; (vii) presentation to Congress of reforms to the public procurement
        law; (viii) approval of an official asset management policy and the achievement of specific


1Had the Constitutional Referendum been approved, the overall contribution on the reduction of expenditures would
have been an annual 1.6% of GDP over the same period.


                                                       4

       revenue targets; (ix) signature of management contracts with two government agencies; and (x)
       enactment of a Fiscal Responsibility Law.

       The policy matrix for the loan consisted of both: prior actions (or triggers), and conditions for
       disbursement. The triggers were essential milestones for the progress of the program defined in
       the FIAL I document and were treated, essentially, as non-negotiable elements of the matrix. The
       conditions were subject to some adjustment during the preparation of FIAL II, but as mentioned
       above, remained relatively unchanged from the original program matrix. The borrower and the
       Bank agreed that all conditions contained in the matrix would be achieved before consideration of
       the loan by the Board of Executive Directors. Therefore, the negotiations of the loan were used
       to verify the fulfillment of the conditions and that the policy matrix of the loan was fully
       implemented and ready for disbursement by the time it was approved by the Bank.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

   Despite the complexity of the policy matrix, which called for 15 conditions (some of which had
   several sub-conditions) for disbursement, the borrower achieved all of them before loan approval.
   Compliance was verified by the Bank during the negotiation process. It should be noted, however,
   that two of the specific conditions regarding tax administration and legal defense components have
   been subsequently modified:

   · In the Tax Administration component, the institutional indicators were prepared and published in
       the DIAN website as required in the matrix. However, DIAN decided shortly afterwards that
       they needed improvement and they were removed from the website. It was agreed by the Bank
       team that, as part of the preparation of the next loan of the program, that DIAN introduce the
       improved indicators back into the website.

  · Regarding the legal defense component, the CONPES document was approved as required.
       However, this document has proven to be too general in terms of policy direction, and has not
       become the cornerstone of the legal defense of the state strategy as expected. A lack of detailed
       information by the borrower on the magnitude of the legal claims contributed to the lack of
       specificity of the CONPES document. The Bank team has agreed that the necessary actions are
       taken in the upcoming loan to quantify the magnitude of the legal claims and to bring this
       component up to speed in relation to the overall program.

  Considering the broad scope of the policy matrix, which included substantial elements such as the
  passage of legislation and/or the presentation of bills to Congress, the two modifications to the reform
  process are relatively minor in magnitude and, in the end may help to improve the program.
  Nonetheless, it is still important that the upcoming loans keep track of these changes to avoid slippage
  in the program.

  The following paragraphs reflect the specific conditions contained in the policy matrix and how they
  were achieved.

  · Overall fiscal commitment. The condition specifies that the execution of the national central
       government budget for the year 2003 ­ at the end of the third calendar quarter and before
       disbursement of the second loan ­ does not exceed 75% of the overall deficit limit of said budget.
       At the third quarter of calendar 2003, the cumulative deficit of the National Central Government
       was 7.69 billion pesos, equivalent to 63% of the projected deficit for 2003, which was lower than
       the stated limit on the condition. This information was in the CONFIS report "Plan Financiero"
       issued on December 2003. The condition was met. However, the failure of the Referendum that


                                                    5

                                            Figure 1: Timeline of Changes in Tax Policy

                                                  Tax Revenues of the Central Government
                                                                   (% GDP)

  18.0%
                                                                                         Law 863 of 2003
                                                                                         Elimination of exemption of income tax, 0.4% Financial
  16.0%               Law 6 of 1992 VAT                                                  Movements, and renew the wealth tax
                      14%
                                                                                                                                             14.0%p
                      Imprenta 37.5%
  14.0%                                                                                                                13.5%
                                     12.8%  Law 223 of 1993             Law 488 of 1998                 13.2%
                                                                                                                                   13.9%
                    12.0%                   Tributary statute           0.2% Financial Movements

  12.0%                                                                                                         Law 788 of 2002
                            12.2%                                        10.8%            10.6%                 Elimination of exemptions
                                                           9.7%                                          11.2%  of VAT and income taxes,
% 10.0%                                                                                                         and established a one time
GD             10.2%                   10.0%                                      10.6%
                                                              10.1%                                             wealth tax.
P          Law 49 of 1990
   8.0%    VAT 12%                                               Law 383 of 1997                 Law 633 of 2000
                                                                 Control of Evasion              VAT 16% and 0.3%
   6.0%                                                                                          Financial Movements



   4.0%



   2.0%



   0.0%
      1989  1990     1991    1992     1993  1994       1995    1996      1997      1998   1999       2000    2001       2002     2003     2004    2005

                                                                         Year


       included expenditure containment measures and the sentence of the Constitutional Court that
       required a retroactive salary increase for public sector workers caused the overall deficit for the
       year to close higher than anticipated. The target was renegotiated with the IMF and the overall
       fiscal balance closed at ­2.7% of GDP, instead of the ­2.5% originally forecast. Annex I of this
       ICR shows a table with the evolution of the fiscal accounts and the individual contribution of the
       FIAL components.

  · Tax reform. The tax reform condition specifies that that the Borrower issues the necessary
       executive decrees to regulate the application of Tax Law 788 of 2002. During 2003 and 2004 a
       set of decrees regulating the Tax Law 788 were issued that satisfied this condition. The most
       relevant decrees issued on 2003 were Decrees 2755, 3172 and 3228, and in 2004 the most
       relevant Decree was 540. Figure 1 shows the impact of the latest tax reform measures, including
       Law 788, and the more recent Law 863, which will be discussed in the context of the upcoming
       FIAL loans.

  · Tax administration. This condition stipulated that the Borrower, through DIAN, has: a)
       developed and implemented software to cross-reference information with financial institutions to
       ensure that interest reported by them match interest reported by taxpayers; b) audited at least 50%
       of large taxpayers (as defined by the Tax Code) affected by the new taxes; c) established and
       published indicators of the cost and time required for tax filing compliance by taxpayers, and d)
       carried out at least 80 integrated tax and customs audits.

       The new information system is functioning and during its first year of operation detected 8,679
       cases of taxpayers' evasion. Between January and August 2003, 41% of the large taxpayers were
       audited (specific information has not been obtained on the auditing of the new taxes), and at the
       time of the disbursement, the indicator for this condition had surpassed the minimum of 50%
       stated in the condition. As indicated above the tax filing cost and time indicators were designed
       and were published in the DIAN website, but they have been subsequently removed and are in the


                                                                      6

  process of being improved and updated. Also,550 integrated tax and customs audits visits have
  taken place, exceeding the 80 visits agreed. Overall, the condition was met.

· Budget management. There were two conditions specified under budget management. The first
  condition was that the Borrower has approved CONPES document number 3252 dated October
  20, 2003, that outlines the strategy for national central government budget reform, including,
  inter alia: (a) the elimination or reduction of permanent entitlements and earmarked revenues; (b)
  the regulation of the use of forward budgeting; and (c) the establishment of controls over
  expenditure aggregates. This condition was met when CONPES document 3252 was approved on
  time covering the requirements established by the condition.

  A second condition stated that the government has submitted to Congress and that Congress has
  approved the 2004 budget bill of law, which includes, inter alia, (a) medium term fiscal outlooks;
  (b) the calculation of tax expenditures and contingent liabilities; and (c) the presentation by
  functions of the Borrower's government sector, integrating current and capital Borrower's
  government expenditures. The 2004 Budget Law that was approved by Congress complies with
  what was specified in CONPES, as well as the requirements spelled out in the condition. The
  condition was met. As part of the budget reform process, the government also submitted a draft
  "Organic Budget Code" to Congress, which is a compilation of all budgetary rules.               This
  document, which is part of the conditionality of FIAL III, is a significant step forward in terms of
  reducing rigidities and strengthening control over fiscal aggregates.

· Development of incentives for efficiency gains.           The first condition stipulated    that the
  Borrower has must submit to popular vote the provision of the Referendum that reallocates
  royalty transfers to finance the provision of educational services. Question 13 in the Referendum
  made reference to this issue as required by the condition. The condition was met when the
  Referendum was submitted; however, it did not receive enough votes to pass, even though it
  received an overwhelming positive response.       The government has shown insistence in terms of
  making royalty use more efficient through the reallocation of a significant part of the National
  Royalty Fund toward education services, based on demand (capitation) criteria. To date, it seems
  that results are positive in terms of efficiency gains.

  As part of the reallocation toward education, a second condition stated that the Borrower's
  Ministry of Education has issued a resolution (Resolution Number 277/03, dated February 17,
  2003) to establish the eligibility criteria to allocate economic resources generated from the
  application of Law 21 for the benefit of public education infrastructure projects in the Borrower's
  territory. Resolution 277/03 was issued as required. This decree ordered procedures that made
  more effective and efficient the use of funds created by Law 21. The condition was met.

· Defending the State against the extraordinary growth of legal claims. The condition was
  approval by the Borrower of a CONPES document establishing, inter alia, the new policy for
  legal defense of the state, including legal reform if necessary. The CONPES document (number
  3250) was approved on October 20, 2003 and has set some basic guidelines for policy in this
  area. However, as indicated previously the lack of specific information on ongoing litigation at
  the time the document was approved requires that upcoming loans bring the formulation and
  implementation of the specifics of the policy up to speed. Nevertheless the condition was met
  formally.

· Strengthening public sector procurement. The first condition was that the Borrower has
  approved CONPES document number 3249, dated October 20, 2003, establishing, inter alia: (a)



                                                 7

 the principles that apply to government public procurement, (b) the creation of a new agency or
 the assignment to an existing agency of public sector procurement responsibilities, and (c) the
 definition of a strategy for developing and implementing e-procurement.             The CONPES
 document was approved in October 2003, containing all the elements required by the condition.
 The condition was met.

 A second condition stated that the Borrower has proposed to its legislature modifications to the
 bill of law amending Law 80 that incorporate the recommendations of CONPES, including, inter
 alia: (a) common principles for public procurement; (b) introduction of economic considerations
 into the public procurement process; and (c) institutional framework for public procurement. The
 bill amending Law 80 (Bill 018) was presented to Congress and contains all the elements required
 by the condition. The bill was withdrawn in March on procedural grounds and was reintroduced
 to Congress in June. The new bill no longer includes the creation of a normative entity for public
 sector procurement, but the government has assured the Bank that this can be achieved through a
 Presidential Decree which will be approved before FIAL III goes to the Board. The operation of
 this entity is a trigger for FIAL III. The condition was met.

· Asset management. The condition was that the Borrower has approved CONPES document
  number 3251, dated October 20, 2003, establishing the basic principles and strategic planning for
  Asset Management, including, inter alia: (a) the institutional framework for Asset Management;
  (b) management information systems for Asset Management; and (c) adequate rules and
  procedures for Asset Management. CONPES document number 3251 was approved in October
  2003, and it satisfies the terms of the loan. The condition was met.

  In the short term the program objective is to rationalize the public real estate assets inventory,
  while the medium term objective is to develop an efficient and sustainable asset management
  system. The long term objective is to include all kinds of public assets ­including decentralized
  and regional public institutions- into the management system. At the moment the main effort is
  oriented to collect all the relevant information from the institutions, with expected coverage of
  now 186 institutions and over 24,000 buildings valued at US$ 68.5 million. At present, 4,716 of
  the reported buildings are already registered with their physical and administrative details in the
  PROGA information system.

· Management contracts for government agencies. The condition was that the Borrower,
  through MHCP and DNP, has signed pilot management agreements with SENA and ICBF. The
  agreements with the family welfare institute (ICBF ­ Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar)
  and the vocational/technical learning service (SENA ­ Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje) were
  signed in October 2003 and are being implemented. The condition was met.

 The National Service for Training (SENA) provides technical education to defined groups of the
 population in order to qualify the labor force and provide adequate skills for young people
 seeking their first job, and for older workers. Currently, SENA's budget accounts for 0.82 percent
 of the total national budget. The Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF) is a national
 agency that provides basic health (nutrition) services for the most vulnerable children and other
 groups under special risk. ICBF's annual budget accounts for about 1.56 percent of the total
 national budget. Each agency had agreed to an ambitious four-year strategic plan with the new
 Ministry of Social Protection. Management agreements have been signed and are already in
 operation between the Ministry of Finance, the National Planning Department, the Ministry of
 Social Protection, and the agencies involved, as a key complement to the reform and
 modernization strategies in both entities. This instrument should provide the incentives to



                                                8

                generate the desired virtuous cycle that promotes administrative efficiency, financial
                independence, and service improvements for their beneficiaries.

            · Management of the public sector reform process. The first condition was that the Borrower
                has approved CONPES document number 3248 dated October 20, 2003, establishing the overall
                strategy of public sector reform and a recommendation to design indicators on public sector
                productivity and effectiveness. In October 2003 the CONPES document 3248 was approved as
                required by the condition. The condition was met.

                A second condition stated that the Borrower has developed a monitoring and evaluation system
                for the state reform process with indicators of productivity and effectiveness and has widely
                publicized it, including its publication through DNP's web site. The evaluation system is
                operational, and indicators of productivity and effectiveness were designed, made known among
                the entities, and published in the Web page of DNP. The condition was met.

            · Fiscal responsibility. The condition was that the Borrower has enacted Law Number 819 of 2003
                that regulates, inter alia: (a) the annual presentation of: (i) a medium-term fiscal framework with
                deficit targets linked to debt sustainability; (ii) a report of fiscal results to Congress (including all
                debt and contingent liabilities), and (iii) a financial plan that includes measures to fully
                compensate for any fiscal slippage in the previous year; (b) restrictions on future spending
                obligations of national and sub-national governments; and (c) the obligation to include the fiscal
                impact and source of financing within any new national law that affects taxes or expenditures.
                The Law was passed by Congress and enacted by the Government, and contains all the elements
                required by the condition. The condition was met.

            In terms of the achievement of the objectives of the loan, it should be noted that none of the loans in
            the program have individual objectives of their own; they are meant to contribute to the overall
            objectives of the program, as defined initially. In that sense, the following table reflects the degree to
            which this second loan contributed to the overarching objectives of the FIAL program:



                         Table 1: Contribution of the FIAL II Loan to the Overall Program Objectives

Component              Program Objective                                           Contribution and Challenges Ahead
1. Overall       The macroeconomic framework of        Substantial. The loan promoted sustainable public sector balances coherent with the IMF Stand-
fiscal           the Republic of Colombia is           By Agreement. The fiscal deficit for 2003 remained within the limits specified in the agreement
commitment       consistent with the objectives of the with the IMF.
                 program.
2. Tax reform    Increase tax revenues, improve tax    Substantial. Although the substantial tax reform package was passed as Law 788 under FIAL I,
                 neutrality and equity, reduce tax     this loan ensured that the necessary by-laws and regulations were put in place to ensure adequate
                 expenditures.                         implementation of the new tax policy framework.
3. Tax           Increase Tax Revenues, Strengthen     Moderate/Substantial. Most of the substantial tax administration improvements will be seen when
administration   Tax Equity; Reduce Tax                the new "Muisca" information technology platform is deployed in 2005. However, the improved
                 Expenditure and Opportunities For     information flows, auditing standards and management tools have contributed to increases in
                 Corruption.                           revenue and therefore to the overall program objective.
4. Budget        Convert the budget into a more        Moderate/Substantial. The centerpiece of the budget reform strategy is the new Organic Budget
management       effective tool for sound fiscal       Code, which will include new regulations for medium-term budgeting, forward budgets, improved
                 policy and service delivery           classification standards, and specific measures to reduce budgetary inflexibilities. The CONPES
                 improvement.                          document prepared under this loan was only a moderate contribution towards the establishment of
                                                       the new budgeting framework. However, the 2004 Budget Bill presented to Congress was a major
                                                       improvement in terms of transparency and performance-related information and complies with the
                                                       new Fiscal Responsibility Law.
5.               Ensure that spending for service      Moderate/Substantial. The key instrument to achieve this policy objective was the Referendum of
Development      delivery is realized with greater     October 2003, which included a question related to the use of royalty transfers to sub-national
of incentives    efficiency, effectiveness, and        entities. The referendum did not pass. However, more efficiency and efficacy in the use of
for efficiency   within budget constraints. A step     resources in education was generated through new regulations for financing public education




                                                                           9

                         Table 1: Contribution of the FIAL II Loan to the Overall Program Objectives

Component               Program Objective                                         Contribution and Challenges Ahead
gains            toward elimination of transfer       infrastructure projects.
                 rigidity and management for
                 results.
6. Defense       Improve the capacity of the State to Moderate. Although a basic policy paper has been issued, the lack of information on the extent
against legal    reduce and respond to legal claims   and status of existent demands against public entities does not permit setting definite defense
claims           and diminish their fiscal cost.      policies. A diagnosis of the problem and compilation of information from entities is still underway,
                                                      which should make the contribution of future loans of the program more substantial.
7.               Ensure that government purchases     Substantial. Some of the key deficiencies in the procurement system are the large number of
Strengthening    are transparent and efficient.       special procurement regimes, the lack of economic (versus purely legalistic) criteria in the
public sector                                         procurement process, and the inexistence of a normative entity. The bill that was submitted to
procurement                                           Congress under this loan resolves these deficiencies and is expected to be approved by the end of
                                                      calendar 2004.
8. Asset         Increase the value of assets owned   Moderate/Substantial. As in other components of the program, the definitive contribution to this
management       by the State, generate additional    component will be presentation (and passage) of a bill to Congress that establishes the framework
                 revenue by liquidating those that    for efficient asset management. Until this is achieved, there can be important intermediate steps but
                 are not directly linked to service   with a less structural impact. In this case, the CONPES document provided a good policy
                 delivery, reduce replacement and     framework that has to be put in place by the Law.
                 restoration costs, and eliminate
                 opportunities for corruption.
9. Management    Enhance the efficiency and           Uncertain. Although the contracts with ICBF and SENA were signed and are under
contracts for    financial self-sufficiency of        implementation, the success of the instrument itself will not be clear until they are finished and
government       government agencies.                 evaluated in September 2004. If the evaluations reflect real performance improvements and the
agencies                                              agreed-upon incentives are provided by the Ministry of Finance in the 2005 Budget, these contracts
                                                      will have been a substantial contribution towards the goal of management for results.
10.              Promote policy and technical         Substantial. The conceptual framework of the overall reform process was significantly
Management of    coordination for the successful      strengthened through the issuance of the official policy document. Furthermore, the indicators
the public       application of reforms within a      system and processes for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting have established the basis for
sector reform    framework of strengthened            adequate implementation and follow-up of this policy.
process          governance, accountability, and
                 policy sustainability.
11. Fiscal       Reduce fiscal imbalances.            Substantial. Along with the upcoming Organic Budget Code, the Fiscal Responsibility Law
responsibility                                        enacted by the Government under FIAL II is the fundamental regulatory framework to reduce fiscal
                                                      imbalances. This law provided important elements for medium-term financial planning,
                                                      transparency, restrictions on future spending, and other sound fiscal principles. The 2004 Budget
                                                      Law contains the fiscal information and the financial plan called for in the Fiscal Responsibility
                                                      Law.



            Overall, the progress of the program is satisfactory, and the FIAL II loan contributed substantially to
            achieving the overall objectives. However, there remain important challenges ahead, and the Bank
            needs to keep a close watch over the developments in the country to ensure that the upcoming loans
            capture the government's program adequately and provide the borrower with adequate policy advice.
            One of the key areas where close monitoring is required is tax policy. The government is moving tax
            policy reform further than originally foreseen by the program. Partly in response to the constitutional
            challenge faced by the 2% VAT on basic foodstuffs and the ballooning liabilities of the social
            security system, the government is preparing a new tax reform package that may include an
            expansion of the VAT base and the elimination of certain exemptions. It is very important that the
            government's medium-term vision for tax reform is captured by the program and its specific actions
            introduced into the policy matrix.

            Care should also be taken with the budget reform component. This component sustains one of the
            key foundations of the FIAL program, which is the reduction of expenditure rigidities. Once the draft
            Organic Budget Code currently in Congress is approved, the government will have to present an
            additional bill to eliminate a number of legal provisions that earmark revenues or create other
            rigidities. It is important that the program includes at least the presentation of this bill in its policy
            matrix for upcoming loans.




                                                                          10

  The third loan in the program (FIAL III) is beginning to be prepared. Board presentation will likely
  take place during 2004. The triggers for FIAL III are on track: The Organic Budget Code bill has
  been presented to Congress, policies and actions for legal defense are being implemented in the
  Ministries of Interior and Justice and Finance (with the support of a World Bank grant), and the
  agency responsible for asset management has begun to operate. A decree establishing the regulatory
  entity for public sector procurement is being prepared, and the baseline and progress indicators for
  public sector reform have advanced significantly (also with the support of a World Bank grant).

   The remaining conditions of the matrix are being defined, but no significant deviation is expected
   from those described in the FIAL II document. Some specific elements, such as the negotiation of the
   services agreement with the banking sector for handling tax collections and the revision of the budget
   classification system according to international standards, may have to be deferred for technical
   reasons. On the other hand, new tax policy measures may be introduced in order to continue the
   expansion of the VAT base.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

   So far, the program is being implemented despite resistance and political obstacles. The letter of
   development policy defined a clear reform path and it is being followed mostly without deviation.
   There have been delays in certain elements that are not unusual in a program of this complexity, but
   these do not compromise the substance and expected impact of the program, as the government has
   shown flexibility and commitment by resorting to fallback measures (some identified earlier in the
   FIAL documents) to achieve program objectives.

   Political uncertainties will remain, most notably:

   · There is considerable debate between the government and Congress now over a proposed
       Constitutional amendment to allow the president to stand for reelection, and some analysts have
       claimed that this debate is taking political space away from structural reforms. Although the facts
       show otherwise ­ the Organic Budget Code and Procurement Bill are being debated in Congress
       and a new round of tax reforms will likely be submitted to Congress soon ­ it is important that the
       Bank monitor the political environment closely and raise an alert if the reform process starts to
       stall.

   · The Government has a troublesome relationship with the Constitutional Court, which has
       overturned certain elements of the 2002 tax reform supported by the program. Specifically, the
       introduction of a low-rate VAT for basic foodstuffs and education and health services was
       declared unconstitutional. It is hard to predict if any other elements of the program, including
       possible new tax policy initiatives, will face similar challenges. This is another area where close
       monitoring will be required.

  · As the FIAL is a programmatic adjustment operation, the success or failure of each loan depends
       on the groundwork prepared by the previous loan. In the case of this particular program, this
       groundwork is heavily dependent upon agreements with various actors over policy priorities, and
       even on the outcome of a Referendum which sought to drive the reform process forward.
       Although the program is still delivering benefits and the government remains committed to its
       reform program, it has been forced to move to second-best alternatives in some cases because the
       original plans were not politically viable. This has been a factor impacting implementation and
       cannot but affect expectations for portions of the program.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance


                                                     11

    The Government had a very active participation in the preparatory phases, and this has continued
    throughout the whole implementation process. Although in some cases popular support for the
    proposed changes to the legal framework was not sufficient, the Government pursued alternative
    instruments which, albeit less ambitious, have generated favorable impacts. For example, when the
    Referendum to redistribute royalty funds was not approved, the Government, by decree, ordered
    procedures that made more effective and efficient the use of funds created by Law 21. In this manner,
    the benefit obtained from the use of these funds has permitted that educational infrastructure projects
    be undertaken.

    Another example is the creation of the normative entity in charge of public sector procurement, which
    is a trigger for FIAL III. The government was unable to reach an agreement with Congress over
    creation of this entity by law, primarily due to the reluctance to creating new public sector entities
    within the current fiscal constraints. However, after internal consultations, the government decided
    that it was feasible to assign these functions to a inter-ministerial committee through an executive
    decree, establishing in turn a technical secretariat inside DNP. Although this has to be evaluated
    during the FIAL III preparation, it seems that this is a feasible and fiscally neutral solution for
    advancing the reform process.

    The Government has also deployed a team of very capable individuals to lead the preparation of the
    FIAL program. One of the merits of this team has been the effective coordination between the
    Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration Department (DIAN) and the National Planning Department
    (DNP) "sub-teams", since the implementation of the program is done jointly by all three. The
    Ministry of Finance team, led at the time by the Technical Vice-Ministry and its Multilateral Entities
    coordinator, devised a very useful scheme for monitoring progress in all components and was key in
    the efficient preparation of the loan. Similarly, the DNP team was well integrated with the unit
    responsible for overall public sector reform and ensured consistency between that effort and the
    FIAL. Finally, the DIAN team is undertaking a significant modernization effort and is able to
    capitalize its institutional strategy to support FIAL objectives.

    The Bank has had an active participation and has been an effective technical facilitator during the
    preparation of the Loan and during its implementation. The Task Manager of this operation is based
    in Colombia, which has made the policy dialogue much easier and better articulated with other
    elements, such as the PFMP II2 technical assistance loan, which provides support to several areas of
    the FIAL program. The Bank has also approved two grants that support the program: A PHRD grant
    for the preparation of FIAL III and IV, and an IDF grant to support asset management.

    The operation was not subject to an Environmental Assessment and therefore OP 4.01 did not apply.
    However, there is a safeguards issue derived from OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement, which is
    still being resolved in collaboration between the borrower, the LCR Social Development Team
    (LCSEO), and the task team. This issue stems from the elimination by Law 788 of the capital-gains
    tax exemption on the sale of real estate to the public sector upon involuntary resettlement. This Law
    was supported by the FIAL I loan. A team under the direction of the Ministry of Finance is now
    working on defining alternatives that would ensure that the wealth of the resettled population is not
    affected by tax measures. Although a final solution is not expected in the immediate future, some
    progress by this team is expected before FIAL III goes to the Board.

    In general, the performance of the Borrower and the Bank has been satisfactory.


2The Public Financial Management Project, Phase II, provides technical assistance support for the areas of
procurement, budgeting, and tax administration.


                                                       12

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operations

   The experience with FIAL II shows a high degree of collaboration between the Government and the
   Bank, and this should remain a central characteristic of the preparation of the upcoming loans of the
   program. Colombia is a middle-income country with a fairly sophisticated public sector and an
   explicit reform agenda, so this collaboration has to also be complemented with flexibility in terms of
   specific conditions while retaining a good overall vision and monitoring of the objectives.

   Taking from the recommendations described throughout this document, the main areas where
   particular attention needs to be taken for the preparation of the upcoming loans are the following:

   · Bring the tax administration and legal defense components up to speed. It is important that the
       DIAN indicators are fully updated and disclosed through the website and that the policy
       definitions for legal defense of the state are made at the required level of specificity;

   · Ensure that the government's medium-term vision of tax reform is adequately captured. A clear
       vision of where tax policy is heading, at least through the end of the program, should be
       adequately described in upcoming loans.

   · Ensure that budgetary reform achieves a reduction in revenue earmarking. This is a key element
       of the program, and action in this regard should be part of the policy matrix of the final loan of
       the program.

   · Be sensitive to the political environment.        The Bank should track the political environment
       closely and take appropriate measures if the reform program or portions stall.

8. Additional Information ­ Government Evaluation of the Second Phase

   The government's evaluation of this second phase is attached as Annex II of this document.




                                                     13

                                               Annex I: Public Sector Fiscal Balances,
                                                  Scenario with Reforms (2001-2006)
Percent of GDP                                                                           2001       2002     2003obs       2004p      2005e   2006e
Total Revenues                                                                        29.61     29.59        31.20       31.10     31.00     30.30
 Current Revenues                                                                     29.61     29.59        31.20       31.10     31.00     30.30
   Tax Revenues                                                                       19.24     19.21        19.70       20.00     19.90     20.70
     of which: Reforms of Tax Policy and Administration    1                                                  0.73       1.96       2.68     2.86
   Non-Tax Revenues                                                                    10.4      10.4         11.5       11.1       11.1      9.6
   Property Income                                                                     1.31      0.89         1.10       1.00       1.20     0.70
   Operational Surplus of Public Enterprises                                           4.23      4.05         4.60       4.20       4.20     4.00
   Other                                                                               4.83      5.44         5.70       5.90       5.70     4.90
    of which: Public Asset Management     2                                                                   0.01       0.01       0.02     0.01
Total Expenditure and Net Lending                                                     33.30     33.67        34.10       33.60     33.00     31.90
  Current Expenditures                                                                24.94     25.34        25.50       26.40     25.80     25.00
    of which: Savings Due to Fiscal Responsibility Law                                                                   -0.20     -0.20     -0.20
    of which: Savings Due to Budget Reform                                                                                                   -1.50
   Wages and Salaries                                                                  7.52      7.50         7.50       7.49       7.20     7.37
  Goods and Services and Other                                                         3.50      3.40         3.30       3.40       3.40     2.80
   Interest                                                                            5.03      4.54         4.90       5.00       5.10     5.10
    External                                                                           2.27      2.11         2.20       2.00       2.00     2.30
    Internal                                                                           2.76      2.43         2.70       3.00       3.10     2.80
   Transfers to Private Sector                                                         9.79      9.71        10.00       10.90     10.60     9.59
     of which: Savings Due to Legal Defense of the State   3                                                  0.00       0.00      -0.05     -0.05
   Other                                                                              -0.91      0.19         -0.10      -0.40     -0.50     -0.10


  Capital Expenditure                                                                  8.27      8.09         8.60       7.20       7.20     6.90
     of which: Reform of Law 80 (for contracting) and on-line government                                      0.00       -0.20     -0.40     -0.40
     Fixed Capital Formation, cash basis                                               8.18      7.92         8.50       7.10       7.20     6.90
   Transfers                                                                           0.09      0.17         0.10       0.10       0.00     0.00
   Net Lending                                                                         0.09      0.06         0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00
   Statistical Discrepancy                                                             0.21      -0.08        -0.30      0.00       0.00     0.00


No financial public sector balance                                                    -3.48      -4.17        -3.20      -2.50     -2.00     -1.70
Quasi-fiscal balance                                                                   0.70      0.80         0.60       0.30       0.30     0.30
Fogafin balance                                                                        0.20      0.29         0.30       0.10       0.10     0.20
Net cost of financial restructuring                                                   -0.70      -0.58        -0.40      -0.40     -0.40     -0.40
Overall balance                                                                       -3.28      -3.65        -2.70      -2.50     -2.00     -1.60
     Additional investment projects  4                                                                                   -0.30
Overall Financing                                                                      3.20      3.65         2.70       2.80       2.00     1.60


Memorandum item:
Central Government Fiscal Balance                                                     -5.70      -6.30        -5.40      -5.60     -4.60     -4.20
NFPS Primary Balance, with reforms                                                     1.55      0.38         1.70       2.20       3.10     3.40
NFPS Primary Balance, no reforms                                                       1.55      0.38         0.96       0.73       0.86     0.98
Debt Stock                                                                            51.20     59.50        54.20       52.10     50.30     48.80

Source: Ministry of Finance, IMF and World Bank Estimates

1. Annual tax collection increases, on average, by about 2 percent of GDP in the 2003-2006 period as a result of increased tax compliance and
enforcement.

2. Annual income from improved management of public assets averages US$60 million in the 2003-2006 period.

3. Annual savings averaging US$400 million in the 2002-2005 period result from improved legal defense of the State.
4. The projects will be implemented only if privatizations proceeds materialize.




                                                                       14

               Annex II­Government Evaluation




SECOND FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ADJUSTMENT
                   LOAN (FIAL II)




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (ICR)




        REPORT OF THE GOVERNMENT
          (Translated from the original in Spanish)




                            15

In August 2002, the Colombian State was diagnosed as suffering from an over-designed
structure, with serious efficiency problems in the provision of public goods and services, and
mistrust from the general public.

In response to this, the National Government began a renewal process framed in a new results-
oriented, decentralized, and participatory culture in the civil service, through three strategies: i)
implementation of a new culture of public assets' management; ii) continuation with the
decentralization process and territorial development; and iii) strengthening citizen participation.

The Government that took office in August 2002 implemented a Civil Service Modernization
Program (PRAP, in Spanish) that includes measures to promote efficiency in the civil service
and fiscal responsibility and a plan to facilitate intergovernmental communications through an
on-line     service.     The     Government         has    also     reorganized       the   semipublic       oil  and
telecommunications companies and the Social Security Institute, and has dismissed the
redundant staff.

The Civil Service Modernization Program (PRAP), includes two types of reforms: vertical
reforms, to rationalize the functions and reshape the size of the State; and cross-sectional
reforms, aimed at modernizing public management practices and instruments in 12 major areas.3

To date, the vertical modernization actions undertaken have generated total savings of more than
$365 billion pesos, and the decisions that will become effective in 2006 will translate into
savings estimated at close to $656 billion pesos, according to the table below:

                        Job Posts                                2006 Projections            Executed (Reported by
                                                                                                      MHCP)
         STAFF                 Budgeted                                             8,339                       7,305
                               Budgeted vacancies                                   7,599                       3,050
             Service provision contracts                                            8,070                       7,065
TOTAL                                                                            24,008                        17,420

              SAVINGS (million pesos)                        2006 Projections                Executed (Reported by
                                                                                                      MHCP)
         STAFF                 Budgeted                                     $ 446,059                     $ 197,922
                               Budgeted vacancies                           $    91,911                   $    68,006
             Service provision contracts                                    $ 118,206                     $     99,665
TOTAL                                                                       $ 656,177                     $ 365,593

Among these measures, the divestiture of Telecom and its 13 Teleasociadas that, together with
the creation of the Colombia Telecommunications Company, made it possible for said entity to
generate revenues amounting to $804 billion in 2003. In the same year, operational profits
reached $457 billion and as of April 2004 the new entity had recorded profits of $312 billion,


3Cross-sectional reforms: public employment, asset management, legal management of the Nation, budgetary
system, results-based management, internal audit, electronic government, information systems, anti-paperwork
strategies, public contracting systems, regulatory rationalization; and regulation, supervision, and control.


                                                          16

exceeding the deficit generated by Telecom, before its demise, which was close to half a billion
pesos annually.
In this same group of actions, special mention should be made of the corporate breakup of the
Ecopetrol businesses and of the Social Security Institute--ISS, in addition to the divestiture of 4
entities of the agriculture sector to standardize the livestock policy into a new entity, Incoder, as
well as the merger of the Ministries of the Interior and Justice, Labor and Health, and Foreign
Trade and Development.

In the first quarter of the 2004 fiscal year, the executive branch and the EICE, without taking into
account the defense sector or the other branches of government, shows a real reduction of 15,5%
in the total execution of operating expenses with respect to the execution of the first quarter
2003. The breakdown of operating expenses in personnel expenses for the same period shows a
real reduction of 17,1% and a reduction of 13,8% in overhead costs.

As a complement to the structural adjustment actions, this administration has designed and
implemented a package of 12 reforms aimed at making public management more efficient,
known as cross-sectional reforms.

Some of these strategies have been included in the framework of the Programmatic Fiscal and
Institutional Structural Adjustment Loan (FIAL) signed with the World Bank. In this context, a
series of conditionalities were established to be carried out in 4 different tranches, whose
progress, for the second of them, will be subject of a brief evaluation in this document:

1. Management of the Public Sector Reform Process

Policy Objective: Promote policy and technical coordination for the successful application of
reforms within a framework of strengthened governance, accountability, and policy
sustainability.

The document CONPES 3248 was issued under this component where on the one hand the
strategies that were already being applied in the development of the Program were included and,
on the other, the lines of action for other aspects related to the PRAP were defined. This
document has become the basis for the development of the policy papers on the cross-sectional
strategies outlined there.

Thus the design of an evaluation scheme of the reform will make it possible to have up-to-date
information on the results and possible impact of the actions taken. In this regard it is innovative
for the country to have baselines and changes in strategic aspects that have been modified by the
State reform. This leads to well-informed decision-making, to learn about the effectiveness of the
interventions with respect to the pursued objectives, and to make more accurate changes in the
future, thus improving the effectiveness of management and of public spending. Progress in the
evaluation scheme is still incipient and requires constant political and budgetary support so that
its implementation leads to a permanent use of evaluation as part of the State reform programs.




                                                   17

2. Asset Management

Policy Objective: Increase the value of assets owned by the state, generate additional revenue by
liquidating those that are not directly linked to service delivery, reduce replacement and
restoration costs, and eliminate opportunities for corruption

The issuance of the CONPES 3251 made it possible for the Government to define the guidelines
related to asset management policy, leading to the creation of a culture of management that the
State did not previously have. Four principal strategies were established, as follows: i) the
institutionality that has made it possible for the entities to channel asset management within the
State and with the market, ii) the information system that allows the State to have a management
tool and in turn make an inventory and valuation of the real estate owned by the State, and to
rationalize the expenditure and management of real estate assets, iii) the standardization that has
made it possible to inventory all the State standards governing real estate management to
determine the regulatory requirements that lead to an efficient State management and, finally, iv)
the current mechanisms for the marketing of real estate and the requirements needed to make the
disposal of property more expeditious and efficient to diminish the unutilized assets of the State.

This conditionality has generated a culture of asset management within the State reflected in
income and savings that in a way contribute to the reduction of the fiscal gap.

3. Strengthening Public Sector Procurement

Policy Objective: Ensure that government purchases are transparent and efficient.

The conditionalities foreseen for the FIAL II within the component to strengthen public
procurement corresponded on the one hand to the issuance of a CONPES document that defined
a public policy for contracting that established the general principles recommended for
contractual management; the creation of a regulatory entity responsible for public contracting or
the assignment of such function to an existing agency; and the definition of a strategy for the
development and implementation of an electronic contracting system and, on the other hand, to
the presentation to the Congress of a proposed reform to the public contracting legal framework
that included the guidelines of the CONPES with regard to principles, the proposed creation of a
regulatory entity, and the introduction of economic considerations within the contractual process.

The first condition was met with the issuance of the CONPES 3249 ­ Public Contracting Policy
for a Managerial State document of October 20, 2003. In this regard it is necessary to point out
that the existence of the conditionality was fundamental in achieving consensus within the
Government about the content of the document, especially with regard to the creation of a new
institutional framework for public contracting through the creation of a regulatory entity with the
responsibility of recommending decisions and guidelines leading to the efficiency and
transparency of public procurement, as well as in the definition of the development and
implementation phases of the Comprehensive Electronic Contracting System.

Furthermore, the conditionality related to the presentation to the Congress of a reform of the
legal framework was satisfied with the presentation to the Congress of a reform proposal --No.



                                                 18

07, 2003-- containing each and all the main points included in the CONPES document. In
regard to the issues to be included within the project for purposes of complying with the
conditionality, a series of standards were developed aimed at pointing out general application
principles in the contractual activity of the State, designing tools and instruments for efficiency
in public procurement, and the National Council on Economic and Social Policy­CONPES was
assigned the responsibility of adopting the public procurement policies with the support of a
technical entity known as the National Procurement Committee.

The process of preparing the texts, both the Conpes document and the draft legislation, made it
possible to achieve a basic level of consensus on the need and desirability of the legal and
institutional reforms within different sectors (academia, political, civil society), with the support
of the results of various academic and technical consultancies carried out by the Project to
provide support to the proposed reforms. The result of this activity can be summarized in the
consensus building within the Government on the direction of the reform of public procurement.

Mention should also be made of the definition made by the CONPES document of the basis for
the modification of the institutional framework through the creation of a regulatory entity for
public procurement. Although it was initially proposed through the legal way, the difficulties
encountered in the discussion of the reform in Congress required the presentation of a new draft
legislation last July 20, and led the Government to explore other alternatives. The latter have
been consulted with regulators and have concluded in the viability and legal sustainability of its
creation through the utilization of the form of an intersectoral commission created through
decree, that in this particular case has initiated the process of obtaining the signatures and is
expected to conclude in the first half of October.

4. Defending the State against the Extraordinary Growth of Legal Claims

Policy Objective: Improve the capacity of the state to reduce and respond to legal claims and
diminish their fiscal cost.

The legal defense policy of the State against the number of demands against it, as well as the
approval of the CONPES 3250 document that includes the lines of action to improve the defense
of the legal and/or litigious interests of the Nation and the valuation of the contingent liabilities,
have been justified to the extent that they make and ensure over time the actions aimed at an
efficient and effective judicial and legal management of the Nation, with a view to diminishing
the apportionment of State finances.

This has had a significant impact, since it has succeeded in strengthening the positioning and
coordination of the issue, clearly defining the entities participating in the execution of the
Program contained in the CONPES 3250 document. This situation was evident in the up-to-date
collection of the litigious information (Presidential Directive 01 of 2004) in charge of the entities
comprising the national sector of the central and decentralized level.

The main achievements are the issuance of Presidential Directive 01 of 2004 on the report of the
litigious activity, passive contingent valuation and Single Information Format, that resulted in the
compilation of the litigious information of 90% of the national entities; the strengthening of the



                                                  19

policy related to the reconciliation between public entities: application of Presidential Directive
02, 2003; coordination of the defense in proceedings against the Nation exceeding a substantial
amount, the pre-design and implementation of the 1st and 2nd phase of the integrated computer
system to monitor and control the litigious activity; development of the management survey that
allowed a preliminary diagnosis on the totality of the entities and a pre-design of the Training
Plan.

Two points of the intervention of the FIAL Program on the subject should be highlighted: 1) the
technical support provided by the World Bank has been timely given the need to update the
baseline related to the current analysis of the litigious activity. However, the resources allocated
can only be used on certain subjects and for a sample of cases and entities, making it difficult to
move forward in the implementation of the program. 2) The indicators and conditionalities for
the next FIALs have not been updated, particularly the reduction percentages of claims against
the State, since the evaluation of the Program that is beginning to be implemented, is projected to
yield only long-term results, at least from 8 to 10 years.

It should be noted that the FIAL includes another series of measures that are not directly related
to the State reform but that in one way or another tend to generate a positive effect on the fiscal
and institutional restructuring processes that the Nation is carrying out at this time.

5. Management Contracts for Independent Agencies


Policy Objective: Enhance the efficiency and financial self-sufficiency of government agencies.


    a. National Learning Service (SENA)

As a part of the initiatives of the national government for the modernization and improvement of
the civil service, some inter-administrative agreements have been signed to serve as management
tools aimed at introducing incentives that promote better performance of the entities and greater
efficiency in the expenditure.

Within this framework, the National Planning Department, the Ministry of Social Protection, the
Ministry of Finance, and the SENA in October 2003 signed a Management Agreement whose
objective was to promote positive changes in the collection management of quasi-fiscal resources
and to increase the efficiency of the expenditure of the SENA. The foregoing implies the
expansion of coverage, greater access, and quality improvement of the services provided by the
entity.

The period defined for the implementation of the agreement was from July 1, 2003 through June
30, 2004. During this time the entity assumed the institutional effort to comply with the
commitments and goals agreed upon among the parties, in accordance with the formulation of its
Strategic Plan 2003­2006. Despite missing a small percentage of the collection to reach the goal
established in the Agreement, the results of the initiatives implemented by SENA were
remarkable with respect to expanding the income base, modifying its administrative structure
and improving the coverage of its programs.




                                                  20

The implementation of Decree 049 of 2004 modifying the structure of the personnel and Decree
050 of 2004 implementing the Staff Complement of the entity, contributed to the achievement of
the objectives included in the Agreement, among them, the change in the fixed costs and variable
costs ratio, the change in the project personnel and administrative personnel ratio, and the
increase in training hours.

One of the important aspects that should be highlighted that resulted from the signing of the
Agreement is the consolidation of the incubation process of an institutional culture of evaluation
and monitoring of the goals in strategic programs, in accordance with the initiatives of the
National Development Plan.

The report submitted by the entity relative to the second semester 2003 showed a delay in the
compliance of certain commitments that were closely related to the progress of the restructuring
of the entity, and that affected the results with regard to cost reduction, staff, and training hours
included in the Agreement.


However, the final report submitted in July 2004 revealed satisfactory compliance of the
majority of the management and results commitments made by the SENA that significantly
exceeded the established goals. However, two commitments were not met by narrow margins: 1)
collection of the income of quasi-fiscal resources reached 98.4% of the goal established for
2004; 2) coverage of the vacancies captured by the Employment Information System (EIS) was
48.6% compared with the established goal of 50%.

The reason given by the SENA concerning the lag in the collection of contributions with respect
to the goal at June 2004 in comparison with the 2003 period, is the reduction in the collection in
the regions of Caquetá, Magdalena, Casanare, Huila, Norte de Santander, Quindío, Tolima,
Guainía, Vaupés, Arauca, Vichada and Guaviare, which did not reach 40% of compliance, when
they should have been close to 48%.

Following the report of the entity, the associated work cooperatives, today in the increase, use
their legal status to perform employment intermediation, an activity that results in the evasion of
the quasi-fiscal contributions, among them those earmarked for the SENA. Moreover, the
reduction in employment in such regions decreases the value of the contributions that the
companies report for the collection.

In view of this situation, SENA, in coordination with the Ministry of Social Protection, is
designing control and regulation strategies for the associated cooperative movement to prevent
the evasion of quasi-fiscal contributions. Furthermore, the entity has made a commitment to
specifically monitor the management of the Tolima, Magdalena, Huila, and Quindío regions.

In the national arena, it is expected that the strengthening of the control and portfolio recovery
programs and the recent establishment and implementation of the coercive jurisdiction during
fiscal year 2004, evasion and dodging of contributions will be decreased to contribute to the
achievement of the stated collection goals.




                                                 21

On the other hand, within the most important reasons given by SENA for the 1.4% lag in the
average placement rate for the period June 2003 and June 2004 with regard to the set goal are:

   a. The overestimation of coverage expectations and the quality of the vacancies to be
      provided by the implementation of the Public Employment Service (SPE, in Spanish) in
      Intranet and Internet.

   b. The low profile of the people registered in the SPE vis-à-vis the vacancies offered.

   c. The lack of personnel in the majority of the Centers of Public Employment Service
      (CSPE), which prevents an optimal recording and monitoring of referrals and vacancies.

The following matrix shows the results of the different commitments undertaken within the
framework of the Administrative Management Agreement for the SENA:




                                              22

         COMMITMENT                  INDICATOR      GOAL at July GOAL at June  PROGRESS BETWEEN JULY 2003 & JUNE 2004
                                                     1, 2003    30, 2004


                                                                             Established goal exceeded.
  Increase training coverage
  Byb25% based on the total
        t    d                  Total students                               - EXECUTION AT JULY 2003.
  number of students under-     trained in                                   1.510.831 Students( Goal exceeded by 4% )
  taking training               Comprehensive        1.453.467    1.811.345  - EXECUTION JULY 2003 TO JULY 2004.
  (Vocational Training plus     Professional Train.                          2.714.076 Students. ( Goal exceeded by 49%).
  Supplementary Training).

                                                                             Established goal exceeded. (Goal exceeded
                                                                             by 107%).

                                                                             -     EXECUTION JULY-DECEMBER 2003:

  Train 40,000    youth thru    Total students in                            19.051 Students Enrolled (Seven Major Cities)
                                training with the
   the "Youth   In Action"      Youth in Action       19.000        40.000   -     EXECUTION JANUARY-JUNE 2004:
  Project.
                                Program                                      63.900 Students Enrolled (Rural Population).


                                                                             -     25.000 students in bidding process.
                                                                             li it
                                                                             Invitation 004/2004.
                                                                                    ió

                                                                             Established goal exceeded.

                                                                             Aproxímate ratio of Fixed Costs vs. Variable
                                                                             Costos:    70% Fixed Costs -30% Variable Costs.
                                                                             July 2002 and June 2003
                                                                             Fixed Costs: $203,511 million
                                                                             Variable Costs: $61,739 million
                                                                             Total Budget: $265,250 million

  Decrease                                                                   Ratio: 77% - 23%
             Fixed    Costs by  % decrease of           90%          80%     July 2003 and June 2004
  10%.                          Fixed Costs
                                                                             Fixed Costs: $213,674 million
                                                                             Variable Costs: $102,933 million
                                                                             Presupuesto Total: $316.608 millones
                                                                             Ratio: 67% - 33%
                                                                             Result of application of Decree 249 of January
                                                                             28, 2004 modifying SENA's structure.




                                                                              Established goal exceeded.


  Increase by                                                                           At July 2003:         55,382
               15%    number of Students in training
  students  iin  ttraining with with learning         52,354        60,207   Trainees with learning contract.

  learning contract.                                                               di j
                                contract.                                               At June 2004:         60,970

        di j                                                                 Trainees with learning contract.
                                                                                   di j

                                                                             Established goal was not achieved.

                                Coverage of the                              Vacancies captured between July 2003 & June 2004
  Increase by nine percentage Vacancies captured                             151,990 unemployed persons
  points the    Indicator of    by the Employment       41%          50%     and direct placements
  vacancies over the number Information System                               73,870 persons placed
  of placements.                (SIE) ­ placements/
                                vacancies                                    ratio placements/vacancies = 48,6% (Average
                                                                             July 2003 and June 2004)


   b. Colombian Family Welfare Institute (ICBF)

The ICBF through better financial management to increase the resources earmarked for the
health services programs for children and adolescents in their family context intends to expand
coverage with equity to children under 6, pre-adolescents, and adolescents, as well as the
development of evaluation instruments to qualify decision-making.

Taking into account the results of the evaluation of the agreement, showing achievement of the
goals proposed in the same by the ICBF, their impact is evident in:



                                                               23

   · Improvement of the capacity of collection of quasi-fiscal resources.
   · Definition of targeting criteria and guidelines for the different programs.
   · Increase in the coverage of beneficiaries.

Likewise, the goals achieved were:

   · Increase in the collection of quasi-fiscal resources: an increase of 105%.
   · Formulation of the policy to target municipalities and beneficiaries of the programs: an
      achievement of 127%.
   · Expansion of the child breakfast programs: an achievement of 107%.
   · Expansion of number of beneficiaries in juvenile and pre-juvenile clubs: the evaluation
      shows that as of June 30 that the goal was not achieved during that period, due to delays
      in contracting and cofinancing processes with the new territorial administrations. This
      will be accomplished in fiscal year 2004 to the extent resources are made available by the
      ICBF and ongoing contracting processes with territorial cofinancing: an achievement of
      75%.
   · Expansion of subsidies for seniors citizens: an achievement of 107%
   · Initiation of the construction process of new multiple households: an achievement of
      107%.
   · Progress was made in the evaluation of the Child Breakfasts and Family Welfare
      Community Households programs.




                                               24

                                                        ICBF- MPS- MHCP- DNP Management Agreement
                                                    Evaluation of compliance of ICBF Commitments - June 30, 2004

                                                  Baseline on July 1, Goal on June 30,                                          Remarks                    % compliance
        Commitment                Indicator           2003                      2004        Results atJune 2004

1. Increase the value of
the collection of
quasi-fiscal contributions Collection
        t d                                       $ 1,082,457,000,000 $1,127,902,326,670 $         1.183.636.327.981Established goal met and exceeded          105
                             f ti
of ICBF



                                                                                            1) Through Act No. 14  Goal achieved. Targeting of the
                                                                                            of July 22, 2003, the  Municipalities was made with the
2. Implementation of        1) Formalization of a                     1) Targeting policy   Executive Board of     Sisben base delivered by the DNP.
the targeting policy        targeting policy                          formulated.           the Institute approves        the program began its
fIn the municipalities where2) No. of municipal.
     li   ió                                              0           2) 300 municipalit.   the ICBF Targeting andSince
                                                                                                                   operation when the Sisben imple-            127 *
the new Sisben is           with applied                              with new Sisben       Evaluation Policy.     plementation process did not have
available
    é                       targeting                                 available and         2) Program is
                                                                      targeting applied.    implemented in 382     sufifcient coverage, targeting of

                                                                                            municipalities, with a beneficiaries was made with the
                                                                                                                   iInformation
                                                                                                                      f      ió  available in DNP at the time.
                                                                                            total of 322,052



3. Expansion of breakfast
coupons for children       No. of new breakfast                                                                    Established goal met and exceeded.
                            coupons                       0                  300.000                 322.052                                                   107
under 5




                                                                                                                   For the final evaluation (at June 30
4. Expansion of coupons                                                                                              2004), the Institute reports a total
in juvenile and pre-        % of expansion of           50.400                 18%                57,125 cupos     of 57,125 coupons equivalent to what        75 **
                            coupons
juvenile clubs                                                                                                     was executed by the regionals in
                                                                                                                   di h
                                                                                                                   such period. Goal not achieved.




5. Expand new subsidy
coupons for senior          No. of subsidies              0                  100.000                 107.035       Established goal met and exceeded.          107
citizens



                                                                                            To date four agreements
                                                                                            Have been signed to
                                                                                            start the contracting
                                                                                             and construction
6. Initiate construction of No. of multiple                           Initiate construction process of 17            Established goal met and exceeded.
new multiple homes          homes operating               0           of at least 20        multiple homes, 4 are                                              110
                                                                      multiple homes        operating since the
                                                                                            second semestre of
                                                                                            2003 and construction
                                                                                            of 1 is being
                                                                                            completed.




* The result is obtained based on the achievement of the goal of municipalities with applied targeting.
** 18% of the baseline amounts to a total of 9,072 spaces, 75% obtained is equivalent to 6,725, with 2,347 pending which are budgetarily
covered.




                                                                                    25

6. Development of Incentives for Efficiency Gains


Policy Objective: Ensure that spending for service delivery is realized with greater efficiency,
effectiveness and within budget constraints. A step toward elimination of transfer rigidity and
results-based management.


The objective of the modernization program of the certified departmental, district, and municipal
Secretariats of Education is to improve the management of the educational system. The major
efforts are aimed at providing technical assistance, with a view to delving further into the
decentralization process through the strengthening and modernization of local management.

The technical assistance programs support the formulation and execution of territorial
modernization plans to make it possible to advance in the following areas:

        Transparency in the investment and execution of operational and investment resources.

        Rationalization of physical resources (physical facilities, furniture, and staff), human
        resources (educators and administrators), and reorganization of the available supply to
        serve the demand of educational services.

        Redesign of critical project and development processes and implementation of the
        information system to support management.

        Definition of organizational, financing, and administrative structures.

        Definition and dissemination of the legal aspects related to the regulation of Law 715.

The objective of the Project is that 100 education secretariats modernize their management and
their organizations, with processes aimed at achieving their mission and with appropriate
information support systems. The foregoing so that the secretariats provide educational services
in an efficient fashion, with transparency and equity.

In addition, the Projects seeks the consolidation of the reorganization processes and the
strengthening of the Secretariats, so that they expand their capacity to support the educational
institutions under their responsibility and manage to meet the goals set by the three core elements
of the Educational Revolution: Coverage, Quality, and Efficiency.

The Impact of the goals achieved can become evident through better information management,
and greater efficiency and equity in resource allocation.

In this way with regard to the goals achieved, monitoring was carried out on the decentralization
process of the certified municipalities, with the application of an instrument to confirm
verification of the real and physical delivery of the elements of educational services. In addition,
Decree 2700 of 25 August 2004 was issued, which establishes the requirements and procedures



                                                 26

for the certification of the municipalities that at December 31, 2002, had less than one hundred
thousand inhabitants.

During the first semester of 2004, and based on these efforts, the Ministry contracted the
consultant firms that will support 36 Secretariats of Education in the development of the project
known as "Diagnostic, Design, and Implementation of Processes for the Modernization of the
Secretariats of Education."

It should be noted that by the end of the first semester of 2004, the design and diagnosis phase of
the project had been initiated in the Secretariats of Education of Medellín, Antioquia, Bolivar,
Caldas, Casanare, Cundinamarca, Pasto, Nariño, and Valle. It should also be pointed out that at
the end the first semester, the Secretariat of Education of Cartagena was in the design stage of
the macro processes.

In addition, during the first semester of 2004 the firm that will develop the project known as
"Diagnosis, Design and Implementation of Processes for the Modernization of Uncertified
Secretariats of Education, and Development of the Management Model of the Education Sector
in Uncertified Municipalities" was contracted. The fundamental objective of this consultancy is
to obtain a management model for uncertified municipalities that may be delivered as a reference
to the certified departments of the country.

It should be noted that this project would be initially implemented in the Secretariats of
Education of the municipalities of Ipiales (Nariño), Chía (Cundinamarca), and Sincelejo (Sucre).
Once the management model has been defined, its design will be implemented in the Secretariats
of Education of the municipalities of Uribia (Guajira), Caucasia (Antioquia), and Yopal
(Casanare).

Once this pilot study is completed, it is expected that the management model will be
implemented by the departmental secretariats of education and by the secretariats of education of
the uncertified municipalities.

In parallel to the development of the consultancies described above, the Ministry, through the
management and educational quality information component, worked in the definition and
development of certain complementary activities that seek to support the secretariats of
education in modernization processes (for example: connection and access to Internet service,
licensing of the Office suite, training in office automation and training in oversight of
procurement of hardware and software projects).

During the first semester of 2004 work was also carried out in the design of the documentary
management model for the secretariats of education of certified departments, districts, and
municipalities. To carry out this work, whose fundamental objective is to organize and
systematize the files of the work histories of the trainers, the corresponding merit competitions
were developed during the first semester. It is expected that the bidders selected through the
competitive bidding will be contracted during the second semester of the year.




                                                  27

Information System at the Departmental and Municipal Levels

    a.     Technological Infrastructure and Training

The installation and provision of last mile leasing services and corporate access to Internet was
performed for 39 Secretariats of Education and Certified Municipalities. Similarly, the
operational system Windows XP and the Office suite was provided and installed in the
workstations of 49 Secretariats of Education participating in the Modernization Project.

It should be noted, in addition, that during the first semester of 2004, training in Microsoft Office
tools, Outlook, Internet, and the XP Windows Operating System was contracted and given to 605
officials who manage key administrative processes in 29 Secretariats of Education of certified
territorial entities associated with the modernization project. The objective is to achieve 100%
coverage of all the Secretariats participating in the project, thus plans are underway to contract
the training for the remaining regions during the second semester of this year.

Training was also offered to 54 officials in charge of information technology in 32 secretariats of
education of departments and certified municipalities, in oversight processes for the procurement
contracts for workstations, servers, licensing of anti-virus software, and training in office
automation.

Finally, the International Competitive Bidding 07, 2003 is in process, whose objective is the
"Acquisition, Transportation, Installation, Implementation, and Maintenance of 388 workstations
and software licenses for Educational Management in the Secretariats of Education."

    b.     Applications

On this subject, payroll software was acquired and is in the implementation stage to support the
administration of this process in the following education secretariats: Arauca, Buenaventura,
Fusagasugá, Guajira, and Valle.

In addition, assistance was provided to the Secretariat of Education of Chocó in the creation of a
database to manage the enrollment information.

Finally, an invitation to prequalify was opened to contract the development of the software that
will make it possible to manage the enrollment process in the secretariats of education of
certified departments and municipalities. The corresponding contract is expected to be signed
during the second semester of 2004.

Resolution 277

Investment priorities with resources from Law 21 were defined in Resolution 277 of February
2003, to finance infrastructure projects and provide physical equipment to State educational
institutions that develop programs to expand coverage in academic secondary schools and/or
technical schools or to reconstruction, refurbishment or staffing projects of State educational
institutions that have been physically affected by violence or by natural disasters.



                                                  28

The Instructions and Guidelines manual was prepared and issued with guidelines for the
development and presentation of projects to be cofinanced with resources from Law 21, as well
as the procedures that should be followed by State educational institutions and territorial entities
in the execution of these resources.

It was established that the approved resources of Law 21 be allocated through inter-
administrative agreements executed between the MEN and the territorial entities, subject to
previous compliance with the eligibility criteria.

The defined eligibility criteria for territorial entities includes: (i) a guarantee that the projects will
sustainably increase educational coverage; (ii) demonstrate to MEN that they have adopted and
maintained reorganization schemes and optimization of sectoral financial, physical, and
personnel resources; (iii) commitment to cofinance the project; (iv) certify contributions
corresponding to Law 21 of 1982 --Industrial Schools and Technical Institutes-- in the fiscal
year immediately previous to the presentation of the project; (v) present project with Colombian
technical standards for the planning, design, and equipment of school facilities and environments
(Icontec standards), anti-seismic standards, and standards for persons with disabilities; (vi)
present the project through the respective Secretariat of Education of the certified department,
district, or municipality; and (vii) verify public ownership of the real estate where the educational
institution is located, through the presentation of the Certificate of Freedom and Tradition or Real
Estate Registry.

A methodology was developed to define the allocation of resources for education projects
financed with Law 21, focused on the poorer population. The criterion to allocate resources to the
territorial entities is proportionally to the increase in the number of children enrolled in the
educational system.

From Law 21 of 1982, $54,174 million pesos from fiscal year 2003 were earmarked for the
development of infrastructure projects (sanitary facilities and classrooms) and school equipment
(basic classroom furniture: chairs, desks, blackboards and tables for teachers), through 40 inter-
administrative agreements signed with the territorial entities. The execution of these resources
will be made during fiscal year 2004.

Three hundred and eleven projects that would benefit 110,559 students were approved as eligible
for financing.

The School Infrastructure Committee was established. Its fundamental objective is to facilitate
coordination among the participating entities to make more efficient the investment in
infrastructure with available national public, foreign, and private resources. The participating
entities are: Plan Padrino, Plan Colombia, International Migrations Organization (OIM, in
Spanish), National Royalties Fund, UNICEF, Ministry of National Education ­ through the
programs of Law 21/82, Improvement of Infrastructure, and Care of displaced and separated
populations.

The budgetary assignment of resources from Law 21 of 1982 for fiscal year 2004 is $53,000
million pesos.



                                                    29

The guidelines for projects to be financed with resources from Law 21 in fiscal year 2004 were
published in March 2004. Workshops on technical assistance were held, and the resources from
fiscal year 2004 were distributed among territorial educational entities, taking into account the
criteria for increases in the official enrollment of 2004 per reported territorial entity within the
framework of Resolution 166 of 2003, and the effort this increase represents vis-à-vis the 2003
official enrollment. Thus, to date $44,000 million have been distributed among the different
territorial entities.


7. Overall Fiscal Commitment


Policy Objective: The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is consistent with
the objectives of the program.


At the end of the third quarter of 2003, the Central Government had accumulated 63% of the
total deficit of the year. In addition, this deficit was consistent with the consolidated deficit of the
public sector for the year 2003 corresponding to 2.7% of the GDP which was below (by 0.1% of
GDP) from that agreed upon with the International Monetary Fund.


In the advisers Document 10/2003 of December 23, 2003 "Consolidated Public Sector, Third
Quarter of 2003 (Preliminary Closing)" of the Superior Council on Fiscal Policy­CONFIS, the
Fiscal Financial Statement of the Central National Government (number 1, page 6) points out
that:

"At the close of the third quarter of the current year, the cumulative deficit of the Central
National Government (CNG) reached $7,364 mm, 3.3% of the GDP. This deficit is the result of
the difference in revenues (cash and caused by $27,000 mm 12.1% of the GDP, and expenditures
of $34,364 mm, 15.4% of the GDP, accounted as the sum of total payments, net loan and
expenditures caused, within which the floating debt is included (table 3). According to the
review of the financial Plan for 2003, the CNG deficit of the full year should reach 4.6% of the
GDP, of which 70% was executed during the first nine months of the year.


8. Tax Reform


Policy Objectives: Increase tax revenues, improve tax neutrality and equity, reduce tax
expenditures.


In order to give complete application to Law 788 of 2002, the necessary regulatory decrees were
issued and are summarized as follows:

    1. Decree 100 of January 20, 2003: VAT in exchange operations. Article 486-1 of the Tax-
        Statute. (Article 41, Law 788 of 2002).




                                                     30

2. Decree 309 of February 11, 2003: Reconciliation and termination through mutual
    agreement of the tax administrative processes. (Articles 98 and 99, Law 788 of 2002).

3. Decree 414 of February 21, 2003: VAT on beers. Article 475 of the Tax Statute (Article
    62, Law 788 of 2002).

4. Decree 415 of February 21, 2003: Equity updating. (Article 80, Law 788 of 2002).

5. Decree 416 of February 21, 2003: Adjustments for inflation inventories. Article 338 of
    the Tax Statute (Article 21, Law 788 of 2002).

6. Decree 449 of February 27, 2003: Tax on Financial Movements. (Articles 45 to 48, Law
    788 of 2002).

7. Decree 450 of February 27, 2003: Interest rate moratorium for fiscal purposes. (Articles 3
    and 4, Law 788 of 2002).

8. Decree 522 of March 7, 2003: Sales tax on new goods and services taxed by Law 788 of
    2002.

9. Decree 694 of March 19, 2003: Registration period in the simplified sales tax system.
    (Articles 42 and 43, Law 788 of 2002).

10. Decree 779 of March 28, 2003: Tax treatment of housing Leasing. Article 207-2 number
    7 of the Tax Statute. (Article 18 number 7, Law 788 of 2002).

11. Decree 912 of April 11, 2003: Tax credit for water supply and sewerage companies.
    (Article 104, Law 788 of 2002).

12. Decree 953 of April 11, 2003: Elimination of VAT on imports made by highly exporting
    users ­ ALTEX and elimination of VAT for the national air transport service of
    passengers in areas where there is no organized land transport. Articles 428 letter g) and
    476 number 20 of the Tax Statute. (Articles 33 and 36, Law 788 of 2002).

13. Decree 1150 of May 8, 2003: Excise tax on liqueurs, wine, aperitifs, and similar.
    (Chapter V, Law 788 of 2002).

14. Decree 1242 of May 19, 2003: Obligation to present income declaration and
    supplementary for change of foreign investment holder. (Articles 326 and 327, Tax
    Statute).

15. Decree 1835 of July 2, 2003: It modifies decree 912 of 2003 on tax Credit for water
    supply and sewerage companies. (Article 104, Law 788 of 2002).

16. Decree 1915 of July 10, 2003: Regulation of Articles 817 and 840 of the Tax Statute.
    Article 8 of Law 788 of 2002, on Payment in kind.



                                            31

  17. Decree 1949 of July 14, 2003: Return of VAT to the producers of exempt goods. (Article
      477 of the Tax Statute).

  18. Decree 2755 of September 30, 2003: Regulation of Article 18 of Law 788 of 2002, on
      exempt income.

  19. Decree 3172 of November 7, 2003: Regulation of Article 158-2 of the Tax Statute on
      investments in control and improvement of the environment.

  20. Decree 3228 of November 11, 2003: Regulation of number 20 of Article 476 of the Tax
      Statute on air transport service exempted from VAT.

  21. Decree 540 of February 24, 2004: Regulation of Article 96 of Law 788 of 2002 on tax
      exemption, rates, and contributions for foreign government donations.

  In addition and in order to adjust the finances of the National Government it proposed a
  package of measures aimed at obtaining a larger collection and highlighting control on fiscal
  evasion to diminish the indices both with regard to sales tax and income tax.

  Such measures were approved in Law 863 of 2003. The central points of the reform are as
  follows:


INCOME TAX:

  1. Surcharge: 10% of net income tax.

  2. Equity tax: 0.3% of equity owned on January 1, 2004, for taxpayers with equity above
      $3,000,000,000.

  3. Fiscal profit elimination for certain non-constitutive income revenues nor occasional
      earnings and exempt income, which remain taxed with 100% of the tax.

  4. Liquid income per omission of assets or inclusion of nonexistent liabilities. Possibility of
      submitting income declaration for 2003 including omitted assets or excluding nonexistent
      liabilities and paying a penalty of 5% of said value for each year in which the equity was
      decreased.

  5. Special deduction of 30% for effective investments in productive real fixed assets.

  6. Increase of the reporting income tax contributor base for taxable year 2004 due to the
      reduction of the gross income limits (less than $60,000,000) and of gross equity (less than
      $80,000,000).

  7. Add the following requirements for not declaring:




                                              32

            · Credit card consumption below $50,000,000.
            · Banking consignments, deposits, or financial investments less than $80,000,000.
            · Purchases and consumption less than $50,000,000.

  8. Ignorance of costs or expenditures for payments made to people not registered in the
       common sales tax system, when payment is higher than $60,000,000.

SALES TAX:

  1. The treatment of seeds for planting is adjusted declaring them as exempt from the tax.

  2. Some goods or crops are taxed with 7% such as walnuts and almonds for milling, raw
        palm oil, cotton fiber, and the agricultural, horticultural, or forestry machines and
        artifacts.

  3. The return of 2 points from the VAT is established for purchases with credit or debit
        cards, of goods or services at the rate of 16% and from January 1, 2005, for the
        purchases of goods and services at a rate of 10%.

  4. Expansion of requirements to belong to the simplified system:

        · Gross equity less than $80,000,000.
        · Gross income of the activity less than $60,000,000
        · A trade facility, office, or site.
        · That the facility is not under franchise, concession, royalty or any other
            authorization.
        · That it is not located in a commercial center or within chain warehouses.
        · That they are not Customs users.
        · That banking consignments, deposits, or investments are not greater than
            $80,000,000.
        · That they have not held or hold sale contracts or delivery of services during the year
            above $60,000,000.

The first results of the measures taken are beginning to be seen as follows:

The established measures will:

  1. Eliminate fiscal benefits definitively beginning in taxable year 2004, for revenues non-
       constitutive of neither income nor occasional earnings and for exempt income, included
       in Law 788 of 2002, gradually.

  2. Increase in the collection of national taxes for VAT, income, GMF, and estate tax.

  3. Reduction of fiscal evasion.

  4. Expansion of income tax contributor base.


                                                33

   5. Reduction in the number of those responsible for the Simplified sales tax System upon
      increasing the requirements to belong to the same.

   6. Increase in the collection and reduction of processes in progress due to the measure of
      termination by mutual agreement and processes reconciliation, both in the jurisdictional
      and administrative forms, in customs and exchange tax matters.


   7. Achieve the formalization of certain sectors responsible of VAT.

TAX TO FINANCIAL MOVEMENTS

      The tax rate is increased by one point to financial transactions, remaining at 4 per 1,000
from January 1.

ANTI-EVASION PLAN:

   1. Reorganization of the RUT.

   2. Penalty for passive evasion: for those making payments to third parties and who do not
      relate the corresponding cost or expenditure.

   3. Presumptive income from banking consignments appearing under the name of third
      parties equivalent to 50% of the total value of the same.

   4. Lifting of the reserve in Customs matters.

   5. Reconciliation of process under administrative law: they pay 70% of the largest tax and
      reconcile 30% of tax, interest, penalties, and updating; if the process is at the second
      instance they reconcile 20% and pay 80%.

   6. Termination by mutual agreement: they pay 40% of the largest tax and reconcile 60% of
      the tax, interest, penalties, and updating.

   7. Transfer pricing: the standards of Law 788 of 2002 are adjusted, according to the
      pronouncements of the Constitutional Court for operations with foreign links.

   8. Extinction of ownership is established for land and water means of transportation that
      transport hydrocarbons and their smuggling byproducts.

      To date Law 863 of 2003 has been regulated with the following decrees:

   1. Decree 412 of February 12, 2004, regulation of Articles 38 and 39 of Law 863 of 2003 on
      reconciliation and termination by mutual agreement of the processes in the administrative
      law jurisdiction.




                                                34

   2. Decree 414 of February 12, 2004, regulation of Article 475 of the Tax Statute, on sales
      tax on beer.

   3. Decree 415 of February 12, 2004, regulation of Article 437-1 of the Tax Statute on
      withholding percentage of sales tax.

   4. Decree 425 of February 12, 2004, regulation of the temporary paragraph of Article 804 of
      the Tax Statute on priority on the application of payments.

   5. Decree 427 of February 12, 2004, regulation of letter d) of Article 420 of the Tax Statute
      on VAT in luck and chance games.

   6. Decree 428 of February 12, 2004, regulation of Article 850-1 of the Tax Statute, on the
      return of VAT due to purchases with credit and debit cards.

   7. Decree 497 of February 20, 2004, on interest rate moratorium.

   8. Decree 537 of February 24, 2004, regulation of Article 58 of Law 863 of 2003, on
      information that should be provide by public or private entities that have entered into
      cooperation agreements.

   9. Decree 618 of March 1, 2004, Regulation of Article 127-1 of the Tax Statute on
      operational leasing.

With respect to the impact of the reforms, these can be seen through the following table:

                                       Taxes Managed by the DIAN
                          RESULTS OF TAX REFORM LAW 788 OF 2002
                                                   (million pesos)
                     Concept                                               2003
                     Domestic                                                                1.482.87
                       Income                                                                   568.04
                         Payments                                                               418.1
                     .....Withholding                                                           149.9
                       Domestic VAT                                                             863.64
                         Declarations                                                           677.0
                         Withholding                                                            186.5
                      Stamp                                                                             0
                      Gmf                                                                        51.17
                     Foreign                                                                    146.99
                       Foreign VAT                                                              146.9
                       Tariff                                                                           0
                     Total                                                                   1.629.86
                     Source: DIAN, OEE, Fiscal Measurements Division. General Basic Assumptions of 10-04-03




                                                      35

9. Tax Administration.


Policy Objective: increase tax revenues, strengthen tax equity; reduce tax expenditure and
opportunities for corruption.


   a. Developed and implemented software to cross reference information with financial
        institutions to ensure that interest reported by them match interest reported by taxpayers.

For the DIAN it is a priority to have an appropriate methodology to obtain, process, and utilize
for tax control purposes the data related to the interest paid and/or received during a given
taxable period by the taxpayers.

The usefulness of performing automatic crossings with this information allows the DIAN to
identify differences between the information presented by the contributors and that reported by
the banks, so that subsequently the DIAN carries out specific tax control programs to confirm
and clarify the differences presented, and thus improves the quality of tax control and to
maximize the objective risk.

At present the information is submitted by the contributors in their tax declarations; the
respective information should be requested on a timely basis to the banks and other financial
entities.

With regard to the impact of the measures undertaken, the DIAN has a permanent methodology
that makes it possible to obtain, process, and adequately use the data related to the interest paid
and/or received during a given taxable period by the contributors to improve tax control.
With respect to the achievements reached, the implementation and development of the software
made it possible to detect 8679 non-filers who were reported to the corresponding
Administrations on December 29, 2003. As proof of these actions, the following cases were
detected:
   Depósito Central de Valores de Colombia DECEVAL Concept 10: 2545 cases
   Depósito Central de Valores de Colombia DECEVAL Concept 20: 4536 cases
   Stock and Investment Funds: 1083 cases
   Fiduciary Entities: 415 cases

   b. At least 50% of large taxpayers affected by the new taxes were audited.

With the issuance of Law 788 of 2002 important modifications of a substantive and procedural
nature were introduced in the standardization that regulates national taxes, including some
changes to the treatment of the local liqueur consumption tax.

Many of these modifications affect the Large Taxpayers, thus and with a view to preserving the
collection derived from correct compliance with the new legislation, it becomes necessary to
develop a control and verification system on the taxpayers that must contribute most of the
income expected from the aforementioned modifications.




                                                   36

In case the DIAN does not perform an inspection control on the correct application of the tax
standards introduced into the law, the entity runs the risk of losing credibility before the
taxpayers who do not comply correctly with their tax liabilities as required by law, which would
lead to the deterioration of the moral hazard to be controlled and penalized by the DIAN.

With the aim of counteracting the commented negative effect, the DIAN should, in the first
place, identify the provisions of Law 788 of 2002 that may have a special impact on large
contributors. Secondly, it should carry out a general control that uses indicators designed from
the same declarations presented by the contributors, through which relative compliance profiles
may be observed, so that in subsequent processes a more thorough analysis can be made on the
contributors whose relative or comparative compliance profile thus suggests it.

In the stages of detailed control exogenous information from suppliers and buyers will be
requested and even of aggregated data at the level of economic activity that can prove in the first
case and suggest in the second, a given economic and financial performance of the companies
under observation, then results are compared against their own performance. Thus, the impact of
the measures taken was the following:

    Moral hazard generation
    Audit and control of the major contributors who were included in the Law 788 of 2002
    Penalties for contributors who do not comply with their tax liabilities


With the implementation of the program developed for the audit of large contributors affected by
Law 788 of 2002, 302 sales tax cases were defined and a memorandum on the VAT program was
issued and sent to the large contributors with the respective attachment containing the
instructions for the revenue control and invoicing program.


With respect to the income tax of large taxpayers affected by Law 788 of 2002, the control
program on the surcharge was sent and the result was totally positive.

    c. Established and published indicators of the cost and time required for compliance by the
        taxpayer.

The lack of knowledge on the part of the DIAN about the administration cost per collected peso,
disaggregated by type of tax and taxpayer, the time taken by the taxpayers to comply with their
tax liabilities, is an obstacle for the implementation of schemes and objective evaluations on the
impact of the measures designed with a view to improving the service to taxpayers and users of
the entity.

Establishment of Indicators to Measure Costs and Times in Tax and Customs Processes.

The established indicators make it possible to detect how much it costs and how much time is
spend by taxpayers and Customs users in complying with their tax responsibilities; in addition,
the analysis and periodic evaluation of the same serves as feedback for decision-making in the
massive management processes and orientation of the service provided by the Entity.




                                                 37

It allowed a first approximation in methodologies to establish times and costs related to
compliance of tax and customs responsibilities since the country does not have studies on the
subject. This is planned so as to generate internal actions on the part of senior management of the
entity in order to make decisions aimed at improving the quality of the service provided to
taxpayers and Customs users, as well as to prepare proposals and recommendations at the
regulatory level.

Contact was also made with tax trade associations that encompass economic sectors such as the
industrial, commercial, and financial, and auxiliaries of the Customs service such as the
Colombian Federation of Freight Forwarders, Customs Brokers, and Warehouses (FITAC) to
exchange information.


Within the goals set for the Customs Administrations through the Assistant Director's Office of
Foreign Trade the reduction of times was established in the Customs service.


    d. At least 80 comprehensive audits have been carried out (Tax and Customs).

Law 223 of 1995 established the preparation of an Annual Plan by the DIAN whose main
objective was the reduction of tax evasion, smuggling, and exchange violations. The Tax Offices
and Customhouses presented to the MHCP the Comprehensive Plan Against Tax Evasion and
Smuggling for the period 2003-2006, aimed at setting up mechanisms that make it possible to
fight effectively against the scourges of tax evasion, avoidance, and smuggling. Comprehensive
activities were included in Memorandum No. 127 of February 18, 2003, signed by the Director
General and the Directors of Taxes, Customhouses, and Fiscal and Customs Police, with a
commitment from the entity to advance 500 TAC actions, within the Plan Operation Colombia
2003.

In addition, the TAC visits are mainly directed to comprehensive control and strengthening of
the institutional presence, seeking compliance on the part of taxpayers and Customs users of
their Customs tax and exchange obligations.

To achieve the TAC goals, through Memorandum No. 00193 of March 13, 2003, the goals to be
achieved in 2003 were distributed within 16 Customs and Tax Administrations.

The impact of these measures is clearly reflected in the following actions:

    Institutional presence.
    Compliance of the objective of carrying out joint visits by the three areas involved (Taxes,
    Customhouses and Exchange), achieving in turn management as an additional input to the
    commitment made, that is, to perform 500 TAC visits.
    Generation of a moral hazard in contributors and users of being controlled and a multiplier
    effect on the economic sectors where this style of control currently exercised by DIAN was
    made known.




                                                 38

    Contact with the contributor and user inspecting their operations as a whole, crossing tax
    information with customs and/or exchange information, which are directly related and affect
    each other.

For the year 2003, an achievement of the goal was achieved in 110%, corresponding to 550 visits
CAT, with the following result:

             AREA                        MANAGEMENT                    TOTAL AT DECEMBER
                                                                                   31
TAX                                Effective Management              $ 4,012,883,600
                                   Collection by Management          $ 1,896,456,842
                                   Proposed Management               $ 2,173,613,000
CUSTOMS                            Proposed Management               $ 139,749,833
                                   Collection by Management          $ 19,207,994
                                   Apprehensions                     $ 1,006,814,037
EXCHANGE                           Proposed Management               $ 487,982,273
                                   Direct Collection                 $ 30,428,232

In addition, other research is currently in progress that according with its development will
increase the management reported here.

10. Budget Management.


Policy objective: Convert the budget into a more effective tool for sound fiscal policy and
service delivery improvement.


On October 20, 2003, the CONPES 3252 Document on the Reform of the Organic Budget
Statute was approved. This document sets the position of the government around the major
points of the reform and became the basis of the justifications behind the draft legislation that
was presented to the Congress of the Republic on December 16, 2003.

The Presidential Message that accompanied the draft budget legislation 2004 contains important
progress in terms of budget transparency and communication. A reading of the same was
included in accordance with the purpose pursued by public spending, progress is been made
toward compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Law by including information on medium-
term fiscal sustainability, contingent liabilities, the fiscal cost of tax exemptions, a sensitivity
analysis of the budget to macroeconomic variables and a conversion between the Financial Plan
and the budget of the Nation. The status of the execution of fiscal year 2003 and the progress of
the execution to July 2004. Thus the impact of this policy is more information and transparency
for the citizens.




                                                 39

11. Fiscal Responsibility.


Policy Objective: Reduce fiscal imbalances.


The justification of the conditionality is clearly obvious on the need for medium and long-term
fiscal sustainability whose impact will be measured in the medium term and which is framed
within the Fiscal Framework presented to the Congress of the Republic last June 13, 2004.




                                                 40

