                                                 Documentof
                                               The WorldBank

                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                      ReportNo. 27068-CO




      INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                           PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA PROPOSED


     SECONDPROGRAMMATICFISCALAND INSTITUTIONALSTRUCTURAL
                                          ADJUSTMENTLOAN


                              INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$lSO MILLION


                                                      FOR


                                   THE REPUBLICOF COLOMBIA



                                               OCTOBER    23,2003




Colombia-Mexico Country ManagementUnit
Poverty Reduction and EconomicManagement Unit
LatinAmerica and the Caribbean Region



 This document has arestricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
 duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                REPUBLICOF COLOMBIA-FISCAL YEAR
                                                  January 1-December 31
                                           CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
                                                 (as of 20 February 2003)
                                                  CurrencyUnit      =     Peso
                                                 2,903.00 Pesos     =     US$1
                                                      0.92Euros     =     US$1

                                           WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                                       Metric System



  CAS           Country AssistanceStrategy                    IDF       InstitutionalDevelopmentFacility
  CFAA          CountryFinancialAccountability                JMF       IntemationalMonetaryFund
                Assessment                                    ISS      Instituto de SeguridadSocial(SocialSecurity
  CGN           ContadurfaGeneralde laNaci6n                           Institute)
                (Accountant General's Office)                 IVA      Impuestoa1Valor Agregado (Value-addedtax)
  CONFIS        Consejo Superior de PolfticaFiscal            LIL      LeamingandInnovationLoan
                (Superior Council of FiscalPolicy)            MAFP     Modemizaci6nde la AdministracidnFinanciera
  CONPES        ConsejoNacionalde Politica Econ6micay                  Pdblica(Public FinancialManagementProject)
                Social(NationalCouncil of Economicand         MDGs      MillenniumDevelopment Goals
                SocialPolicy)                                 MHCP      Ministerio de Hacienday Crkdito Pdblico (Ministry
  CPAR          Country ProcurementAssessmentReport                    of Financeand PublicCredit)
  CSR           Commission for State Reform                   MU       Ministerio del Interior y Justicia (Ministry of Interior
   DAFP         DepartamentoAdministrathodelaFunci6n                   andJustice)
                Pliblica (Public ServiceAdministrative        MTEF     MediumTermExpenditureFramework
                Department)                                   NFPS      Non-FinancialPublic Sector
   DIAN         Direcci6nde Impuestosy Aduanas                OBC      Organic BudgetCode
                Nacionales(NationalDirectorateof Taxes        PHRD     Policy andHumanResourcesDevelopment
                andCustoms)                                   PLaRSSAL ProgrammaticLaborReform and SocialSector
   DNP           DepartamentoNacionalde Planeach                        Adjustment Loan
                 (NationalPlanningDepartment)                 PRAP      Programade Renovaci6nde la Administracidn
   FIAL          ProgrammaticFiscaland Institutional                    Pdblica(Public Administration RenovationProgram)
                 Adjustment Loan                              SENA      ServicioNacionalde Aprendizaje (NationalTraining
   FNR           FondoNacionalde Regalias (National                     Service)
                Royalty Fund)                                 SIIF      SistemaIntegradode Informaci6nFinanciera
   FRL           FiscalResponsibilityLaw                                (IntegratedFinancialInformationSystem)
   GDP           Gross Domestic Product                       SINERGIA SistemaNacionalde Evaluaci6nde Resultados
   lBRD          IntemationalBank for Reconstructionand                 (EvaluationSystemfor Public Management)
                 Development                                  TAL      Technical AssistanceLoan
   ICBF          Instituto Colombian0deBienestarFamiliar      VAT       Value-addedTax
                 (ColombianFamily Welfare Institute)
   IDB           Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank




                                                                    IBRD
                                  Vice President:                             Davidde Ferranti
                                  Chief Economist:                            Guillermo Perry
                                  Director, LCSPR:                            ErnestoMay
                                  Sector Manager, LCSPS:                      RonaldE. Myers
                                  CountryDirector:                            IsabelM.Guerrero
                                  LeadEconomist:                              JoaquinA. Cottani
                                  Task Manager:                               Mario F.Sanginks
                                  Sr. Counsel andCountryLawyer:               EduardoBrito


This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of MessrsMmes. Del Villar, Leytbn, Mosqueira, Rojas, Sangin&, and
Solana (LCSPS), Gonzhlez and Webb (LCSPE), Romhn (LCOPR), and Uribe (Consultant).                 The team was led by Mr. Sanginks
(LCSPS) and worked under the general guidanceof Mr.RonaldMyers (Sector Manager, LCSPS), Mr. Ernesto May (Director, LCSPR),
andMrs.IsabelGuerrero(Director,LCClC).

                                                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                COLOMBIA

               SECONDPROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND I?NTITUTIONAL                       STRUCTURAL
                                      ADJUSTMENT LOAN(FIAL)

                                   LOANAND PROGRAM SUMMARY

           Borrower:         Republic of Colombia           1



           Implementipg       Ministry of Finance; NationalDepartment of Planning
           Agkncies:

           PovertyCategory:   Not Applicable

           Amount:            US$l50million

           Terms:             Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL) in US Dollars with semestral Payment Dates
                              for interest and commitment charges due on May 15 and November 15,
                              and with the following Amortization Schedule, during the life of the
                              Loan:
                                           PaymentDate               Installment
                                                                        Share
                                           15-NOV-2009                   10%
                                           15-NOV-2010                   10%
                                            15-NOV-2011                  10%
                                           15-NOV-2012                   10%
                                            15-NOV-2013                  10%
                                            15-NOV-2015                  10%
                                            15-NOV-2016                  10%
                                            15-NOV-2017                  10%
                                            15-NOV-2018                  10%
                                            15-NOV-2019                  10%

                              The Borrower also chose a grace period of 5.5 years and a total
                              repayment term of 16years. Further, the Borrower opted to keep all the
                              conversion options (currency conversions, interest rate conversions and
                              capskollars) in the Loan Agreement. For interest rate conversions, the
                              Borrower chose an Automatic Rate Fixing(ARF) every six (6) months.

            CommitmentFee:    0.85% on undisbursed loan balances for first four years and 0.75% on
                              undisbursedloan balancesthereafter.      ,



            Front-EndFee:     1% of the loanamount

            Objective:        The government's fiscal and institutional reform agenda is supported by
                              the Bank through the series of four single-tranche Fiscal and Institutional
                              Adjustment Loans (FIAL). The objectives of this series of loans are two:
                              first, to promote reforms addressing fiscal rigidities necessary to attain
                              the substantial fiscal adjustment underlying sustainable macroeconomic
                              stability; and second, to improve the provision of public services and

This document has a restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed

                       establish the institutional basis for higher efficiency and accountability in
                       public expenditure.
                       The specific objectives of the FIAL program are to: (i)        increase tax
                       revenue and reduce distortions in the tax system; (ii)    modernize the tax
                       administration; (iii)promote the development of a sound fiscal
                       responsibility legal framework; (iv) reduce losses and generate revenues
                       through improved asset management; (v) prevent massive losses to the
                       State from judicial claims; (vi) improve budget management with
                       modem tools and legal reforms; (vii) develop incentives for efficiency
                       gains in subnational entities; (viii) strengthen the public sector
                       procurement system; (ix) improve performance through management
                       contracts for agencies; and (x) support a coherent and comprehensive
                       reform implementation process.

Description:           This secondloan of the programwill focus on the followingelements: (i)
                       issuance of all legislation to regulate the application of the tax reform
                       law; (ii) further improvements in tax administration, including specific
                       audit targets and the implementation of integrated tax-customs audits;
                       (iii)approval of an official budget reform strategy; (iv) Congressional
                       approval of an improved 2004 Annual Budget Law; (v) presentation to
                       popular vote of the Constitutional referendum; (vi) issuance of a new
                       policy for legal defense of the state; (vii) presentation to Congress of
                       reforms to the public procurement law; (viii) approval of an official asset
                       managementpolicy and the achievement of specific revenue targets; (ix)
                       signature of management contracts with two government agencies; and
                       (x) enactment of a Fiscal Responsibility Law.

Benefits:              The key benefits expected from the program are: (i)       an average annual
                       contribution to total fiscal revenues of 1.4 percent of GDP from 2003 to
                       2006; (ii)an average annual contribution to a reduction in current
                       expenditures of 1.6 percent of GDP from 2003 to 2006: (iii)       increased
                       reliability and transparency in medium-term fiscal planning and a
                       framework for more realistic budgeting: (iv) a public expenditure system
                       more closely linked to results; (v) improved targeting of public
                       expenditure toward public policy priorities; (vi) a more transparent,
                       simpler, and institutionally robust system of public sector procurement;
                       and (vii) a more efficient andcost-effective use of the assets of the public
                       sector.    These achievements would translate directly into fiscal
                       sustainability, improved quality and coverage of public services, and
                       improved governance and transparency.
Risks:                 The most important risks faced by the program are: (i)        the challenges
                       faced by the government stemming from the overall political context, in
                       particular the internal conflict and violence associated with illegal drug
                       activity, which could negatively impact the continued implementation of
                       the program; (ii)   possible attempts at derailing the reform process by
                       special interest groups affected by it; (iii)the weakening of the
                       government's overall policy agenda by the non-approval of the
                       Referendum; and (iv) the deterioration of the fiscal and macroeconomic
                       environment.
Project Identification Number: PO83905

                                      REPUBLICOFCOLOMBIA
  SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FISCALAND INSTITUTIONALSTRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
                                                   LOAN       (FIAL 11)

                                         Table of Contents

I INTRODUCTION
 .                              ..................................................................................................         2
I1.  CONTEXT OFTHE OPERATION                                   .....................................................................       2
                                                                         ............................................................2
  B. FISCAL ANDIr\iSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
  A. RELEVANTSOCIOECONOMIC                      BACKGROUND
                                                           .........................................................................5
I11 THEGOVERNMENT'S REFORMPROGRAM                                                                                                          8
I V THE FISCALAND INSTITUTIONALREFORMPROGRAM
  ..                                                                                    ..............................................
                                                                                                                    ...................... 9
  A. OVERVIEW ...............................................................................................................
  B. COMPONENTS OF THEPROGRAM                         ...........................................................................          9
                                                                                                                                           17

V .  THE SECONDFISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FIAL 11)                         ...............................................................................          34
  A. LOAN                        ...............................................................................................
  B. FIDUCIARY POLICIES
           DESCRIPTION             .............................................................................................           34

  C. ENVIRONMENTAL                                                                                                                         36
                                                                                                                                           36
  D. BENEFITS   ...............................................................................................................
                             ASPECTS         ....................................................................................
                                                                                                                                           37
  E. RISKS .....................................................................................................................
  F. SOCIALIMPACTOFTHEREFORMS                          ..........................................................................          39
                                                                                                                                           40

  ANNEX I LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY TO THEWORLDBANK
  ANNEX 11 INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUNDRELATIONS NOTE
         ..                                                                                                      .......................43

  ANNEX 111 POLICY MATRIX                                                                                                                  56
  ANNEX IV COLOMBIA AT GLANCE
           ..                                                                                            ..............................54
                                        ........................................................................................
                                                    .............................................................................          69


          FiscalDeficit 1994-2002 ........................................................................................
                                                          Figures
Figure 1.                                                                                                                                  4
Figure 2.                                                                                                                                   4
Figure 3. Timeline of ChangesinTax Policy..........................................................................
          Colombian Debt Spreads .........................................................................................

Figure4.  Accumulated Fiscal Cost of Contingent Liabilities Against the State .....................                                        18
                                                                                                                                           25



Table 1.
Table 2.  ExpectedAggregate Impact of the FIALReforms ..................................................
          Division of Responsibility for ProgramComponents ..............................................                                  10
                                                                                                                                           15
Table 3.                                                                                                                                   16
          Key Measuresofthe 2002 Tax Reform (Law 788) .................................................
          Sources of TechnicalAssistance for FIALProgram................................................
Table 4.                                                                                                                                   19
Table 5.                                                                                                                                   20
Table 6.  Tax Revenue. FirstSemesterComparison. 2002-2003 ...........................................
                                                                                                                                           34
Table 7.  Reforms Supported by the FIAL .............................................................................
          Public Sector FiscalBalances, Scenario with Reforms (2001-2006) ......................                                           38


            INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
     PROGRAMDOCUMENT A PROPOSED
                       INSTITUTIONALLOANFISCAL
                                FOR                  SECOND PROGRAMMATIC                  AND
                                        STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
                                  TO THE REPUBLICOF COLOMBIA


                                     I. INTRODUCTION


1.      Colombia, a country of 43 million inhabitants with a history of sustained
economic growth and fiscal stability, reached the end of last decade with an almost
unprecedented economic contraction and high levels of civil unrest. Facing a difficult
fiscal outlook and popular disappointment with the peaceprocess, President Alvaro Uribe
took office in August 2002 on a platform of restoring security, fighting corruption, and
delivering sustained economic growth. In its first year the Uribe administration has
embarked on a path of fiscal prudence, ambitious public sector reform, and determination
to end the 40-year armedstruggle that makes Colombia one of the most unsafe countries
inthe hemisphere.'
2.      The backbone of the public sector reform process i s the Progruma de Renovacio'n
de Zu Administrucio'n Pu'bZicu (PRAP), led by the National Planning Department (DNP)
and based upon Presidential Directive 10 of October 2002. This program has so-called
"vertical" reforms, which are basically sector- or entity-specific institutional restructuring
actions that seek to reduce excess public sector employment and enhance quality and
cost-effectiveness of public services; and "horizontal" reforms, which encompass cross-
sector issues of public administration, such as asset management, procurement, and
others.   This modernization effort is coupled with substantial reforms in fiscal
management, led by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP). These include a
substantive tax reform, amajor overhaul of the tax administration, budget reform, andthe
enactment of fiscal responsibility regulations. Together, these measures add up to a
broad package meant to lay the foundations for improved service delivery and sustained
fiscal balance.
3.      During the second semester of 2002, the government agreed with the multilateral
banks that the public sector reform process would be supported by structural adjustment
loans from both the International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment (IBRD) and
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The Bank focused on the issue of fiscal
rigiditiesthat make the implementation of public policy extremely difficult, bothfromthe
revenue perspective and through the achievement of efficiency gains in the "horizontal"
elements of the reform process. The IDB, on the other hand, focused its adjustment
lendingon the "vertical" elements of reform, and some horizontalelements not covered
by the Bank, and is also preparing an investment operation to support the policy reforms.
4.      On March 18, 2003, the Bank approved the first Fiscal and Institutional
Adjustment Loan (FIAL) to supp`ort the government's reform efforts. This first single-
tranche structural adjustment loan, in an amount of US$300 million, laid out the


  The approval rating of the current administration has remained high. The latest polls indicate that 70
percentof Colombianshavea favorable imageof the President, and hisjob approval rating is 64 percent.

principles of a programmatic operation that would total an estimated US$900 million and
would conclude inFY 2006. This programhas two objectives: First, to promote reforms
addressingfiscal rigidities necessary to attain the substantial fiscal adjustment underlying
sustainable macroeconomic stability; and second, to improve the provision of public
services and establish the institutional basis for higher efficiency and accountability in
public expenditure. The focus of the reform program will gradually shift from tax and
fiscal responsibility at the beginning, to expenditure and public expenditure reform in the
later stages.
5.      This Program Document presents the second loan of the FIAL program (FIAL 11)
for an amount of US$lSO million in a single tranche. Each of the loans in the FIAL
program has a particular thrust within the overall scope of the reform; while FIAL Iwas
heavily weighted toward tax policy as the initial and most urgent effort toward fiscal
sustainability, the primary emphasis of the proposed FIAL I1i s on establishing the legal
and normative framework of the key elements of public sector reform, including
procurement, royalty transfers, and fiscal responsibility, and the implementation of
management contracts with two government agencies and the definition of the budget
reform strategy.     FIAL I11 is expected to focus mainly on the results of the tax
administration efforts, the operation of a framework of legal defense of the State, new
asset management legislation, and the effective implementation of the mandates of the
procurement and fiscal responsibility laws. The fourth and final FIAL IV will emphasize
the full implementation of the tax reform, the enactment of the budget reform, the
expansion o f the management contracts scheme, additional performance management
tools, and the overall evaluation of the reformprocess.
6.      As shown later in this document, progress in the reform program has been
satisfactory, andthere havebeensignificant accomplishments derived from the first FIAL
loan. Most notably, the government has enacted a substantial tax reform package that i s
expectedto yield an additional 1percent of GDP inrevenue this calendar year, as well as
the initial steps of several key initiatives of public sector reform. The FIAL IIloan is
well synchronized with the accomplishments to date, and sets the stage for further
reforms duringthe remaining three years of this government's administration.

                        11.    CONTEXT OFTHE OPERATION


A. RELEVANT     SOCIOECONOMIC     BACKGROUND

7.      Macroeconomic Performance. During 1998-2002, the economy suffered from
stagnation, but today confidence inthe economy i s slowly returning, as signs of recovery
and growth continue. The economy grew by 3.3 percent in the first semester of 2003,
which i s the biggest gain inGDP in five years, and i s expected to grow by about 2.5 to 3
percent this calendar year and by 3 to 3.5 percent in 2004. Although the unemployment
rate fell from 16percent inthe first quarter of 2003 to 14 percentin the second quarter of
the same year, it remains to be seen whether the economy i s now firmly established on a
path of growth and stability. Total investment now stands at about 14 percent of GDP,
with private investment under 6 percent, which will not sustain significant growth. While



                                                                                          2

government consumption grew by two thirds between 1994 and 2002, household
consumption remained basically unchanged. Inflation declined in 2002, assisted by
sluggishdemand, and was about 6 percent, andi s expectedto be about the same in2003.
8.      Colombia's exports increased in the first semester of 2003 relative to the same
semester in 2002. This increase can be explained mostly by carbon exports. While the
country's nontraditionalexports, mainly manufactured goods and cut flowers, performed
well in recent years and now amount to over half of total merchandise exports, the
appreciation of the peso and the economic slowdown in the United States, Venezuela,
and other Andean countries affected them negatively in the first semester of 2003.
Increasing imports have, however, maintained a deficit in the trade balance. The total
external current account had a deficit of about 2.1 percent of GDP inthe first semester of
2003.
9.      Fiscal Performance. Over the past half-decade, new realities have emerged in
Colombia's fiscal domain, including significant deficits and large future fiscal liabilities.
The rapid expansion of the public sector over the previous decade, from spending one-
fourthof GDP in 1990to over one-third of GDP today, combined with growing pension
and other liabilities, has led to significant and persistent structural deficits. As public
spending rapidly outstripped the sector's revenue-generating capacity, much of the fiscal
deficit was financed with debt, both domestic and external. Today, total public sector
debt in Colombia is over 50 percent of GDP. The deficit of the consolidated public
sector for 2002 was 3.6 percent of GDP, largely due to election-year spending, higher
military outlays, and a weakening of the social security institutions.          For security
spending, the current administration estimates that it will need an additional 1percent of
GDP per year.
10.     Nevertheless, the Uribe Administration has stressed its commitment to continue
the fiscal adjustment efforts of the previous administration. On December 20, 2002,
Congress approved a strong tax package estimated to increase tax collections by close to
1 percent of GDP in 2003 and rising in the next two years. The fiscal deficit for the
Combined Public Sector i s expected to come down to 2.5 percent of GDP in 2003 and
about 2.3 percent in 2004.       As a precaution, the Government requested a Stand-By
Agreement from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The first review of the Stand-
By Arrangement was satisfactorily completedon June 11, 2003. All performance criteria
and structural benchmarksfor end-2002 and end-March2003 havebeen met.
11.     Congress passed two key structural reforms: a pension reform (Law 797, January
2003) to address the looming deficits of the social security sector, Colombia's largest
future fiscal liability, and a labor reform to increase flexibility in Colombia's rigid labor
market. An overhaul of the public administration sector i s well underway. Additionally,
Telecom was liquidated and Cajanal and Caprecom were massively reformed. In June
2003, the Government of Colombia (GOC) was finally successful in passing through
Congress a reform of the Znstituto de Seguridad Social (Social Security Institute, ISS),
which includes the separation of health service provision and financing. In late June
Congressapproveda fiscal responsibility law.




                                                                                           3

                                     Figure 1:FiscalDeficit 1994-2002
                                                       (Percentage of GDP)



                      40%

                                                                                                                      23




                           Source: Superior Council for FiscalPolicy (CONFIS).



12.     The External Environment. Colombia's vulnerability to external shocks has
seen some recovery in recent months.                                     Although its sovereign debt spreads have
improved since the beginning of the year in absolute terms and relative to the emerging
market average, Colombia is still vulnerable given the uncertainty about the future of the
internal conflict; the passage of the referendum; the problems in Venezuela (the largest
market for Colombia's nontraditional exports); and the outlook for the U.S. economy,
Colombia's main trading partner. Nonetheless, given its floating exchange rate, falling
inflation, and adequate international reserves, Colombia should be well equipped to deal
with moderate external shocks as it undertakes the fiscal adjustment supported by the
proposedprogram.


          Figure 2: Colombian Debt Spreads (EMBICOL vs EMBI+)




             818,2002  011912002  ,11112882  ,21,,12002  t11012003  3,1912011 112412003  biii210,  1118,2003 *oI$1*eoP


                 Source: Ministry of Financeand Public Credit.




                                                                                                                            4

13.    Poverty. In Colombia, there has been a close positive correlation among fiscal
balance, growth, and poverty reduction. During periods of positive growth (and fiscal
balance), Colombia enjoyed substantial declines in poverty (even though inequality
increased).    Specifically, from 1988 to 1995, as GDP grew on average at about 4.2
percent per year, poverty rates declined from about 65 to 60 percent of the population.
This reduction, and the government's efforts that helped achieve it, were completely
wiped out by the 1998-99 recession. Poverty levels today are not substantially different
from what they were in the late 1980s. Although unemployment has dropped from
around 15.7 percent last year to 14percent during the second quarter of 2003, it i s yet not
clear whether the economy has stabilized to sustain this level. Put differently, the
evidence suggests that sustainable growth and fiscal balance have been Colombia's best
social safety net. A fiscal balance programthat increases revenue andmakes expenditure
more efficient, and within prudent limits, i s a sine qua non for Colombia's attaining the
humandevelopment Millennium Development Goals(MDGs).
14.     Insecurity and Violence. Colombia has captured headlines around the world for
its alarming indexes of violence. Since the 1980s, the multidimensional problem of
violence has become more widespread andis exacting an increasing economic and social
toll. From 1999 to 2002, the number of attacks on petroleum infrastructure increased by
160 percent, on electric infrastructure by 680 percent, and kidnappings by 126 percent
over the average o f the previous 13 years. It i s estimated that the conflict reduces the
annual economic growth rate by at least 2 percent. The conflict places the country in a
particularly vulnerable and difficult position; its repercussions for the economy and the
overwhelming social demand for its settlement make peace the paramount priority of the
government's      public policy agenda.'               As crucial complements                 to the direct
counterinsurgency measures, the government recognizes the need to sustain fiscal
balances and improvethe quality and efficiency of public services.
15.     In his 2003 report to Congress delivered on July 20, President Uribe presented
encouraging signs that the government's strategy on democratic security i s yielding
positive results. During the first semester of 2003 there were 24 violent attacks on
populations, the lowest in 10 years and just over one-third of the number for the first
semester of 2002; attacks on economic infrastructure are down 58 percent over the same
period, and homicides declined by 21percent and kidnappings by 34.2 percent. Although
there i s still significant uncertainty over the evolution of the armed conflict, and
paramount challenges still remain ahead, the statistics for the first half of 2003 could
show the beginning of a reversal in the trend towardincreased violence that began in the
late 1990s.


B. FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONALISSUES

16.     The fundamental issue that constrains the effective implementation of public
policy in Colombia i s the inability of the Government to access the necessary budgetary
resources to attend policy priorities. Regardless of the political commitment to promote

'Ithas been estimated, for instance, that war-related additional public expenditures w i l l reach 1.5 percent
of GDP by 2006.


                                                                                                              5

peace and development, there i s little that can be done without resources. Budgetary
shortfalls are clearly not uncommon; fiscal adjustment i s a worldwide reality. However,
the nature of the Colombian fiscal imbalance is particularly complex due to the interplay
of insufficient tax revenue, inefficient and rigid expenditure, and the lack of an adequate
legal framework for fiscal responsibility.
17.     Some of the key issues that make up the spectrum of constraints to effective
public policy that were faced by the incomingUribe administration inAugust 2002 are:
18.     Insufficient Resources for the Implementation of Public Policy.                     The
Colombian Central Government tax burdenhas hovered under 20 percent of GDP for the
last few years,2 which was insufficient to undertake the ambitious government agenda,
and substantial reforms in both tax policy and administration were required. A Bank-
supportedtax reform law enactedin December 2002 significantly broadened the tax base
and reduced a number of exemptions. It has already had visible impact on the revenues
in the first semester of 2003, although the Constitutional Court challenged some key
elements scheduled to go into effect in2005. Tax administration measures are underway
with support from the Bank, but most of the challenges in this area still lie ahead and
involve efficient information usage, improved auditing, and a revision of bylaws and
regulations.
19.     Lack of a Fiscal ResponsibilityFramework. Many countries inthe regionhave
increased the odds of fiscal sustainability by approving laws that establish certain basic
fiscal responsibility guidelines. These guidelines pertain to matters such as debt ceilings,
subnational borrowing, medium-term fiscal planning, and reporting and accountability.
The lack of such framework at the national level in Colombia made it difficult to align
expenditures to within affordable and sustainable limits. In June 2003, the government
enacted the Fiscal Responsibility Law, which i s one of the key benchmarks under the
FIALprogram.
20.      Inefficient use of Public Assets.           The Colombian public sector lacks the
institutional and legal framework to appropriately identify, assess, value, regularize the
titling, and if necessary dispose of assets-particularly        real estate-that  are part of its
capital stock. Not only are unnecessary expenditures generated when assets cannot be
easily transferred from one activity to another, but a potential source of capital revenue i s
not realized when assets unrelated to public policy priorities cannot be sold. Not having
the appropriate mechanisms for asset management costs the public sector hundreds of
millions of U.S.dollars.
21,      Inordinate Growth of Liabilities against the State. Although reliable estimates
still do not exist, contingent liabilities to the State that arise from legal action could reach
as much as 2 percent of GDP if current trends continue. The legal claims that generate
such massive losses to the State have varied origins, including labor or administrative
disputes, but the most significant source are contracts in areas such as concessions or
public works that have gone into arbitration. Significant efforts need to be invested to
strengthen the public sector's capacity to defend itself, in parallel to an overhaul of the
administrative processes(such as procurement) that leadto poorly designed contracts.


* Source: Directorate of National Taxes and Customs (DIAN).


                                                                                                6

22.     Inadequate Budgeting.          The Colombian budgeting system i s plagued by
numerous structural problems that are unquestionably key contributors to the difficulties
in policy implementation, such as (a) the large number of legally mandated expenditure
entitlements eliminates the fiscal space needed to accommodate revenue shock or
changes in expenditure priorities; (b) a budget structure that is incompatible with
economic, functional, or performance analyses; (c) a Ministry of Finance with limited
authority to regulate public expenditure aggregates;             (d) complex institutional
arrangements that in effect divide the budget process into separate current expenditure
and investment processes; (e) budgetingdefinitions that do not fall under internationally
accepted standards; (0 a lack of instruments to develop a medium-term vision of fiscal
policy; and (g) a lack of substantial evaluation of public expenditure results, among
others.
23.     Inefficient  System of Royalty Transfers. The Constitution establishes a rigid
system of royalty transfers through the National Royalty Fund (FNR) that does not
promote efficiency intheir use. Inorder to obtain higher value-for-money in some of the
key areas to which the royalties are directed, such as education, it is important to improve
the targeting mechanismsvia constitutional reform if necessaryinorder to achieve higher
impact from limitedresources.
24.     Complex and Ineffective Public Procurement System. There i s a high fiscal
cost associatedwith an inadequate public procurement system. Not only are the costs of
government contracts higher than they would otherwise be, but poorly designed contracts
(intentionally or not) find their way directly into litigation and generate large liabilities
for the State. The Colombian procurement system is not only ineffective in overseeing
potentially conflictive contracts, but is also plagued with complexities that raise the cost
to biddersand cloud an effective application of modemprocurement principles.
25.     Lack of Incentives for Performance. The Colombian budget system does not
have adequatemechanisms to promote performance at the agency level. Furthermore, the
administrative regulations (such as human resource management) are fairly rigid and
make it difficult for public sector managers to be empowered with more flexibility.
Under this scenario, it is difficult to have a serious system of performance evaluation that
carries real consequences for both the agency and the government.                 Within an
environment of severe fiscal constraints, it i s imperative to develop instruments to
promote enhancedperformance inthe short term.
26.     Past Government Responses. All recent governments have attempted to reverse
these negative trends. However, the responses primarily addressed revenue and were
partially ineffective with respect to the expenditure side, that is, reform of the public
sector. To attempt to deal with excessive spending, previous administrations had
launched several public sector reform programs. Yet these initiatives4uring 1992 and
1994, during 1998 and 1999, and in 200O-did not fully reach their desired outcomes.
The limited success of these past reforms was primarily due to (a) some reforms,
especially those between 1998 and 1999-though            explicitly focused on expenditure
reduction-faced    legal or political obstacles; and (b) other reforms were not primarily
targetedto expenditurereduction or to effectively tackle the innerroots of rigidgrowth in
fiscal transfers or legal claims against the State. After these attempts at reform, the



                                                                                           7

Colombian public sector still requires a significant effort to reduce inefficiencies, align
responsibilities, foster transparency, and improve management and accountability.



                  111. THEGOVERNMENT'S             REFORMPROGRAM


27.     General Framework: The Estado Comunitario and the Future of the
Colombian Public Sector. The idea of Estudo Comuniturio lies at the heart of this
government's public sector reform program. The Estudo Comuniturio is a set of basic
reform guidelines put together and demonstrated in practice by President Uribe at the
time he was governor of the department of Antioquia, perhaps the most developed
intermediate-level administration in Colombia.       Already elaborated and announced
during President Uribe's campaign, the concept of Estudo Comuniturio inspired criteria
for the selection of entry points and impact evaluation of public sector reform under the
current administration. Although still evolving as a guiding concept of public sector
reform, the Estudo Comuniturio incorporatesand adapts to Colombia a number of widely
accepted, contemporary principles of public sector reform that will guide the renovation
of the Colombian public sector under the current administration.
28.     The concept of the Estudo Comuniturio i s the foundation of the National
Development Plan2002-2006. The fundamental principle underlying the concept is that
the State should exist for the service of its citizens and not for the benefit of special
interests. The Estudo Comuniturio involves civil society in the attainment of social
objectives; it i s a modern State where scarce resources are invested wisely and
efficiently; and it i s a decentralized State that stands for regional autonomy with
transparency, political responsibility, and community participation.
29.     The National Development Plan proposes the development of the Estudo
Comunitario through four basic pillars:

  0     Democratic Security. The Statemust provide security andprotection to all
        Colombians, without political, ideological, religious, or socioeconomic
        distinctions.
  0     SustainableDevelopment and Employment. Economic growth stagnated during
        the last few years and unemployment has grown by around 10percent since 1999.
        The Statemustprovide the conditions to recover the pathto economic growth.
  0     Social Equity. The State must ensure that the fruits of economic growth are
        enjoyed by all Colombians.
  e     Renovationof the State. The Statemust modernize its administrationand reform
        intergovernmental relations. The ultimate goal is to builda managerial,
        participatory, anddecentralized public sector.
30.     The Estado Comunitario and the Fiscal and Institutional Reform Program.
The fundamental purpose of the Fiscal and Institutional Reform Program is to liberate
resourcesfor the effective implementation of public policy and to generate efficiency and
transparency gains that will contribute to fiscal sustainability and the improvement of
service delivery. Inthis sense, the Programis a necessary condition for the attainment of


                                                                                          8

the goals of the National Development Plan as described above. Democratic Security
hinges upon the availability of untied fiscal resources, within a framework of
macroeconomic stability, to invest in restoring peace to the country; Sustainable
Development requires a sound macroeconomic framework and effective fiscal policy;
Social Equity requires ability to deliver improved services to the poor and increase their
ability to benefit from economic growth; and the Renovation ofthe State clearly entails
efficiency and transparency gains and the necessaryinstitutional strengthening actions to
deliver more andbetter public services inafiscally sustainableway. The reformprogram
designed to implement this vision involves a wide array of constitutional, legal, and
administrative measures that, together, represent the most significant reform effort since
the Constitutionof 1991.3
31.      Concept and Structure of the Public Sector Reform Program. The core of the
reforms is contained in two reform packages known as the Tax Reform and the
Renovation of Public Administration.                These two packages are framed within and
supplemented by other government reforms in such a way that the magnitude and
expected impact of the former cannot be adequately grasped without reference to the
latter. The program i s both coherent with and strengthened by the constitutional and
legal reforms courageously undertaken by the current administration, involving apopular
referendum scheduled for October 2003, a resubmission of a constitutional reform that
was struck down by the Senate in July 2003, a pension reform, the reform of the Central
Government structure, and a fiscal responsibility law enacted in June 2003. All these
reforms have significant fiscal implications and should establish the necessary basis for
Colombia's political reconstruction and economic recovery.

           Iv.       THEFISCAL INSTITUTIONALREFORMPROGRAM
                                       AND


A.       OVERVIEW

32.      Objectives of the Program. The Fiscal and Institutional Reform Program i s
supported by the Bank through the series of four single-tranche Fiscal and Institutional
Adjustment Loans (FIAL). The Bank approved the first loan of the program in March
2003 for an amount of US$300 million out of an estimated total of US$900 million for
the entire program.          This program has two objectives: first, to promote reforms
addressingfiscal rigidities necessary to attain the substantial fiscal adjustment underlying
sustainable macroeconomic stability; and second, to improve the provision of public
services and establish the institutional basis for higher efficiency and accountability in
public expenditure. The focus of the reform program will gradually shift from tax and
fiscal responsibility at the beginning, to expenditure and public expenditure reformin the
later stages.



 World Bank projects are supporting these reformefforts through a combined package of structural reform
projects that include overall rationalization o f public expenditures (including pension and social security
expenditures), labor reform, tax reform and tax administration, financial reform, and improvement of
health, education, and family services.


                                                                                                          9

33.     The specific objectives of the FIALprogram are to:
        Increase tax revenueand reducedistortions inthe tax system;
        Modernize the tax administration;
         Promote the developmentof a soundfiscal responsibility legal framework;
         Reducelosses and generaterevenuesthrough improvedasset management;
         Prevent massivelosses to the State fromjudicial claims;
         Improve budgetmanagementwith moderntools and legal reforms;
         Develop incentives for efficiency gains insubnational entities;
         Strengthenthe public sector procurementsystem;
         Improve performance through management contracts for agencies; and
         Support acoherent andcomprehensivereformimplementation process.
34.      Table 1describes the expected aggregate results of the reforms supported by the
FIALprogram.

                Table 1: Expected AggregateResultsof theFIALReforms
                   Objective                  I                      ExpectedResalt
Promotereforms addressingfiscal rigidities     1    Average annual contribution to total fiscal revenuesof
necessary to attain the substantialfiscal           1.4 percent of GDP from 2003 to 2006;
adjustmentunderlying sustainable                0   Average annualcontribution to a reduction in current
macroeconomic stability.                            expenditures of 1.6 percentof GDP from 2003 to
                                                    2006.4
                                                0   Increasedreliability and transparency in medium-term

                                              I     fiscal planningand a framework for more realistic
                                                    budgetinn.
Improve the provision of public services and        A public expenditure system more closely linked to
establishthe institutional basis for higher         results;
efficiency and accountability in public         0   Improved targeting of public expenditure toward
expenditure.                                        public policy priorities;
                                                0   A more transparent, simpler, and institutionally robust
                                                    systemof public sector procurement;
                                                0   More efficient and cost-effective use of the assets of
                                                    the Dubk sector.


35.      Achievements under FIAL I.FIAL Isupported a successful package of reform
measures, including (a) enactment of a tax reform law; (b) implementation of important
tax administration measures such as increased withholding at the source and improved
information exchange with banks; (c) enactment of a law authorizing a Constitutional
referendum that, among other things, reforms the royalty transfer system; (d) enactment
of Law 790 that strengthens the Ministry of Interior and Justice's Directorate of Judicial
Defense; (e) issuance of Decree 2170 improving the public procurement system; (f)



 Includingthe overall effect of the referendum. Without the referendum this average is approximately 0.7
percent per year for the same period. Additionally, some Bank data not yet reviewed with the Government
were usedfor the estimate of the impact on expenditures.


                                                                                                         10

creation of a commission for asset management; and (g) selection of two pilot agencies
for the implementation of a managementcontracts scheme.
36.        Changes in the FIAL Program Since the Approval of FIAL I.The program
has not undergone substantial changes since the approval of the first operation. The
structure of the program and both the general and specific objectives remain unchanged,
although the policy matrix has undergone a process of clarification and streamlining
while still fully reflecting the scope of the reform program. On the contrary, the matrix
has been strengthened by the establishment of specific quantitative targets in some
components that in most cases go beyond those established originally, and reflect the
strongpace of the reformprogram ledby the Government.
37.        Of the subset of prior actions for FIAL I1that have been defined as a trigger^"^ in
the FIAL Idocument, there have been three components where the sequence and
measurement of the reforms have beenchanged:

     0     Budget Reform. The original FIAL matrix called for the presentation of the
           Organic Budget Code to Congress as for FIAL 11. However, the political
           environment surrounding the .referendum, coupled with the potentially
           controversial nature of the Code (primarily because it seeks to reduce politically
           attractive permanent expenditure entitlements and revenue earmarks), has forced
           the government to take a more cautious and deliberate process of presentation of
           the bill to Congress. This will now take place before FIAL 111goes to the Board,
           while the approval of a policy document outlining the elements of budgetary
           reform will be approved for FIALI1and the Organic Budget Code approved for
           FIALIV.

     0     Tax Administration. The original FIAL matrix called for the operation of an
           integrated tdcustoms taxpayer current account system for the largest taxpayers
           during 2003. However, DIAN adopted a new information technology strategy
           during this year that calls for the development of a platform that will provide
           integrated accounts for all taxpayers, but which will not be ready untilmid-2004.
           This new strategy is being supported and partially financed through the Bank-
           financed Public Financial Management Project I1 (MAFP 11). Therefore, the
           original policy action has been removed from FIAL I1and introduced into FIAL
           111withabroadercoverage.

     0     Asset Management. The original FIAL matrix used revenue targets to measure
           the progress of the asset management program. Following expert advice, the
           program now measures this with both institutional development indicators and
           coverage in terms of assets by the asset management system, while the revenue
           targets havebeendiscarded.



  The triggers definedfor this operation are a subset of the policy matrix and are prior actions that needto
be fulfilled for the approvalof this loan by the Bank. They have beenidentifiedas the key elementsof the
reform process and serve as guidepostsof the progressof the program. As part of the prior actions, these
triggers are includedinthe loan agreement and are part of the package of policy measuresthat sustainthe
loan. As this is not standard practice in programmatic lending, specialauthorization was received fromthe
LegalDepartment.


                                                                                                           11

38.     Expected Results under FIAL 11. The measures supported by FIAL I1are
expectedto yield important results, including (a) issuance of all legislation to regulate the
application of the tax reform law; (b) further improvements in tax administration,
including specific audit targets and the implementation of integrated tax-customs audits;
(c) approval of an official budget reform strategy; (d) Congressional approval of an
improved 2004 Annual Budget Law; (e) presentation to popular vote of the Constitutional
referendum; (0issuanceof a new policy for legal defense of the state; (g) presentation to
Congress of reforms to the public procurement law; (h) approval of an official asset
management policy and the achievement of specific revenue targets; (i)                      signature of
management contracts with two government agencies; and (i) enactment of a Fiscal
Responsibility Law.
39.     ForeseenResultsof FIAL I11and IV. FIAL I11is expected to focus primarily
on the following key policy actions: (a) achievement of specific targets of the tax reform;
(b) unification of taxpayer accounts; (c) presentation of the Organic Budget Code to
Congress; (d) full implementation of revisedroyalty transfer scheme; (e) establishment of
the institutional arrangements of the procurement system; (f) evaluation of the pilot
management contract scheme; and (g) full implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility
Law. FIAL IV will focus on actual results from the tax policy and administration
measures and the approval of the Organic Budget Code, implementation of medium-term
budgeting, extension of the management contract scheme,                            and the effective
implementation of the procurement, fiscal responsibility, asset management, and legal
defensepolicies.
40.     OverallAssessment ofthe Reforms. The Government has shownahighlevel of
commitment and resiliency in pursuing the objectives of the reform, which i s largely
based upon the President's campaign platform and his initial presidential directives for
public sector modernization.6 During the first year of the Uribe Administration, the
executive has worked with Congress for the enactment of over 100 laws, including major
reforms in tax policy, pensions, labor, fiscal responsibility, and most important, the
approval to present a referendum to the population with significant measures for fiscal
sustainability and reduction inthe levels of corr~ption.~
41.     The tax reform supported by FIAL I(and its full regulation by FIAL 11) has
shown important results and statistics show that revenue has increased according to
expectations. Nonetheless, the government is still considering further measures to raise
revenue while observing international best practices in tax policy. To complement the
tax reform and as a prelude to the upcomingbudget reform, Congress approved the Fiscal
Responsibility Law, which sets out important principles for fiscal sustainability and
transparency. Expenditure-side reforms of the kind supported by the FIAL are more
complex and some of them show results only inthe mediumor long term; however, some
indicators that show that the reform process i s on track are the following: (i)                      The


  On July 26th,President Uribe held his first live, televised cabinet meeting where the Ministers presented
reports on their accomplishments to date. Most of the objectives of the FIAL, notably in taxation,
budgeting, procurement, and fiscal responsibility, were explained and discussedat length.
  The Constitutional Court recently ruled that most of the questions in the referendum are constitutional,
including all related to the FIAL. Shortly afterward, the Government set the date of October 25" for the
vote.


                                                                                                        12

government has taken the overhaul of its budgeting system very seriously and has
obtained assistance from the Bank, the IMF, and other entities in the design of a new
budget law; (ii)   The 2004 Budget Bill was submitted to Congress and approved
incorporating substantial improvements in terms of medium-term planning and the
provision of useful information for fiscal analysis; (iii)
                                                        Strategies have been defined and
institutional arrangements established to oversee areas such as asset management, legal
defense of the state, and public sector procurement; (iv) A novel management system is
being piloted to enhance accountability for results; and (v) A referendumto consult the
population on key issues involving fiscal, political, and institutional issues has been
scheduledfor October 25.
42.     The FIAL Program within the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Under its objective of achieving fast and sustainable growth, the CAS approved in
December 2002 indicates that, "The mainobjective of the IBRD'sstrategy interms of the
macroeconomic framework would be to support Colombia's continued fiscal adjustment,
including the quality of the adjustment, as key for achieving faster and sustainable
growth. To support this, the IBRD, inclose collaboration with the IMF and the IDB, will
prepare a Programmatic series of Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loans (total
US$900 million) to support fiscal adjustment, including reforming the tax system,
strengthening the tax administration, implementing a fiscal responsibility law and
reforming the public sector." The CAS scheduled the first loan of the program for FY03
in the amount of US$300 million, followed by two loans of US$l50 million each in
FY04 and FY05, and a final US$300 million loan inFY06.
43.     Linkage between the Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment
Program and other Bank Operations and Activities. The proposed Programmatic
series of Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loans to support public sector reform and
fiscal adjustment i s the core of the Bank's support to the reform efforts of the
government, and will provide the basis upon which complementary policy-based
operations will be developed. These include support to the financial sector inthe form of
Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loans (FY03 and FY04) that aims to promote
the development of a well-functioning financial system that can provide adequate
services to all segments of the productive sector and the population at large. Inaddition,
building on the achievements of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FYOO), it w i l l
address the remaining agenda to ensure the health and financial sustainability of the
banking system and to foster capital markets development.
44.     The anticipated Sustainable Development Sector Adjustment Loan (FY05) w i l l
support the mainstreaming of the environment in practically all infrastructure sectors,
includingwater and sanitation, energy, transport, and disaster management. The tools for
mainstreaming environment include policy setting, strategic environmental assessments,
land use planning @lanes de ordenamiento territorial), permits and licensing,
environmental regulation, economic and fiscal instruments, social impact analysis and
valuation, assessment and linkage with global environmental goals, participation and
conflict-resolution mechanisms, anddevelopment of sector-environment indicators linked
to health impacts. These tools are currently being used in most sectors, however, this
operation aims to enhance effectiveness and impact by providing a more rational




                                                                                       13

application based on priority-setting and institutional analysis (how the environmental
management institutions set priorities, receivebudgets, and function).
45.     The FIALprogram shares some areas of mutual interest with the Programmatic
Labor Reform and Social Sector Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL) approved by the Bank
during the second quarter of FY2004. The task teams have worked in coordination, and
the two main areas of interaction are (a) Management Contracts for Government
Agencies. Bothprograms seek to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Colombian
Family Welfare Institute (ICBF) and the National Training Service (SENA). The FIAL
approaches t h i s issue through the creation of a new instrument for improving
management that can then be replicated to other entities and sectors. PLaRSSAL, on the
other hand, is concerned with the substantive impact of the managerial reforms on quality
and coverage of service delivery.8 (b) Incentives for Efficiency Gains.                  This FIAL
component has the objective of introducing incentives that promote the use of results-
based management to improve efficiency and effectiveness of fiscal transfers to the
subnational levels, particularly in the education sector, and will support the presentation
of the referendum to popular vote which includes a provision to assign 56 percent of the
National Royalty Fundto education projects exclusively to increase school attendance in
vulnerable groups. Other quantitative and qualitative sector-specific outcomes and
indicators are considered inthe PLaRSSAL.
46.     In addition, the FIAL program is highly interrelated with the current Public
Financial Management Project II (MAFPII), aimed at strengthening budgeting, tax
administration, public investment management, procurement, and results management.
This Bank-financed Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), in implementation since August
2001, i s the most important source of technical assistancefunding for the implementation
of the FIAL policy actions. Although it was approved before the FIAL discussions
began, its objectives are fully consistent with the FIAL policy matrix. The components
that are within its scope and are receiving assistance are tax policy, tax administration,
budgeting, and procurement. Support for management contracts for government agencies
and the monitoring of the overall reform process also fall within its scope, and technical
assistancewill be made available shortly.
47.     Complementaritieswith other Institutions'Operations. The IDB is preparing
an investment operation of approximately US$18.3 million, designed to support the
implementation of the overall reform program and specific support to asset management,
legal defense of the State, and information technology. Both task teams are working in
close coordination since the IDB's components of asset management and legal defense of
the state will support and be consistent with the FIAL's policy matrix. This loan is
expectedto go to the IDB's Boardof Directors duringthe last quarter of 2003.
48.     InstitutionalAssessment. The FIALprogram is being executedby the Ministry
of Finance (MHCP) with the support of the National Planning Department (DNP).
MHCP will ensure the full execution of the policy measures and "triggers" established in
the program. These activities will be carried out inclose coordination with DNP.



 In other words, the FIAL is concerned with the success of the "instrument," whereas the PLaRSSAL is
concernedwith the "substance" of the reformsinICBFand SENA.


                                                                                                14

49.     Given the size and relative complexity of the program, the General Vice-Minister
of Finance, working closely with the Deputy Director of DNP, will be responsible for the
strategic management of the program. These two agencies have the consensus-building
capacity and political, technical, and operational support required to assume this
responsibility. Both are part of CONFIS, participate actively in Congressional debates
and Cabinet meetings, and serve as counterparts to the IMF and other multilateral
agencies as representatives of the Finance Minister andthe Director of DNP. In addition,
the Vice-Minister of Finance and the Deputy Director of DNP are responsible for the
execution of MAFP-TI[ and its respective institutions.          They will be capable o f
establishing synergies and synchronizing the parallel development of MAFP-11 and
FIAL-II.
50.     The strategic management of the program will involve the following actions: (a)
being the interlocutor of the national government with the Bank; (b) supporting and
managing the fulfillment of the policy actions of the various program components; (c)
coordinating the development of the planned actions and reforms with those responsible
within the various entities; and (d) compiling and sending the technical, legal, and
administrative information required for the execution o f the policy measures of the
program.
51.     To assume the responsibility of coordination and follow-up of FIAL-11,an inter-
ministerial working group has been established within MHCP, comprising all agencies
and entities involved in the program, including MHCP, DNP, the Ministry of Social
Protection, the Ministry of Justice and the Interior, SENA, and ICBF.           Each of these
entities has designated one high-level professional as a representative to this inter-
ministerial working group, and as the one directly responsible for program components.
Table 2 outlines how responsibility for each of the program components has been
divided.




                                                and ICBF
 Legal Defenseof the State                      Ministry of Justice andInterior (Vice-Minister)
 Public Sector Procurement                      DNPLegalAdvisory Group
 Asset Management                               DNPLnfrastructure Department
 Public Sector Reform                           DNPPublic Administration ReformProgram
 Monitoring and Evaluation of State Reform      DNP/SINERGIA andMHCP/CONFIS
 FiscalResoonsibilitv Law                       MHCPRechnical Vice-Minister


52.     For the development of the duties required for the strategic management of the
program, the Vice-Minister of Finance has the support of expert professionals within the
Superior Council of Fiscal Policy (CONFIS) and within the general directorates o f
Macroeconomic Policy, Taxes and Customs (DUN), Public Credit, Budget, and the
Treasury. For the development of the duties that correspond to DNP, DNP has the



                                                                                              15

support of valuable professionalsin the directorates of the Public Administration Reform
Program, Infrastructure, Social Development, Justice and Defense, External Credit, and
Results Evaluation.
53.     As part of the planned measures in FIAL-11, the government has developed a
system for monitoring and evaluating state reform, and has announced monitoring
indicators for public sector reform progress on the DNP website. The DNP, through the
Evaluation System for Public Management (SINERGIA) (for components of Asset
Management, Legal Defense of the State, Procurement, Management Contracts, and
Management of the Reform Process) and MHCPKONFIS (for components of Tax
Reform, Tax Administration, Fiscal Responsibility, Budget Reform, Incentives for
Efficiency Gains, and Management of the Reform) will follow up and evaluate results of
FIAL-II. The results of FIAL-I1will comprise part of the findings of the government's
National Development Plan for 2002-2006. The government has the mandate to follow
up in terms of effectiveness, productivity, and efficacy, and the results of the follow-up
and evaluation will be reportedto the Bank by meansof periodic reports.
54.     Technical Assistance. Many of the technical assistance requirements of several
key components-particularly     tax administration, budgeting, and procurement-as     well
as the financial management or evaluation features of other components, will be partially
or fully provided by the MAFPII project, currently in execution.          In addition, the
Government and the IDB are considering includingtechnical assistance support for other
FIAL components-particularly      asset management and legal protection of the State-
under an IDB-TAL project currently under preparation. Moreover, the GOC and the
Bank are exploring complimentary grant financing through Institutional Development
Facilities (IDFs) or Policy andHumanResourcesDevelopment grants (PHRD) to support
the reform process. Table 3 summarizes the technical assistancearrangements.


            Table 3: Sourcesof Technical Assistancefor the M A L Program
          Component                        Source(s)                        status
Tax Reform                    tIMAFPI1(IBRD)                     IIInexecution




55.     Fiscal Commitments. Within its macroeconomic framework, the government
signed a new Stand-By loan with the IMF in the amount of SDR1.5 billion for the next
two years (see Annex 11-Fund Relations Note). Achieving the structural benchmarks of


                                                                                        16

the agreement will constitute an overarching policy condition for the FIAL. Some of the
targets of the IMF-backed program for 2003 are a Combined Public Sector deficit of 2.5
percent of GDP, a current account deficit of 0.8 percent of GDP, and an inflation rate
between 5 and 6 percent.
56.      Although fiscal performance has remained within the framework of the IMF
agreement through the first semester, there i s widespread expectation that the year-end
deficit will b e above 2.5 percent of GDP. This will be fueled by several factors, among
them the seasonality of expenditures and a supplemental budget to be considered by
Congress that includes unforeseen debt payment obligations, pensions, a n d the cost of the
referendum. An IMF mission will review the progress in the agreement during the last
week of October.


B. COMPONENTSOFTHEPROGRAM

57.      Tax Policy. Colombia gets its fiscal revenue from three main sources-oil
royalties, customs duties, anddomestic taxes. The value of oil revenues depends largely
on world market factors beyond the government's control, although there i s scope for
reform of how these revenues are allocated and shared between different levels of
government.'        Customs revenues have generally declined over recent years, with trade
liberalization, andthis trend shouldcontinue for the sake of economic development. The
main opportunity for increasing revenues comes from domestic taxation, which i s also an
important area for reducingeconomic distortions and administrative complexities.




  For the last 15 years the value o f oil revenues has also suffered from attacks on the pipelines.


                                                                                                     17

                        Figure 3: Timeline of Changes inTax Policy

                                        Total Income 1990-2002
                                               (`76 GDP)

           16


           14


       ::  12
       n
           10




            6

            4 1     ,    ,                                      ,                    1
               1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002

                                                 Year

58.    Previous rounds of tax reform, particularly in 1974and 1986, left the country with
a fundamentally sound array of taxes at the national level-on    value added, corporate,
and personalincome. The two aspects of the income tax are largely integrated by
exempting dividends from taxation as personalincome and giving all corporate forms
equal tax treatment. Prior to 2003, capital gains were not taxed at the individual level,
which hadthe advantageof avoiding double taxation of retained earnings (matching the
non-taxation of distributedearnings and further integrating the business and individual
tax systems), buthadthe disadvantageof reducing revenue and offering opportunities for
tax avoidance through schemes to convert current income into capital gains.
59.     Aside from the major reforms, however, the tax laws have suffered frequent
changes that reduced revenue collection and introduced distortions by granting
preferential treatment to special interests or, alternatively, increased revenue and
intensified distortions by raising the rates on activities already being taxed. Figure 3
shows the recent timeline of changes in tax policy and revenue.             Now, the new
government of Colombia has an electoral mandate to raise more tax revenue, and the
challenge is to do so ina way that reducesprivileges anddistortions.
60.     Key Policy Actions Undertaken. The enactment of Tax Reform Law 788 in
December 2002 brought together some of the key policy actions geared to the
modernization of Colombian tax policy. This law (a) eliminates exemptions and expands
the tax base for the value-addedtax; (b) establishes a new ceiling on the wage exemption
for the personal income tax, and reduces incentives for non-taxed compensation to
employees; and (c) phases out the corporate income tax exemption for capital gains from
sales of stock, mutual funds, and real estate, and for profits from previously privileged
corporate forms, contracts, funds, or bonds. On a tax-by-tax basis, the 2002 tax reform
included the measuresshown inTable 4.




                                                                                         18

                       4. Key Measuresoftbe 2002Tax Reform(Law 788)
      Tax      ITable                                   Key Effects
Value-Added    I    A large number of previously exempted or excluded goods and services will be
Tax                 subject to the VAT at 7 percent from 2003, risingto 10percent in2005
                    Mobile phone rate established at 20 percent
                    Rate on automobile sales will be unified at 25 percent from the current range of 20
                    percent to 35 percent
                    Collection of VAT on all capital goods with a 3-year rebateor credit for registered
                    firms making further sales
Personal            Reduction of the wage tax exemption from 30 percent to 25 percent with a ceiling
Income Tax          of Co1$16 million inmonthly wages, and reduction of tax exemptions, tax credit,
                    and non-taxed income for the personal income tax
Corporate       0   Phase-outof exemptions for capital gains from sales of stock, mutual funds, and
IncomeTax           real estate, and for profits from a variety of previously privileged corporate forms
                    that often served as tax shelters
                    Reducedaccess to the special tax regime (20 percent rather than the standard 35
                    percent)
                    10percent special surcharge for 2003, to be loweredto 5 percent in2004
Other National      Does not eliminate the distortionaryfinancial transactions tux implemented in
Taxes and           1999;however, it closes some loopholes for transactions inthe real economy and
Contributions       allows exemptions for some interbank transactions not meant to be taxed
Subnational         Rationalizes departmental and district taxes on alcoholic drinks
Taxes               Increasesthe gasoline tax surcharge transferred to subnational governments by 5
                   percent

61.     The Government has moved ahead quickly in the preparation and approval of a
large number of decrees that regulate the implementation of Law 788. Among the most
important issued to date are those on dispute resolution, declaration of assets held abroad,
inflation adjustment of inventories, closing loopholes to the financial transactions tax,
revisions to the value-added tax, VAT exemptions for exporters, taxation of rental
property, and determining and imposing penalties.
62.     Remaining Challenges. In addition to completing the issuance of regulations for
the tax refom, the government will be implementing actions in 2004 that were foreseen
inLaw 788. These mainly involve reducing the exemptions inthe corporate income tax
law and reducing from 10 to 5 percent the surcharge on the corporate tax base rate, both
of which should improve the overall investment climate andreducedistortions.




                                                                                                       19

EE          Table 5: Ta



INTERNALTAXES                 9,311        9.47      10,924     10.0      1,613  0.54
  IncomeTax                   5,763        5.86      6,694      6.1        931   0.27
  VAT                         3,548        3.61      4,230      3.9        682   0.27
EXTERNALTAXES                 2,376        2.42      2,979      2.7        603   0.31
  Customs                      944         0.96      1,018      0.9         74   -0.03
  ExternalVAT                 1,431        1.46      1,960      1.8        529   0.34
GMF(0.3%)                      682         0.69       750       0.7         68   -0.01
TOTAL                         12,369       12.58     14,653     13.4      2,284  0.84
Source: Ministry of FinanceandPublicCredit.
63.     The provision of Law 788 that established a 2 percent VAT starting in 2005 on
previously untaxed goods and services such as basic foodstuffs, health, education, and
transportation was recently challenged and rendered unconstitutional by the
Constitutional Court because it violated the principles of progressive taxation.     The
expected annual collection from this measure was 800 billion Colombian pesos
(approximately US$280 million, for 2005), which the government will need to raise
through alternative measures. Some of the options being considered are a 3 to 4 percent
VAT on certain previously exempt goods while maintaining the exemption on certain
services, such as health and education, or a progressive pensions tax. Therefore, fiscal
sustainability will require an additional round of tax reform in the future, with content
and schedule yet undetermined.
64.     Expected Outcomes. These measures will expand the VAT tax base from about
41 percent of consumption in 2002 to about 59 percent by 2005," a major achievement.
Regarding the corporate income tax, the phase-out of exemptions will reduce them from
70 percent of potential revenuein2003, to 50 percent in 2004, to 20 percent in 2005, and
to 0 percent in 2006. An increase in subnational revenues by one-fifth i s expected.
Preliminary estimates by the authorities indicate that tax collections would increase by
about 1percent of GDP in 2003 as a result of the tax package, rising to 1.2 percent of
GDP in 2004 and to 1.7 percent of GDP in2005. Table 5 shows the observed increase in      .
tax revenuescomparing the first semester of 2002 with the first semester of 2003.
65.     Tax Administration. Even the best policy reforms would realize their goals of
greater revenue yields with fewer distortions only if there are improvements in tax
administration. This remains a major weakness in Colombia, where tax revenues are
substantially below what the rates and the tax base would normally suggest.
66.     The VAT and income taxes each collect only a little over 5 percent of GDP. The
National Directorate of Taxes and Customs (DIAN) is the entity responsible for tax and
customs administration. Some of the most important areas where the tax administration
needs improvement are:



loAssumingthatthe 2 percentVAT getsrestoredor replacedby anequivalent measure.


                                                                                      20

  0      Revision of the relationship with the banking systeminorder to standardize
         information flows andreducethe period during which funds are held by banks
         (now 14days);
  0      Improvedcoverageof withholdings of interest income on individuals, now only at
         7 percent andfrom large accounts only;
  0      Increasedintegration betweenthe areas of internal revenue and customs,
         especially inprocesses such as auditing and informationmanagement;
  0      Reducedcosts of enforcing compliance.
67.      Key Policy Actions Undertaken.                   The DIAN has undertaken a major
modernization effort and is working hard to meet the revenue targets for 2003.'' It has
establishedregulations to reduce the threshold of interest income revenue to be withheld
at the source, enhancedreportingby financial institutions, establisheda plan to collect tax
debt, anddefined indicators to monitor customsprocesses inBogotaand Medellin. It has
improved the cross-referencing of information with financial institutions, audited a
majority of the large taxpayers that were brought into the new tax regime, established
performance indicators for tax administration, and carried out over 200 integrated audits
(taxes and customs), which is well above the commitment in the policy matrix. The
MHCP will present to Congress a draft law to regulate the penalization of tax evasion.
Furthermore, DIAN has increased its auditing activities dramatically and has embarked
on an ambitious modernization effort with the support of the Govemment of Spain and
the Bank.
68.      Remaining Challenges. Many challenges to tax administration still lie ahead, In
the medium term, DUN knows it needs to make significant efforts in systems
development, and reengineering of processes and procedures, and that improved
regulations of andrelationships with the banking system are necessary, which are in turn
expected to yield a reduction in administrative costs per peso collected of 10 percent, a
collection of 75 percent of potential revenue from previously exemptedcorporate income
taxes, and markedimprovements in a broad set of performance indicators. These will be
accomplished with the support of FIALI11and IV.
69.      Fiscal Responsibility. The fiscal situation in Colombia reflects the extent of
excess demand on the State, its inability to meet those demands, and the urgency of
achieving sustainable balances. A sound fiscal framework i s essential for the national
security effort, for the social programs that sustain the State's legitimacy, and for the
protection of common citizens against the ravages of inflation. Achieving that will
require, among other things, institutional reform of the formulation of macroeconomic
policy, and close monitoringand control to meet short- and long-term fiscal targets.
70.      Behindthe unavoidable fiscal arithmetic by which spending in excess of revenue
has led to deficits and the accumulation of debt in Colombia, there lie budgeting and
fiscal management procedures that gave rise to the unsustainable fiscal tendencies.
Colombia has given increasing attention, therefore, to changing its rules of the game for
fiscal policy at all levels of government. Until recently, the Constitution and legal rules
for budgeting and treasury have done little to restrain Central Govemment deficits a n d

  In the televised cabinet meeting, DIAN announced that it had collected over 99 percent of the revenue
target set for the first seven months of 2003, which was COPI7,582,000 million.


                                                                                                    21

debt, and in some ways they encouraged them. For example, vigencias futuras make
commitment for future expenditure and the allowance for arrears based on ad hoc
promisesfor future payment of current expenditures.
71.     In the 1990s, the new Constitution broadened political participation, increased
spending impulses, and weakened the tax base of the national government (automatically
sharing it with subnational governments), all of which compromised overall fiscal
prudence. The Acto Legislativo (constitutional reform) of 2001 sought to put ex ante
limits on some of the spending impulse coming from transfers to subnational
governments.
72.     Despite these reforms, the national government believes that at all levels of
government there remains too much discretion affecting fiscal deficits and not enough
assurance of fiscal sustainability. DNP evidence to this effect is the fact that Central
Government expenditures have increased steadily from 9.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to
20.8 percent of GDP in2002.
73.     Key Policy Actions Undertaken. The Colombian Congress approved a Fiscal
Responsibility Law (FRL) inJune 2003 that sets the stage for fiscal sustainability. After
severalrounds of revisions andconsultations with the Bank, the bill was enacted into law.
The bill had been discussed within the government and Congress since the previous
administration, and it came through Congress without any ad hoc amendments or
cumbersome transition clauses. The FRL contains rules for fiscal stability, transparency
and macroeconomic consistency, fiscal discipline, and subnational debt limits that
reinforce and expand the measures previously taken with Law 617. The Law contains
rules for (a) setting fiscal targets linkedto debt sustainability and primary balance for the
Non-Financial Public Sector (NFPS); (b) publication of the financial plan; (c) annual
reports of fiscal results to Congress; and (d) the obligation to include the fiscal impact
and source of financing within any new law that affects taxes or expenditures.
74.     Remaining Challenges. The key challenge in relation to fiscal responsibility will
be the full application of the FRL in 2004, including the issuance of regulations. The
main new work will be the development of a Multiyear Fiscal Framework (Marc0 Fiscal
Multi-Anual) and the accompanying reports, which are due for the first time in summer
2004 but have been advanced in the presentation of the 2004 annual budget bill to
Congress. As this i s developed and the complexities become apparent, the government
will at the same time develop and then issue the regulations.                       Here the issues of
calculation of contingent and floating debt will be spelled out-the                 format for reporting
them, linkage of the Multiyear Fiscal Framework with the stipulations of the Organic
Budget Law (to be submitted to Congress by then), and the regulation of subnational
debt.
75.     Asset Management. Public Asset Management is the institutional framework
used by the public sector to account for, administer, allocate, maintain, use, and dispose
of government assets. Currently, the existing information on public real estate assets i s
deficient, incomplete, and unreliable.l2 Furthermore, the administration of public real

       ~




l2For example, current figures on public asset inventories reflect the unreliable information systems used.
Of the 302 entities at the national level, only 187 report information about their asset inventory to the
Contaduria Generalde la Nacio'n(CGN). Additionally, most entities report incomplete information.


                                                                                                        22

assets has been focused on precarious registration procedures and deficient conservation
and maintenance of the properties. Itis inmany cases unknownwhether the asset is up to
date in terms of legal contingencies, accounts payable, and so forth. Additionally, the
high cost of normalizing assets has caused a significant proportion of public assets to
have legal problems. This situation implies unnecessary public expenses and a high
opportunity cost.       The new framework will create the rules, regulations and
organizational practices-both       formal and informal-for      an efficiency-driven asset
management policy.
76.     Some agencies have accumulated a varied array of properties and other assets,
which with unclear legal status and economic value, incomplete registration, and
irregular control, do not constitute a solid basis to apply professional management
criteria.   Moreover, there are no standardized procedures, centralized control, or
incentives for efficient asset management. The complex legal framework i s an additional
burdenbecauseit does not recognizemarketprinciples, nor doesitprovide adequatelyfor
discretionary managerial actions. As a result of all these factors, asset management i s
inefficient, andthere is a substantial accumulation of idle assets.
77.     Key Policy Actions Undertaken. A government team for asset management was
set up by DNP to lead the reforms in this area, prepare a National Council of Economic
and Social Policy (CONPES) document defining the government policy in this matter,
and to carry out a short-term asset sale and savings program meant to generate
approximately US$10.5 million in capital revenue. The CONPES document has been
approved and provides the initial framework and procedures for standardized, coherent,
and efficient asset management.
78.     Remaining Challenges. DNP will be the agency in charge of implementing the
directives contained in the CONPES document. This is crucial since at present no entity
in the Central Government is in charge of asset management, and standard policies and
procedures have to be developed from scratch. The scope of this initial work also
includes the operational planning for the elaboration of consolidated inventories (with
verification of title, possession, value, and accounting registration), the request to entities
of the Central Government to report on their current asset stock, and the realization of
savings and revenuesinthe short term of approximately US$9 million.
79.     Subsequent actions include (a) the formal establishment of a centralized unit in
charge of the coordination of the more substantial reforms, the development of manuals
of policies and procedures, provision of technical assistance and overall guidanceto other
participating agencies, and management of a database system; and (b) development of a
more flexible and open-minded approach to concessions, leasing, privatization,
outsourcing, and so forth, and the publication of the inventory of assets owned by each
agency, increasing transparency and accountability. The new approach will have four
mainpillars:

    0   Contribution to Public Investment in Social Proaams: Priority will be given to
        the identification of idle public real estate assets that can be transferred to the
        national social housing program. DNP will work together with the Ministry of
        Housing and Environment in the design and development of a legal and financial
        scheme that will speed up the transformation process of idle public real estate



                                                                                           23

         assets into social housing projects. This will help to achieve the government's
         targets in the reduction of the existing housing deficit (1.5 million units). More
         specifically, social programs such as land reform, primarily or victims of
         violence, will be addressed.
    0   Urban Renovation: The state has a large mount of nonproductive assets that
         could be usedby localmunicipalities anddistricts for urbanrenovation projects.
    0    Real Estate LeasindRents: Public real estate assets generating revenues can be
         packaged and sold incapital markets.
    a    Sales: The existing legal framework limits the selling process of public assets. In
        this regard, legal reforms have to be submitted to Congressto approve innovative
         outsourcing schemes for the implementation of commercial strategies to dispose
         of assets. This includes the contribution of idle public property to private real
         estate projects as a means to speed up the sale and generate value in the process.
        These schemes have proven successful in social housing programs at the
         municipal level (Metrovivienda) and could be adapted to serve the Central
         Government's objectives         .
80.      Protecting the State against the Extraordinary Growth of Legal Claims.
Litigation against the State has a substantial fiscal impact in Colombia, much above
known impacts for other countries. Typically, lawsuits against the State arise from
poorly drafted contracts, which leave space for litigation regarding the interpretation of
rights and obligations. Since 1994, the number of cases filed has increased enormously,
andtheir outcomeshave contributed negatively to the current fiscal crisis. Inthe last four
years, actual payments due to formal first instancejudicial or arbitration decisions against
the State exceeded US$145 mi1li0n.l~ This amount alone i s cause for serious concern,
but reflects only the flow of actual payments made; estimates show the accumulated
stock of contingent liabilities growing at an alarming speed. If this trend continues, it i s
estimated that by 2006, liabilities due to judgments against the State will represent
approximately 2 percent of GDP (see Figure 4).14
81.      This scenario i s aggravated by the fact that the State cannot afford to honor on
time all compensatory payments. An extremely high rate of penalty interest (up to 30
percent per year) i s applied, creating a "snowball effect" in the State's liabilities. This
allows ample margin for unethical practices, as creditors "prefer" to be paid late and
benefit from a very attractive returnon their accounts receivable.




'`
l3Based on data from MHCP, before the decision o f the appeal level. Note that a single case still pending
decision, Telecom, could generate compensation payments of up to US$282 million, adding great fiscal
 ressure that is not sustainable in the short term.
  Sources: Contraloria General de la Nacidn; Contaduria General de la Nacidn. These figures have not
been independently verified by the Bank, DNP, or the Ministry of Finance.


                                                                                                       24

     Figure 4. AccumulatedFiscalCostof Contingent LiabilitiesAgainst the State


              8000




                       1995     1996      1997      1998    1999     2000      2001    2002(e)


        Sources: Contralon'a Generalde la Republica,Contadun'aGeneral de la Nacibn,and WorldBank
82.     Regardless of the complexity of the situation, three distinctive elements can be
identified as the main reasons for this problem. First, there seems to be a web of civil
servants, contractors, judges, attorneys, and so forth engaged in coordinated corrupt
practices that materialize in such things as reciprocal favors of poorly drafted contractual
agreements, fake accusations and claims, high compensation payments, and intentional
"erroneous" decision^.'^       Second, the Colombian State has a weak capacity to defend
itself in court. The private sector i s better equipped to retain expert legal advice, and
therefore their claims are exerted with much more rigor. Third, the legal framework
encourages the State to act passively with respect to demands and claims from
individuals. In labor and contracting legal issues, the State recognizes certain rights of
counterparts,but in doing so, compromises its own position.
83.     The Ministry of Finance, the Planning Department, and the Ministry of Interior
and Justice are especially concerned with the fiscal threat that originates from a weak
legal andjudicial performance of the State. These government units, with the support of
sector ministries, the Procuraduria, the Contraloria, and the Consejo de Estudo, are
committed to elevating the institutional capacity of the State to protect itself from legal
claims as apreconditionfor an effective reform.
84.     The objectives of strengthening legal protection of the State are (a) to reduce
negligence and corruption in the management of state affairs, including labor and
commercial contracts; (b) to reduce fiscal impact of judicial and arbitration decisions
against the State by seeking compensation from responsible officers or third parties; (c)
to strengthen the state capacity to prepare, monitor, and control large investment
contracts and labor relations with a view to prevent contractual disputes; (d) to anticipate
and prevent state responsibility for infringement of basic rights; and (e) to foster a better


l5This appears to have happened, for example, in the recent decisions against the State for the cases of
Foncolpuertosand Termorrfo.


                                                                                                    25

investment     climate through enhancement of transparency,                       predictability,      and
responsibility in state contractualand extra-contractual relations.
85.     Key Policy Actions Undertaken. The immediate objective of the government i s to
improve its legal protection through the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of
Interior and Justice's (MIJ) Directorate of Legal Defense. As part of Law 790, which
pushed the agenda of public sector modernization and gave the President special
authority to restructure the Executive Branch, Congress approved a specific clause for
strengthening the MIJ's roles and responsibilities in legal defense and mandated the
implementation of an information system to track and raise alerts regarding lawsuits.
Consequently, the Directorate of Legal Defense i s carrying out a detailed diagnosis and
typology of the related issues, causes, and costs to produce policy guidelines to be
approvedofficially by the government.
86.     Remaining Challenges. The enactment of Law 790 and the groundwork being
carried out by the MU is just the beginning of a lengthy process of strengthening legal
defense, and its actual impact on the budget may not be seen for years. The MIJ needs a
highly qualified cadre of staff to carry out the mandates of the law (including the
obligation to coordinate the defense of all claims above 2,000 monthly minimumsalaries,
or approximately US$235,000). An effective reduction in the fiscal cost of claims also
requires a coordinated effort with the sources of the dispute (such as the procurement
process), and with other agencies of control and oversight. The overall diagnosis and
strategy was approved as a CONPES document and became official government policy.
The information systemmandatedby the law is also of highimportance to ensure prompt
action when required.16
87.     BudgetManagement. Colombia's planning andbudgetary process is a complex
interplay of various entities operating under diverse rules andprocedures. It produces the
NationalDevelopment Plan, the Financial Plan, the National Investment Plan, the Annual
Investment Operative Plan, and the Budget. Theoretically, they are fully consistent with
one another, but in practice they differ among themselves. Budget law figures are actual
appropriations instead of expenditure caps, which consequently limit the scope for
expenditure control during the budget year. Furthermore, the budget process does not
produce reliable revenueestimates.
88.     Over the years, many Colombian interests have successfully won permanent
budget entitlements or revenue earmarks. This has served to circumvent resource
constraints and to reduce the scope for government decisionmaking and good fiscal
policy. It has also crimped the mobilization of funds for new programs. This problem
has been recognized and acknowledged by the Colombian authorities since it was first
pointed out by the 1980-8 1 Presidential Commission for Inter-Government Fiscal
Relations. However measuresto attenuate it have been too weak or short-1i~ed.l~




l6The technical assistancerequired to achieve the long-term objectives of legal protection of the State will
be provided by an IDB-funded TAL, currently inpreparation and scheduled for approval in late-2003.
 l7
  Cf. Bird, R. M., 1981, Colombia. Inter-govemment Fiscal Relations. Harvard University, International
Tax Program. The Presidential Comisidn de Gasto Pliblico of the early 1990sproduced a report of similar
category.


                                                                                                        26

89.     Other deficiencies in the system include the absence of suitable controls over
budget outcomes. Instead of having effective "checks," Colombian budgeting is too
process oriented. This has hamperedthe tracking of such important elements as stability,
effectiveness, and efficiency.        In addition, Congress lacks the technical capacity to
properly analyze budgetinformation.
90.     Thus, the challenge i s to initiate a transformation of the budget system through
several fronts: first, to introduce greater flexibility by restricting earmarking of revenues,
permanent expenditure entitlements, and the use of forward budgeting; second, to
establish effective controls over expenditure aggregates; third, to develop tools for
improved medium-term budgetary planning; and fourth, to make the budgetary process
more policy focused and accountablefor results. This will not be an easy task. Besides
the inertial tendencies to maintain existing practices, the vested interests that have gained
power on budgetdecisions will resist giving it up.
91.     Reform will require sustained changes in rules and procedures to make budget
decisions according to policy priorities (allocative efficiency), performance and results
(productive efficiency), and available resources.            This would affect how Central
Government and sectoral authorities decide on what should be done, how it is going to be
achieved, and who i s responsible for it. It would also affect subnational governments to
the extent that national rules and practices are also applicable to regional and local
governments.       The new rules also call for mechanisms to hold policymakers and
managers accountable for planned outputs and outcomes to be delivered in a timely
fashion.
92.     Key Policy Actions Undertaken.              The first attempt by the Government to
rationalize the budgetary system was contained in a proposal for constitutional reform
(Acto Legislativo) that would have given the MHCP the authority to regulate budget
execution within fiscal targets, in contrast with the current system where the budget
creates mandatory and inflexible entitlements. Although the Lower House approved the
proposedreform, it was struck down by the Senate." Therefore, virtually all the policy
actions neededto reform the structure of the budgetary system still lie ahead. However,
it should be noted that the 2004 budget document, which was presented to Congress on
July 2gth, was a significant improvement over previous budgets because it included a
medium-term fiscal outlook, the calculation of tax expenditures andcontingent liabilities,
and a presentationby functions that integrates current andcapitalexpenditures.
93.     The road map toward budgetreform was approved as a CONPES document. This
in itself is an important achievement because it shows consensus within the Executive
Branch over the objectives of the reform, something rather difficult considering that
several ministries benefit from budgetary rigidities and that restoring control over
expenditure aggregates to the Ministry of Finance places greater pressure on them to use
their budgetswithin clearly establishedguidelines.



   On July 20, the Government resubmitted a variant of the Acto Legislativo to Congress, including
proposals to allow the annual budget law to modify earmarked revenues and modify laws that generate
public expenditure, and prohibiting the creation of new earmarked revenues. However, its theoretical
approval by Congress would take approximately one year.


                                                                                               27

94.     ChaEZenges Ahead. The government has determined that substantial reforms in
the budgetary process are essential to restore its capacity to implement fiscal policy
within a framework of macroeconomic stability. A number of key policy actions lie
ahead which, when taken together, constitute an important package of reforms that will
restore flexibility to budgetary management and strengthen the policymaking capacity of
the Executive Branch. These include:
       Pursuing a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) adjusted to the
       Colombian legal and political constraints. This document must propose aggregate
       fiscal targets for a multiannual period (in conjunction with the FRL), identify key
        strategic and policy issues, and propose sectoral allocations. Once these sectoral
       priorities and activities are identified by line ministries and decentralized
       agencies, it would be possible to carry out a cost assessment o f total requirements
       within each sector.      This medium-term perspective would also serve other
       purposes: it would provide reliable figures to evaluate possibilities of budget cuts
       from the standpoint of output impact rather than the more traditional input
       perspective, and would clarify the need to evaluate legal entitlements in the light
       of sectoral objectives and priorities, and how to shift resources when priorities
       change.

       EnsuringConsistencybetween Current and Capital Expenditures. Over decades,
       the processes of assigning current and capital expenditures by the Ministry of
       Finance and DNP, respectively, have resulted in two almost autonomous budgets.
        This resulted in, amongother things, an inability to effectively analyze the current
       expenditure consequences of public investment. The authorities will act to ensure
       coherencebetweencurrent and capital spending.

        Greater Transparencv and Accountability for Outcomes. This element of the
        strategy calls for simplifying budgetary information in order to make it easier to
       understand and available for public use. This proposal goes hand inhand with the
        government's initiatives to launch a website with comprehensive fiscal
        information based on SIIF outcomes, and will require the immediate
        implementation of a communication program to convey to the public the present
       budget figures. The bond between results and budget allocation i s an important
        area for improvement.

        Review of Entitlements and Earmarked Revenues. To promote flexibility in
        public expenditure, the GOC needs to undertake a process of review of
        expenditure entitlements and earmarked revenues, and define the necessary legal
        and administrative measures to introduce greater flexibility into budget
        management.

        Budgeting and Accounting Classifications Using International Standards.
        Different government levels have been reluctant to unify accounting and
       budgeting classifications, instead using nonstandard accounting practices. The
        strategy aims at unifying budgeting and accounting bookkeeping according to
        international standardsintime for the FY2006 budget.


                                                                                         28

95.     These reforms, and others critical to the modernization of the public expenditure
cycle, will be introduced through two primary vehicles: first, a new, more comprehensive
and coherent Organic Budget Code (OBC); and second, the annualbudget laws, which
should incorporate the requirementsof both the revised OBC and the recently approved
Fiscal Responsibility Law. Between them, the Government should achieve substantial
improvements in the budgeting process in order to introduce greater flexibility,
accountability, and macro-fiscal consistency.
96.     Developmentof Incentivesfor EfficiencyGains. Servicedelivery inColombia,
as in many other countries, has long emphasizedinputs over outcomes. The traditionally
centralized public sector management tended to distance public managers even further
from the outcomes achieved by the interventions of their programs, yielding mediocre
public services at unreasonablyhighcosts. It was hoped that decentralization would be a
strategy to reverse this tendency, and since the mid-1980s a shift of resources and
decision making authority to local government has occurred. Butdecentralization hasnot
fully reached its objectives, and its level of implementation varies among the regions.
The transfer of powers has resulted in blurred responsibilities in a number of sectors,
which further underminesaccountability.
97.     The government has shown commitment toward introducing incentives to
promote the use of results-basedmanagement to improve efficiency and effectiveness of
fiscal transfers at the subnational levels, particularly in the education sector. Given the
fact that the fiscal decentralization scheme in Colombia establishes mandatory transfers
to bothdepartmentsand municipalities and that the Central Government has no authority
to condition those transfers on performance, they have become one of the most important
sources of budgetary rigidity. Transfers for education, for instance, represent about 7.5
billion pesos per year (12 percent of the total budget).
98.     The government's strategy to overcome this situation or, at least, introduce
results-oriented criteria and incentives to impact such rigidities consists of two measures:
(a) the approval of Law 715 that changes the current supply-based transfer system for
education based on the number of teachers in a certain region, to a new demand-based
system based on the number of students attending school; and (b) reallocation of the 56
percent of the National Royalty Fund (FNR) currently spent on improperly planned and
often inappropriate investments to finance exclusively education projects aimed at
increasing school attendance of children in vulnerable groups.
99.     Key Policy Actions Undertaken.          Law 715, approved in December 2001,
establishes new distribution criteria to go into effect in 2004, but it has already worked as
an effective incentive to increase student enrollment across the country. Of course, such
powerful incentives imply not only the sound objective of encouraging students to attend
school, but also the risk of fraud by entities reporting excessively high numbers of
students to receive high transfers. Strong policies to improve control and audit systems
are being developed by the Ministry of Education, and are expected to be operating by
2004.
100.    Remaining Challenges. Improved targeting of the resources of the FNR is an
important element that remains to be achieved. Although the FNR does not represent a
significant amount of resources compared to unconditioned transfers (1.5 percent), it can



                                                                                          29

constitute an additional incentive to subnational governments in order to promote the
national priority of reducing deficits in school attendance. Such reallocation implies
reforms to the Constitution, because the FNR i s regulated at that level. A referendum to
approve such a constitutional amendment alongwith other fiscal and political reforms has
been approved by Congress and was recently authorized by the Country's Constitutional
Court. The referendumwill take placeinlate October 2003.
101.    Demonstrating its commitment to the reform, the Government has already
initiated the FNR reallocation exercise by including, in the 2003 Budget, appropriations
of 31.6 percent of these resources to projects meeting the criteria established by the
Ministry of Education in the spirit of the pursued constitutional reform. This was
possible through a decision by the Comite`Nacional de Regalias, a national and sub-
national government joint committee that currently has oversight authority over that part
of the FNR. As a result of this particular exercise, about 30,000 new students from
vulnerable groups will be enrolled this year, inaddition to the regular enrollment rate. It
i s estimatedthat the total reallocation of royalties could duplicate such results.
102.    In the event that this provision of the referendum is not approved, it is the
commitment of the government that at least the 31.6 percent of the FNR will continue to
be allocated to projects to increaseeducational coverage, as in2003, in order to make the
results achieved to date irreversible and to expand them, depending on financial
resources. This "Plan B"will certainly have less impact than the reforms proposed inthe
referendum, but it reflects what is feasible within the current constitutional framework.
103.    Strengthening Public Sector Procurement. Contracting and procurement with
clear and transparent rules i s critical for making efficient choices in buying goods and
services, and averting corruption in the process. In Colombia, inefficiencies in public
contracts are due to a large extent to the legacy of traditional patronage systems in the
State, andto a dispersed andhighly diversifiedlegal framework.
104.    Currently, a variety of laws and regulations govern public procurement, with
frequent overlaps and omissions, and a proliferation of regimes and exceptions.        This
debilitates monitoring and protects both buyers and vendors of services from being
accountable to each other, providing much opportunity for corruption. Moreover, no
central agency i s in charge of promoting reform and determining rules that could
introduce more transparency and efficiency in the procurement process. Overly complex
and superfluous procedures, such as the registry of contractors, thus still prevail, partly
because the use of modern information technology i s relatively weak and state agencies
are not well equipped to use it. Contract management and planning i s poor, and only
large and experienced agencies show good practices. Procurement methods need to be
redefined, standardized, and made more expeditious.              There should be a better
distribution of contract risk. Strategies for handling and successfully concluding the legal
claims should also be established. Finally, civil society does not yet play a significant
supervisory role, which further undermines accountability andtransparency.
 105.    Key Actions Undertaken. The government has taken important initial steps in this
direction, notably Decree 2170 that strengthens transparency and objectivity in
procurement. Although this instrument only became effective on January 1, 2003, its
impact is already being felt. The requirement of advertising bidding opportunities and



                                                                                         30

bidding documents on the web has been well received by both the private sector and
government officials. Another development welcome by government agencies and state
companies has been the introduction of "reverse auctions'' for the procurement of large
volumes of standard goods. Although, it is still too early to tell, several government
institutionsh a v e successfully used this tool with meaningful reductionso f price. On the
other hand, Some agencies complain that the shopping procedures introduced under the
Decree have lengthened the procurement process of standard goods,                       which is not
necessarilybad, given the considerable discretion for the use of shopping under Law 80.
It is expected that the new law amending Law 80 will, on one hand, firm up provisos
included inthe Decree, and on the other, correct shortcomings.
106.     On October 20, 2003, the Government approved a CONPES document
establishing t h e guidelines for improving public sector procurement.                This document
describes the need for simplifying the system of various parallel procurement regimes,
the introduction of efficiency considerations into the procurement process, and the
establishment of a government entity responsible for the oversight of public sector
procurement'9.
107.     Remaining Challenges. Although Decree 2170 has introduced improvements in
the procurement process, its cornerstone-the             Organic Procurement Law (Law SO>-
remains a major obstacle to substantive reform. Law 80 coexists with a large number of
other laws and regulations that have an impact on the procurement process with major
overlaps and omissions, muddling the regulatory framework and opening opportunities
for corruption and fraud. The overall regulatory framework mustbe simplified and Law
80 needs to be substantially improved to become effective, in coordination with the                      ,
guidelines of the CONPES document.
108.     Earlier this year, the Government sent to Congress Bill007/2003 amending L a w
80. The bill was drafted with considerable input from the private and public sectors. It
includes a number of positive amendments to Law 80 and establishes an electronic
procurement information system. An important proviso making a government agency
responsible for public procurement was dropped from the bill, but was later reintroduced
at the request of the Government. Further down the line, the government will need to
implement the institutional arrangements defined in the revised Law 80, issue subsidiary
regulations, and restructure the national registry of bidders. The bill being considered i s
fully consistent with the recently approved CONPES document, even though the
customary process is that the CONPES document gets approved before the bill i s
submitted to Congress.
109. Management Contracts for Government Agencies. Although the Colombian
public sector is rich in sophisticated tools for evaluation and monitoring, such as
SINERGIA, the government's performance monitoring system, the rigidities of the
budgetary, human resource management, and administrative systems have made it
virtually impossible to match real incentives to institutional performance. Particularly in
an environment of severe fiscal constraints, it is important to obtainthe highest value-for-
money in order to fulfill social demands and effectively implement public policy. Since


l9The consultancy requirements for the modernization o f the procurement process are fully funded by the
Bank's Public Financial Management Project 11(MAFP11).


                                                                                                     31

it is not feasible to establish a comprehensiveperformance budgeting system in the short
term, the Government requires a mechanismto introduce incentives for performance, at
least on an agency-by-agency basis.
110. Key Actions Taken. The Government has implemented on a pilot basis a new
instrument to both improve mechanisms for performance evaluation and provide
incentives to independent or decentralized agencies in order to promote efficiency and
better service delivery. The idea of introducing managementcontracts i s in line with the
objective of overcoming expenditure rigidities in those agencies that have their own
funding sources but no incentives to provide good service.
111. Management agreements are, in essence, written agreements between Central
Government entities (Ministries of Finance, of Social Protection, and the National
Department of Planning) with oversight authority over a particular sector where
independent or quasi-independent public agencies operate, and one or more of those
agencies. These agreements specify performancetargets for the agency such as increased
service coverage, improved quality and higher cost-effectiveness, and the consequences
of achieving or not achieving the targets. The government has selected two major social
protection decentralized agencies, ICBF and SENA, which are also targets of policy
commitments under the Bank's PLaRSSAL, to spearhead this strategy.             These two
agencies have signed management contracts with the Central Government entities and
constitute apilot exercise to be expanded inthe future.
112.    The National Service for Training (SENA) i s a 40-year-old agency that provides
technical education to defined groups of the population in order to qualify the labor force
and provide adequate skills for young people seeking their first job, and for older
workers. SENA's services are fundedthrough amandatory contribution from workers all
over the country, which i s automatically discounted from private and public entities'
payrolls. Currently, SENA's budget accountsfor 0.82 percent of the total nationalbudget.
The Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF) i s a national agency that provides
basic health (nutrition) services for the most vulnerable children and other groups under
special risk. It i s also an old agency (35 years) that enjoys its own revenues from
mandatory contributions paid by private and public employers. ICBF's annual budget
accounts for about 1.56 percentof the total national budget.
113.    Each agency had agreed to an ambitious four-year strategic plan with the new
Ministry of Social Protection. No incentives, however, were offered inorder to seriously
promote changes in the administration. To fill this gap, management agreements have
been signed between the Ministry of Finance, the National Planning Department, the
Ministry of Social Protection, and the agencies involved, as a key complement to the
reform and modernization strategies in both entities. This instrument should provide the
incentives to generate the desired virtuous cycle that promotes administrative efficiency,
financial independence, and service improvements for their beneficiaries.
114.    One common issue that was identified by these agencies i s the way in which the
Ministry of Financeauthorizes the use of their "own" resources. Given fiscal constraints,
these agencies are limitedin the amount they can spend from the resources they collect,
by the so-called espacio fiscal (fiscal yield). This policy contributes to balancing the
aggregate fiscal accounts, but provides a wrong and perverse incentive to the agencies



                                                                                         32

that have no motivation to improve revenue generation and, thus, expand or improve
service delivery. The key incentive to be introduced into the management agreements by
the Ministry of Finance is an increase in the fiscal yield based on (a) reaching service
delivery goals under the strategic plan (particularly those agreedunder PLaRSSAL), and
(b) increasing revenue collection. This new scheme will connect budget allocation
decisions with service delivery achievements and revenue collection efficiency,
transforming the perversescheme into the correct way to provideincentives.
115.    Remaining Challenges. The signature on the management contracts with ICBF
and SENA is just the first step in a process meant to generate greater efficiency and
accountability for outcomes in public service delivery.        The performance of these
agencies vis-&-vis the contracts will have to be measured, and if appropriate, the
incentives should be introduced into the 2005 budget. Frequent monitoring of the
agreements will be necessary to ensure their proper enforcement andthe accumulation of
lessons learned for a future expansion of the model to other public agencies. If this
model is successful in ICBF and SENA, the government intends to expand it to at least
six more agenciesby the endof its term.
116.    Management of the Public Sector Reform Process. Reforming the State is a
complex undertaking that challenges any government's capability. This i s also true for
Colombia as it carries out its ambitious reform program. Putting in place adequate
institutional arrangements, securing the necessary technical expertise, assembling
implementation teams, ensuring political support during all phases of the reform, and
carrying out meaningful and useful evaluations and assessments of the process have all
been challenges for the leadersof the reform.
117.    Key Actions Taken. Gaining the acceptance of political actors i s key for
successful reform. Initially, this role i s being played by the National Commission for
Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) as the principal planningcommission. Over the
course of the reform, however, there will be the need to guide the process on a more
continuous basis to avoid the danger of loss of politicalmomentum. Not all participating
ministries are equally affected by or interested in the state reform process, so much
specificity will be gained from working only with the most relevant ones by creating a
specializedcommission inaddition to CONPES. This core Commission for State Reform
(CSR) has already been established, composed o f the Ministry of Finance, the Planning
Department, and the Departamento Administrativo de la Funcidn Pu'blica (DAW, the
departmentinchargeof the civil service).
118.    The fundamental guidelinesfor the overall reform processhave been defined in a
CONPES document entitled, "Program for the Renovation of the Public Administration,"
which further develops the reform guidelines established inPresidentialDirective 10, and
formally establishes them as government policy.
119.    Remaining Challenges. Transforming political priorities and goals into effective
application i s the challenge that underlies technical coordination of the process. The
DNP will tackle this by regularlyincorporating into its work the advice of top experts in
state reform, initially for the crafting of general government policy. Inthe medium term,
this should be complemented by a group of seasoned experts to consult independently.




                                                                                       33

Equally important is the establishment or continuing support of technical task teams in
both DNP and each of the ministries and agencies subject to reform.
120.     The evaluation of the reform, including the definition of meaningful indicators
both at the aggregate and component levels, has advanced and SINERGIA has taken the
leadership of this effort. A report on the "evaluability" of the sector-specific objectives
has been prepared and certain baseline indicators are in the process of being defined,
quantified, and published.                However, the collection, processing, and analysis of
information for this purposewill likely be acomplex challenge.

    V.               THESECONDFISCALANDINSTITUTIONALSTRUCTURAL
                                    ADJUSTMENT LOAN                (FIAL 11)

A. LOAN      DESCRIPTION


121.     This operation is proposed as a single-tranche loan to be fully disbursed in
November or early December 2003, and i s linked to, among other things, regulation of
the tax reform law, significant improvements in tax administration, the official definition
of a budget reform strategy, presentation of the referendum to popular vote, issuance of
CONPES documents establishing the policies for legal defense of the State, asset
management andthe overall public sector reform framework, presentation to Congress of
changes to the procurement law, and the signature of management contracts with ICBF
and SENA. The detailed legal and regulatory reforms required as part of the proposed
secondloan are shown inTable 6.




     third calendar quarter, prior to Loaninitialdisbursements,has not exceeded75% of the overall deficit limit in
     saidbudget.
     The Borrower hasissuedthe necessaryexecutivedecrees to regulate the application of Law 788 of 2002.
     The Borrower, throughDUN,has: a) developedandimplemented softwareto cross reference
     information with financialinstitutions to ensure that interest reported by them match interest reported by
     taxpayers; b) auditedat least 50% of large taxpayers (as defined inArticle 562 of the Borrower's tax code)
     affected by the new taxes; c) establishedand publishedindicators of the cost and time required for tax
     filing compliance by taxpayers, and d) has carriedout at least 80 integratedtax and customs audits.
     The Borrowerhas approvedCONPESdocumentnumber 3252 dated October20,2003, that outlines the strategy
     for nationalcentral government budgetreform, including, inter alia: (a) the eliminationor reduction of
     permanententitlementsandearmarkedrevenues; (b) the regulationof the use of forward budgeting; and (c) the
     establishmentof controlsover expenditure aggregates.
     The Borrower'sExecutiveBranchhas submittedto the Borrower's CongressandsaidCongresshas approved,
     the 2004budgetbillof law, to approve the Borrower's 2004public budget,to include, inter alia, (a) medium
     termfiscal outlooks; (b) the calculationof tax expenditures and contingentliabilities; and (c) the presentationby
     functions of the Borrower's governmentsector, integratingcurrent and capitalBorrower's government
     expenditures.



2o See definition of "trigger"  inSection IV-A All theseprior actions, triggers included, have been fulfilled
satisfactorily prior to Board distribution of this document.


                                                                                                                    34

    TheBorrower has submitted to popular vote the provisionof the Referendumthat reallocates royalty
    transfers to educationalservices.
    The Borrower's Ministry of Educationhas issuedaresolution(ResolutionNumber 277103, dated February 17,
    2003, to establish the eligibility criteria to allocateeconomicresourcesgeneratedfromthe application of Law 21
    for the benefit of public educationinfrastructureprojectsinthe Borrower'sterritory.
    The Borrower has approvedCONPES documentnumber 3250, dated October 20,2003, establishing,inter
    alia, the new policy for legaldefenseof the state, including legal reform if necessary.
    The Borrower has approvedCONPES documentnumber 3249, datedOctober 20,2003, establishing, infer alia:
    (a) the principles that apply to govemmentpublic procurement, (b) the creationof anew agency or the
    assignmentto an existingagency of public sector procurementresponsibilities,and(c)the definition of a
    strategy for developingandimplementinge-procurement.
    The Borrower hasproposedto its legislature modifications to the bill of law amending Law 80 that
    incorporate the recommendationsof CONPES, including, inter alia: (a) commonprinciples for public
    procurement; (b) introductionof economicconsiderationsinto the public procurement process; and(c)
    institutional framework for publicprocurement.
    The Borrower has approvedCONPES document number3251, datedOctober 20,2003, establishing thebasic
    principlesand strategic planningfor Asset Management,including, infer alia: (a) the institutional framework for
    Asset Management; (b) management information systemsfor Asset Management;and(c) adequaterules and
    proceduresfor Asset Management.
    TheBorrower, through MHCPandDNP, hassignedpilot managementagreementswith SENA andICBF.
    Borrowerhas approvedCONPESdocumentnumber 3248datedOctober20,2003, establishingthe overall
    strategy of public sector reformandarecommendationto designindicatorson public sector productivity and
    effectiveness.
    The Borrower has developeda monitoringandevaluationsystem for the statereformprocess with indicatorsof
    productivity andeffectivenessandhas widely publicizedit, includingits publicationthrough DNP's web site.
    The Borrowerhas enacted Law Number819of 2003 that regulates,inter alia: (a) the annualpresentation
    of (i) a medium-termfiscal framework with deficit targets linkedto debt sustainability; (ii)     a report of
    fiscal results to congress (including alldebt and contingent liabilities), and (iii) afinancial planthat
    includesmeasuresto fully compensatefor any fiscal slippageinthe previous year; (b) restrictions on
    future spending obligationsof nationaland sub-national governments; and (c)the obligation to includethe
    fiscal impact and source of financing within any new national law that affectstaxes or expenditures.



122.     Triggers for the Third Operation. A subset of the policy actions for FIAL 111
describedin this operation's Policy Matrix has been identified as the key benchmarks that
will demonstrate progress in the reform program, and its fulfillment will be required
before presentationof the thirdoperation to the Board. These triggers are:

   0     Borrower has presented to Congress a new Organic Budget Code which
         substantially reducesbudgetary rigidities and enhances the role of the Ministry of
         Finance and Public Credit inregulating public expenditure aggregates.

   0     Borrower has implemented the policies and actions for legal defense established
         in the CONPES document in the Ministry of the Interior and Justice and in the
         Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.

   0     Borrower has established a new governmental agency with the responsibility for
         establishing common guidelines, evaluating and monitoring public sector
         procurement, or has assignedthis function to an existing agency.

   0     Borrower has established and begun the operation of the government agency
         responsiblefor asset management.



                                                                                                                 35

    0   Baseline and a subset of progress indicators for monitoring progress and final
        goals of the reform process are applied to the reforms achieved to date and are
        disseminated countrywide.
123.    Loan Amount. The proposed (US$150 million) loan in the form of a fixed
spread, U.S.-dollar-denominated loan would be made to the Republic of Colombia.
Disbursements under the proposed program would be made to an account (depository
account) of the Republic of Colombia, established at the Banco de la RepLibZica for this
purpose. This loan would have a single tranche of US$l50 million, expected to be
disbursedinlate November or early December2003.


B. FIDUCIARY    POLICIES


124.    Procurement and Financial Administration.                  A Country      Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) i s currently being prepared and an initial draft is
under internal discussion.     Although the scope of the CFAA regarding financial
management is significantly broader than the scope of the FIAL's budget component
(which is focused primarily on eliminating rigidities), the recommendations of the draft
CFAA being discussed are consistent with the FIAL. An enrichment of the FIAL policy
matrix for loans IIIandIV basedon CFAA recommendations will be considered once the
CFAA is finalized and a plan of action i s agreed with the government. Moreover, the
financial management team will advise with regard to audit of the depository account at
the Central Bank. Regarding procurement, a Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) was prepared in March 2001 and its key recommendations are part of the
reforms to the procurement system that are part of the proposedPolicy Matrix.
125.    Some of the key preliminary conclusions of the CFAA which are relevant to the
context of the FIALprogram focus on the following areas: (a) an overall weakness of the
financial management processes which cannot adequately enforce budgetary constraints;
(b) a fragmented payments system; (c) the need to develop subsidiary systems to the
Integrated Financial Information System (SIIF) to fulfill information requirements for
appropriate decisionmaking; (d) deficiencies in the information provided by the budget
oversight agencies; (e) inadequate budgetary classification structures; and (f)insufficient
andinadequatelegislative oversight of the public expenditure process, among others.


C. ENVIRONMENTAL      ASPECTS


126.    Being a structural adjustment program, the environmental provisions of OD8.60
apply to this operation and, consequently, an environmental rating i s not required.
However, there is one issue regarding the tax reform supportedby the program that needs
to be addressed. Law 788 eliminated the capital gains (or "occasional gains") tax
exemption for individuals involuntarily selling their property to the State for public works
(through eminent domain), creating a conflict with the Bank's policy on involuntary
resettlement that mandates fair net compensation to the seller. Through the elimination
of this tax exemption, the seller now faces a net patrimonial loss. A joint proposal on the



                                                                                          36

reestablishment of fair net compensation will be prepared for the next loan of the
programin close collaboration with the government.


D. BENEFITS

127.     Fiscal Adjustment. The reformprogram supported by the FIAL I1would put the
NFPS accounts on a more sustainable path. Each of its proposed measures carries fiscal
implications, which are singledout inthe government's projections, through 2006, shown
in Table 7.      The reforms are projected to improve the overall balance of the Non-
Financial Public Sector by 1.7 percent of GDP in 2003, and by over 3 percent of GDP in
the following years, relative to the alternative scenarios without reforms. Reform of tax
policy and tax administration makethe largest projected contribution, with the effects of
the referendum and the pension reform contributing most of the rest of the savings.
Whencombinedwith the constitutional referendum, the vertical reforms, and the pension
andlabor reformsjust approved by Congress, the impact of the whole reform package is
projectedto reach 2.8 percent of GDP inprimary surplus.
128.     As official projections, they are necessarily on the optimistic side, in particular,
assuming prompt effects of the pension reforms and a low estimate of military
spending.*l Given the weight of longer-term reforms, the packageof measures supported
by the FIAL I1would prevent-and reverse-an                 otherwise unsustainable debt and debt-
service accumulation, while also protecting social sector expenditures and vulnerable
groups. The CombinedPublic Sector deficit of 4 percent of GDP would be cut almost in
half by 2006.       Ifnoreformswereimplementedorifthesereforms wereseriously
delayed, the NFPS would remain on an unsustainable path, and probably spiral into
protracted, increasing deficits. Instead, as a result of the reform program, the public
sector's debt path i s changing significantly, putting the public-debt-to-GDP ratio on a
more manageablepath.




*'      ~




  The projections on savings due to a reduction of the transfers to the pension system are based on the
reform passedthis year and to an update on its database which revealed a multi-affiliation problem, where a
number of affiliates contributing to private pension funds should have been contributing to the ISS.
Solving that problem will bring additional income to the government, but does not yet make the ISS
completely solvent.


                                                                                                       37

 otal Revenues                                                          29.6
 Current Revenues                                                       29.6    29.8  29.4   29.2

  Tax Revenues                                                          19.2    20.9  20.6   20.6
    of which : Reforms of Tax Policy andAdministration                          I.2    1.7    1.9
  Non-Tax Revenues                                                      10.4    8.9    8.8    8.6
   Property Income                                                       1.3    0.8    0.7    0.6
   OperationalSurplus of Public Enterprises                             4.2     3.1    3.1    3.6
  Other                                                                 4.8     4.4    4.4    4.4
   of which: Public Asset Management                                            0.0    0.0    0.0
 otal Expenditureand Net Lending                                        33.3    32.1  31.4   31.1
 Current Expenditures                                                   24.9    24.8  24.1   23.8
    of which: Effect of Referendum                                              -1.2  -0.8   -0.8
  Wages andSalaries                                                     7.5     6.5    6.5    6.5
     of which: elimination Of postsfor vacancies andretirees                    -0.1  -0.2   -0.2
 Goods andServices andOther                                             3.5     3.1    3.0    2.9
  Interest                                                              5.0     5.0    4.8    4.1
    Extemal                                                             2.3     2.3    2.3    2.2
    Intemal                                                             2.8     2.7    2.5    2.5
  Transfersto Private Sector                                            9.8     10.2   9.9    9.1
     of which ; Savings Dueto Legal Defenseof the State                         0.0    -0.1   -0.1
     of which ; Pension Reform                                                  -0.4   -0.9   -1.3

  Other                                                                 -0.9    0.0    0.0    0.0


 Capital Expenditure                                                    8.3     7.3    1.3    7.3

     of which: Reform of Law 80 (for contracting) andon-line govemment          -0.2   -0.4   -0.4
     Fixed Capital Formation, cashbasis                                 8.2     7.2    1.2    1.2
   Transfers                                                            0.1     0.1    0.1    0.1
  Net Lending                                                           0.1     0.0    0.0    0.0
  Statistical Discrepancy                                               0.2     0.0    0.0    0.0


 on financial publicsector balance                                      -3.5    -2.3   -2.0   -1.9
 'uasi-fiscalbalance                                                    0.7     0.4    0.3    0.3
 ogafin balance                                                         0.2     0.3    0.3    0.3
 et cost of financial restructuring                                     -0.7    -0.5   -0.5  -0.5
 lverallbalance                                                         -3.3    -2.1   -1.9   -1.8
 lverailFinancing                                                       3.2     2.1    2.0    1.9


 lemorandumitem:
 entral Government Fiscal Balance                                       -5.7    -4.0   -2.6   -2.4
 FPS Primary Balance, with reforms                                      1.5      2.7   2.8    2.8
 FPS Primary Balance, no reforms                                        1.5     -0.4   -1.2   -1.8
 lebt Stock
 ource: Minisuy of Finance, IMP and World Bank Estimates



129.          Improved Quality and Coverage of Public Service Delivery. The program is
designed to encourage improvements in public sector delivery through a variety of
instruments, including (a) performance-based incentives for accessing resources for
education at the subnational level; (b) management contracts with two key government
agencies (ICBF and SENA), developed to encourage the achievement of the ambitious
goals of their strategic plans; and (c) the introduction of elements of accountability for
results in the new budgeting legal framework. Furthermore, there should be important
indirect effects on service delivery from all other elements of the program, including




                                                                                                 38

more efficient asset management at the agency level and improved procurement
processes.
 130.    Improved Governance andTransparency. A number of studies have identified
the capture of the State by special interests as one of the most damaging elements of
corruption.22 State capture can come about through "legal" mechanisms, such as the
passage of laws that create permanent expenditure entitlements or tax exemptions for
certain interest groups that carry enough political or economic weight to lobby
effectively. These dimensions of state capture are confronted directly by the measures
supported by the program. First, the tax reform supported by FIAL Ihad as one of its
explicit objectives the elimination of tax exemptions, in order to broaden the base and
remove distortions. Second, the budget reformhas also among its explicit objectives the
rationalization of permanent expenditure entitlements and stricter guidelines for forward
budgeting (which has been used to "reserve" space in future budgets often without
justification).    Overall, the program is expected to have a significant positive impact on
governance andthe reduction of state capture.


E. RISKS

 131. The proposed program carries considerable risks. With regard to internal risks,
the first i s that the overall political context, including the conflict and violence associated
with illegal drug activity, could escalate, which would negatively impact the
implementation of the program. Although Colombia is deeply committed to ending the
violence that has plagued the country for decades, and has obtained the pledge of the
international community to support this endeavor, the conflict could still intensify during
the next few years. The FIAL supports reforms that will help liberate resources to
address the country's priorities during transition from the conflict to the postconflict era.
The FIAL will also support introduction of institutional reforms that would help
consolidate peace and stability during the postconflict era.
 132.    Second, due to the internal conflict the government may be unable to endure
prolonged social disruptions and resistance from major interest groups (such as teachers
and health sector unions) that couldderail the reform agenda and leadto more social and
political instability. The government i s reducing this risk by working with political
parties, Congress, the Judiciary, and independent auditing and control agencies in the
formation of a broad-based state coalition that ensures continuity of reforms within the
public sector. The program supported by the proposed loan promotes the joint effort of
all branches of the Colombian state, private capital, and civil society through built-in
participatory, consultation, and other consensus-building mechanisms.               Consensus-
buildinginstrumentshavebeenincorporated ineach one of the proposedcomponents and
in the overall management of the reform process. If successfully applied, consultation
and evaluation should be sufficient to mobilize government and nongovernment
institutions in support of the reforms, and overcome resistance from particular interests
that have previously captured the State.


22"Corrupcidn, DesempeAo Institucional y Gobemabilidad" (Corruption Perception Survey); Bog&,
Colombia,World Bank, 2002.


                                                                                            3 9

133.    The referendum approved by Congress in December 2002 and authorized by the
Constitutional Court inJuly 2003 contains several key reforms and will be placed before
the people on October 25th, 2003. There is of course the risk that the referendum
approved by Congress will not be supported by the population. The government i s
already planning on substitute measures in case the referendum i s not approved by the
people. Those substitutemeasures would include (a) gradual elimination of some special
pension regimes through legal reform and collective bargaining, (b) law reform proposals
and administrative measures to ensure expenditure cuts and additional tax revenues with
a fiscal effect that i s at least equivalent to the expected impact of the current expenditure
freeze, and (c) the national government putting pressure on subnational governments that
currently receive royalty transfers to concentrate their project proposals in the education
sector. It should be noted, however, that the referendum is directly related to part of one
component of the FIAL (Incentives for Efficiency Gains), so a defeat of the referendum
would not be catastrophic for the overall program or threatenits continuation.
134.    Third, through external or internal shocks, the fiscal situation may deteriorate,
which wouldjeopardize the macroeconomic situation. The World Bank program and that
of the IMF and IDB are intended to lessen this risk by demonstrating active, visible
support of the government's proposed fiscal and public sector adjustments.                The
macroeconomic situation may also be weakened b y external factors such as regional
political or economic instability or further deterioration of the terms of trade.          On
balance, consequently, the FIAL is judged to be a "high-risk, high-return" program.
Therefore, it will be essentialto maintaina close working relationship with the client, and
to provide ample, ongoing dialogue and assistance duringthe implementationperiod. To
this end, the parallel TAL (MAFPII) wiil provide an important opportunity for the Bank
to closely accompany the program. The supervision activities of MAFPII will be a
fundamental vehicle to maintainfrequent coordination with the Government counterparts.
All these reflect the belief that, because this program would form the core of the Bank's
interventions inColombia, its successful implementation will be critical.


F.SOCIALIMPACTOFTHEREFORMS


135.    Colombia's social conflict constitutes one of the most determiningelements of its
fiscal and public sector reform requirements and prospects. The Government has
successfully established a climate of dialogue and understandingbacked by determined
application of its laws to contain social movements within the constitutional order. It has
worked in close collaboration with Congress and political parties to enact substantial
reforms that had been impossibleto achieve in previous administrations. Moreover, the
Government is inviting the population at large to vote on a referendum that will
substantially amend the Constitution. The government also offers a package of vertical
and horizontal reforms of the public sector aimed at enhancing transparency and
accountability, citizen participation inpublic affairs, public administrative efficiency, and
higher coverageand quality of servicedelivery.
136.    This program intends to ensure the feasibility and sustainability of this package of
reforms by strengthening the fiscal capacity and the adequacy of government actions,


                                                                                           40

while simultaneously minimizing risks in the government's comprehensive, multisector
reforms. Ifthis package is successfully implementedand maintained after the change of
administration, Colombia should have a public sector that is more responsive to citizen
demands, more accountable, and more participatory. For the broader citizenry it can be
expectedthat the reforms will contribute to better service delivery and a more transparent
form of government.
137.   The public sector reform process includes the elimination of at least 40,000 jobs
inthe central administration, of which 30,000 will comefrom the elimination of theposts
of employees who reach retirement during the next few years, and the rest from the
elimination of staffed positions. All staff deemed redundant will receive the legally
established severance package, and those who are not legally entitled to removal benefits
(such as temporary or directly appointed staff) will receive at least one year's salary as
severance. Inaddition, all those who lose their employment will be entitled to participate
ina retraining and career-counselingprogram. Finally, the government has indicated its
commitment to the protection of vulnerable groups and will ensure that single mothers
without job alternatives, the handicapped, and those about to reach retirement age w i l l
not beremoved.
138.   Inadditionto the reduction inpublic sector employment, there are other measures
in the government's reform agenda that have an unquestionably negative effect on the
country's lower-income groups. The most evident is the introduction of the VAT on all
previously exempt goods and services, including basic foodstuffs, education, health, and
transportation, which has a higher proportional impact on the poor. The broadening of
the VAT base is in line with international best practices in tax policy, but its impact on
the poor shouldbe mitigated through focalized expenditure, at leastinthe short run.
139.   In order to compensate for the social impact of the fiscal adjustment and the
effects of the armed conflict in depressed areas of the country, the government has
bolstered its social protection network. One of the main programs of this network is the
Red de Apoyo Social-RAS,       which for 2003-2005 i s expected to disburse over US$500
million with the support of the Bank and the IDB.23The largest component of the RAS i s
Fumilius en Accidn which provides a cash subsidy to 350.000 low income families in the
form of a monthly $20 nutrition grant per family subject to regular visits by children
under 7 to health centers and a $3-$6 subsidy per child to promote school attendance in
both elementary and secondary education. Government expenditure on this program
doubled between 2002 and 2003 and total expenditure on the social protection network
reached 0.5 percent of GDP. The government i s committed to sustaining this level of
investment through end-2006.
140.   Although the FIAL measures may have a short-term negative effect on
unemployment and distribution of income (albeit mitigated through substantial social
expenditure), the long-term effect will be unquestionably pro-poor. First, it will help
protect the macroeconomic framework of the country by reducing the likelihood of
widespread government fiscal crises. This is important since, as noted, the Bank's


23BIRF-7017(EmpleoenAccidn Program, US $100 million), BIRF-7050(Familias en Accidn Program,
US $150million) andIDB-1280/OC-C0(ReddeApoyo Social Program, US $270million).




                                                                                           41

analysis shows that negative macro shocks are the most important cause of poverty
increases in Colombia.      Second, the FIAL will also ensure that through the fiscal
strengthening program, in particular the tax reforms, more resources will become
available to help ensure the allocation of adequate public resources to social programs
and reduce the insecurity that affects particularly those that lack the resources to protect
themselves.    This is especially pertinent for education and health, facilitating the
provision of public services for the poor. Third, the FIAL supports measures to improve
the efficiency and coverage of these services, benefiting the poor directly. This i s to be
achieved through better budgeting, the results agreements and their evaluation, and more
transparent procurement. Together these should ensure that essential public services are
more efficiently available to those who could not otherwise obtainthem on their own.
141. Monitoring Arrangements. The Government, with the support of the Bank, has
defined a strategy to monitor the social impact of the policy measures of the FIAL
program. The first step consists of the construction of a detailed hypothesis on the social,
poverty, and income distribution impacts of the individual components of the reform
program, expanding it to the aggregate level, and factoring in the mitigating measures
being undertaken through incremental social expenditure.          Once this hypothesis i s
defined, the required monitoring inputs identified (such as the household survey and
other statistical data), and the cost of carrying out this exercise is measured, DNP and
MHCPintendto carry out periodic reviews and assessments. It is expected that for FIAL
111,the DNP will have completed the hypothesis, identified datasources, and carried out
a preliminary exercise on impact measurement.




                                                                                         42

                        Annex I




          (Translated fromOriginal inSpanish)




             REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA




              MINISTRY OF FINANCE
      AND NATIONAL PLANNINGDEPARTMENT




LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICYTO THEWORLD BANK




               Bogoth, October 20,2003




                                                 43

                                                                                Annex I

                                                               Bogoti, October 20,2003




Mister
JAMES D.WOLFENSOHN
President
WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C.


Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:


Since the beginning of the Administration of President Uribe-Velez in August 2002, the
expansion of the World Bank program for Colombia (CAS) and the important
disbursementsof the loan program by the development multilateral agencies have been
one of the most overwhelming evidences of support to the country. The World Bank and
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) have impeccably observed the
commitments acquired with the country and have contributed to the recovery of
confidence on the stability of the Colombian economy and the reestablishment of its
access to the markets. This evidence of confidence has been of primordial importance for
the performance of an ambitious plan of reforms, a good portion of which was already
approvedby the Congress of the Republic andis under implementation process.


We are pleasedto present you in the attacheddocument, an update of the Political Letter
we submitted to the Bank in the month of January this year for the development of the
first Fiscal and Institutional Programmatic (FIAL-I) loan. In this update we present you
the recent evolution of the economic condition of the country and, within such context, a
synthesis of the purposes and the content of the policies and reforms we have already
started.


The Government recognizes that some risks may threat the suitable implementation of the
program, including an insufficient support to the economic initiatives included in the
Referendum, a higher volatility of the outside markets and an unanticipated increase of
the security expense. Knowingly, the Government has identifieda number of contingency
measures designed for protecting the program. Such measures include additional taxes
and an early implementation of some of the measuresdiscussedinthis document.


Finally, the Government is committed to the programpresentedin this document and it is
also pleasedto approve the accompaniment and the financial support of the World Bank.



                                                                                      44

Inattention to the measures taken and implemented, the Governmentis thankful for their
quick consideration by the Bank's Directors of the second fiscal and institutional
programmatic loan. The Government i s at the disposal of the Bank's technical teams in
order to prepare a joint definition of future loan programs in the extent the reforms
included in this program with the Bank are consolidated.




                                                                                   45

          I.TheContextandtheMacroeconomicandSecuritySituation

                               A. THEGENERALCONTEXT

1.    Colombia has reached a considerable macroeconomic stability since the 1998 -
  1999 crisis, in spite of the worsening of the violence. Fiscal consolidation has
  progressed, inflation has been reduced and the financial system i s showing signs of
  strength.

2.    With an interruption in the middle of the year 2002, these achievements allowed
  the country to gain access to the international markets of credit and guaranteed the
  stability of the exchange rate. Inthe middle of the year 2002, within an environment
  of regional instability, the spreads of sovereign bonds increased considerably and the
  peso devaluated in consequence. This situation was aggravated by an increase in the
  fiscal deficit and an unprecedented deterioration of the armed conflict, as a result of
  the events occurred during the peace processes of the time.

3.    Confronting an adverse regional environment and enormous fiscal problems,
  some important budgetary cut offs were approved for the year 2003, a one-time net
  worth tax was established and the Congress approved a package of tax and control
  measures without precedents. Some decrees addressed to cut expenses, benefits or
  subsidies were also issued: the rate for the Tax Refunding Certificate (CERT) was
  reduced to zero, and non obligatory benefits at territorial level and the vacancies that
  had not been filled since July 2002 were suppressed too. In a parallel manner, the
  Government started to design and establish an ambitious program to reduce and
  restructure the public administration.

4.    The Government is aware that the sustainability of the public debt should be
  supported on solid structural reforms and not on optimistic scenarios of economic
  growth or on risky hypothesis about the behavior of the exchange rate or the interest
  rate. Without any doubt, the support of the World Bank i s essential for the progress of
  the reforms. Inparticular, the support of the Bank i s of primary importance while the
  high interest rates the country is paying nowadays are reduced: almost 25% of the
  CentralNational Government expenditure is representedby the payment of interest.

5.    Duringthe year 2002, the real growth of GDP was close to 1.7%, inflation was
  6.99%, the deficit of the current account remained inlevels close to 1.8% of the GDP
  and Net International Reserves grew in an approximate amount of US$220 million.
  For the year 2003, a recovery of the economic growth with stability i s expected: the
  growth rate will be between2% and 2.5%, the inflation target is between 5% and 6%,
  and the deficit inthe current account will reduce to 2.5% of the GDP.

6.    For the year 2003, the fiscal deficit target was set at 2.5% of GDP. However,
  undeferable expenses prompted the revision of this target, now standing at 2.8% of
  GDP for the end of this year. This change was made in consultation and coordination
  with the IMF.



                                                                                       46

7.     In order to reach the fiscal objective, the Government has taken all the necessary
   measures such as the approval of the tax reform. Currently, we are still expecting the
   result of the Referendumthat includes atax adjustment component, which is expected
   to generate savings for 0.78% of GDP ($1.6 billion) in 2003 and 1.24% of GDP
   ($3.018 billion) inthe year 2004.


                           B. THE2002 -2006PERSPECTIVES


8.     The macroeconomic scenario for the next four years i s based on a current account
   deficit that oscillates around 2.1% of GDP, an investment rate that is around 14% of
   GDP and a domestic savings rate higher than 12% of GDP. The financing of the
   capital account will be carried out through the recovery of the direct foreign
   investment and of the net borrowing of the private sector. The net borrowing of the
   public sector will continue beingimportant.

9.     The balance of the public sector shows a deficit financed with funds from internal
   credit (between 2.1% and 1.7% of GDP) and external credit (between 0.3% and 0.4%
   of GDP). The gradualnessof the adjustment on the excess expenditure that subsists in
   the public sector will be financed with the savings generatedby the adjustment of the
   private sector. The credibility of the adjustment in the public sector i s given by the
   scope of the structural reforms currently inprogress.

10     The fiscal consolidation will continue in the medium term. The economic
   conditions are expected to improve in 2004, and the actual growth of the GDP i s
   expected to be higher than 3 percent starting this year. The higher deficit will be
   financed with direct investment, a continuous support of multilateral banking, and the
   access of the country to the international financial markets. The monetary policy w i l l
   be addressed to support a moderate reduction of the inflation within an objective
   inflation scheme and a floating exchangerate.

11.    The deficit inthe public sector will be reduced to 2.5 per cent of GDP, supported
   by the measures described above. Although this target i s slightly higher than the one
   initially established, the commitment of the Government with fiscal stability i s
   maintained in such a way that the debt of the non financial public sector will be
   reduced below 50 per cent of the GDP in the mediumterm. The Government expects
   that a sustained reduction of the debt, a continuous improvement of the indicators of
   economic vulnerability and a sound economic management will increase the
   confidence and allow the Colombian credit qualification to improve and the cost of
   borrowing to decrease.

12.    Within the frame of the macroeconomic policy, the Colombian Government
   entered into a Stand By Agreement (SBA) with the IMF for DEG 1,548 million for



                                                                                        47

   the next two years. One of the main purposes of the program is the reduction of the
   fiscal deficit en two points of GDP through structural reforms indifferent fronts.


              11.TheProgramofFiscalandInstitutionalAdjustment -11

                                     A. OBJECTZVES

13.    The Program of Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment to be financed with World
   Bank quick-disbursing funds has as its objective to continue accompanying the
   Government of Colombia along the process of fiscal adjustment and the introduction
   of public management tools that allow a more efficient and transparent assignment
   and administration of the public funds.

14.    Inorder to meetthis objective, the Government hasbeenimplementinga group of
   structural measures that will allow: an increase in fiscal income through an effective
   expansion of the tax base and the elimination of tax exemptions, the progressive
   flexibility of the expenditure budget, the introduction of fiscal responsibility
   principles and their integration to the budgetary system, the strengthening of
   transparency in procurement, and the restructuring of public employment. We refer
   herein to the progress of eachof them:

                           B. COMPONENTSOF THEPROGRAM

                            1.TaxReform andAdministration

15.    Inorder to increaseincome, improve taxation equity andreduce collection costs,
   Law 788 of 2002 approved a tax reform. This law eliminates tax exemptions and
   enlarges the VAT basis and creates a new classification of salary exemptions, among
   others. The new measures are expected to increase tax collection around 0.9% of
   GDP in2003, 1.2% in2004 and 1.7% in2005. To date, the regulatory decrees of Law
   788, 2002 that represent a fiscal impact on tax collection and that should be applied
   for the operations performed since the first day of January 2003 have been issued on
   the matter of value added tax, the assessment to financial movements, withholding
   taxes and deferred interest for fiscal effects. Some provisions included in Law 788,
   2002 are currently ineffect anddo not requireany regulation.

16.    Inaddition to the efforts that on the matter of the regulation of the tax reform the
   Government have been performing, the FIAL has accompanied the DIAN (National
   Tax and Customs Bureau) in its efforts of tax administration. The development of a
   methodology that allows to obtain, process and use the information relatedto interests
   paid and perceived by the tax payers during a determined taxable term i s highlighted.
   This information will allow the DIAN to develop specific control programs. The
   issuance of Law 788, 2002 has allowed the DIAN to perform a general control of
   those great taxpayers affected by the new taxes. In addition, the new Law will allow
   the DIANto sanction those taxpayers who do not observe their tax obligations. The



                                                                                        48

   DIANhas alsoprogressedinthe establishmentof cost and timeindicatorsrequiredby
   the taxpayers to observe their tax and customs obligations. Such indicators will be
   published from time to time and will also be part of the DUN internal management
   programs.


                          2. Renewal of the Public Administration


17.    The Government has continued with its actions addressed toward the
   modernization and rationalization of the public administration, through the merging
   of ministries (6), the elimination of unnecessary entities and offices, the suppression
   of some diplomatic bodies, the abolition of fringe benefits and the elimination of
   vacancies.

18.    The Government has estimated that the savings derived from the implementation
   of the measures above will increasethe GDPfrom 0.1% in2003 to 0.6% in2005. It is
   important to highlight that the Congress approved, in the last month of December, a
   Law that grants special powers to the President of the Republic to carry out the
   described reforms (such powers allowed the restructuring of 17entities).

19.    For the dimension of the administration labor force to be suitable, a goal for
   reducing the operation costs and another goal for increasing the proportion of the
   officials devoted to the performance of missionary tasks (70%) have been established.

20.    The vertical reforms also provide for the restructuring of at least 20 entities in the
   decentralized sector, under the premise that their continuance depends upon their
   financial feasibility. Among the entities subject to restructuring are several regional
   power companies and a large number of public hospitals; the Colombian Institute of
   Social Security (ISS), Telecom and ECOPETROL were already subjected to said
   process inaccordancewith the special powers granted by Law 790, 2002.

21.    Those reforms considered of transversal type have had important progresses
   statedherein below:

       A policy on the issue of public procurement is being prepared, in which the
       designof a new regulatory and institutionalframe for government procurement i s
       anticipated in order to allow the improvement of process transparency,
       eliminating the possibility of influencing the selection of the bidders, but which at
       the same time increasesthe efficiency (especially at sector level), incrementing its
       impact on the productive sector and generating a reduction of the transaction costs
       for public entities, as well as a substantial modification of the current practices
       usedinsuchmatter.

       The creation of a new governmental strategy addressedto thejuridical defense of
       the Nation is a basic issue. The Government will prepare a diagnosis that allows
       to develop a preventive strategy, designing a "quality and protection guaranty



                                                                                          49

 system" that includes especial provisions for the highrisk sectors (transportation,
 defense, justice and power, etc.). Alternative mechanisms for the solution of
.conflicts will be proposedand the necessary regulatory reforms will be identified.

 The design of an integral policy for the productive management of those assets
 belonging to the State has allowed to prepare inventories and to define
 mechanisms for their assessment andjuridical righting, and it has also established
 a timetable for their management. A regulatory framework is expected to be
 prepared for the acquisition, registration and use of new assets by Government
.entities.

 The establishment of a result benchmarking and policy follow up system for all
 the ministries and administrative departments is promoting the assessment of the
 main Government policies and programs, seeking that, as a whole, these aspects
 make more efficient and transparent the assignment of the funds, improve the
 efficacy of the policies, the programs and the Country institutions, and allow to
.present accountsto the citizens.

 For the public employment system, a new institutional scheme is being designed,
 addressed to the regulation and the administration of an employment policy that
 centralizes the preparation of a respective policy and the issuance of regulations,
 and which decentralizes their management, leaving their application in the hands
 of each entity. Access according to merit, job keeping according to performance
 and flexibility as for employment termination are the characteristic principles of
.the new schemeof public employment inColombia.

 The Government i s establishing the principles that will allow to rationalize the
 Governmental activity in the regulatory and control bodies, for the purposes of
 minimizing the transaction costs for the State, those regulated, supervised and
 controlled costs, and will establish a single juridical system for the regulatory,
.supervisory and controlling bodies.

 The unification of information systems within the National Public Administration
 i s being developed through an integral strategy that seeks the acquisition,
 administration, and use of strategic information, and an adequate institutional
.scheme.

 The strengthening of electronic Government will allow the incorporation and use
 of the informatics technology for the development of operations in Governmental
 entities, both in their internal activities as well as in their relations with other
 public and private entities, the citizens and the productive sector. The final
 purposeis to facilitate the relations of each citizen with the administration, and to
 increase the efficiency, transparency and a territorially balanced development of
 the State.




                                                                                  50

       A strategy addressed to eliminate useless procedures seeks to establish a policy
       frame that allows to rationalize the procedures inpublic administration, bothin its
       internal operation as well as in its relations with the citizens. The Government is
       taking actions in order to design and establish projects for procedure
       rationalization inentities of public administration, according to their benefit / cost
       relation within the identified projects. The Government will also design a
       Governmental program in line for rendering services and procedures to
       entrepreneursand citizens.

       Finally, a cross strategy of internal control attempts to redefine the missionary
       objectives of internal control in Governmental entities, and for such purpose some
       actions are beingtaken addressedto update the inventory of internalprocedures in
       central administration, defining a policy frame for exercising internal control in
       Governmental entities, establishing a relation between the mentioned policy and
       the design, application and fulfillment of the internal transactions and procedures
       that will promote the transparency, efficacy andefficiency of the organization.


22.    The effectiveness of the modernization and rationalization actions of Public
   Administration and the changes in performance in the intervened sectors will be the
   object of follow up and assessment actions. With such purpose the respective base
   lines are currently being drawn, which will be updated along the term of the program,
   and will constitute valuable informationfor decision makingin order to assign budget
   and to submit accounts within the Government and to the citizens.



                        3. Fiscal Responsibility and Transparency

23.    InJuly 9 of this year, the Fiscal Responsibility Law was approved. This law seeks
   to include Colombia within a group of countries that assumetheir fiscal problem with
   responsibility, through the approval of laws that rationalize the fiscal activity and
   make the public debt sustainable, necessary conditions to generate an economic
   stability that allows the country to achieve its development.


24.    This Law seeks the stability of the public debt, organizing the process of
   budgetary planning, in order to make it coherent with the financial and
   macroeconomic forecasts, allowing the public scrutiny of fiscal situation and
   widening the debate on fiscal policy through the Congress of the Republic. Inorder
   to meet these objectives, the Law provides that the National Government should
   present before June 15thof each fiscal year, to the Economic Commissions of the
   Honorable Congress of the Republic, a Medium Term Fiscal Framework, after being
   studied and discussed during the first debate of the Budget Annual Law. This
   Framework will include, as a minimum, the Financial Plan, a multi-annual
   macroeconomic program, the goals of primary surplus, a report on macroeconomic
   and fiscal results of the previous fiscal term, an assessment of the m a i n semi-fiscal
   activities carried out by the public sector, an estimate of the fiscal cost of the existing


                                                                                           51

   tax exemptions, a list of the contingent liabilities that could affect the financial
   situation of the Nation, as well as the fiscal cost of the laws approved in the previous
   fiscal term. This applies inan equivalent manner to the central Government and to the
   territorial entities.


25.    The Law also seeks to put on a sound basis the budgetary process of those
   practices that have traditionally increased the costs to the Nation. This regulation
   clarifies the budgetary process and makes it coherent with sustainable public finances
   inthe short andmediumterms. As for forward budgetingrequests, their authorization
   should respond to a serious planning process, coherent with the annual financial plans
   and, therefore, with the sustainability of the public finances. For this reason, the law
   grants the CONFIS the competence for granting the authorizations addressed to
   commit future budgetsand includes some restrictions in order to rationalize their use.
   Infirst term, itprovidesthatnocommonfuture terms maybegrantedthat exceedthe
   termof the Government. However, an option remains of granting exceptionalforward
   appropriations for those projects the CONPES declares as of strategic importance for
   the country. Insecond term, the need of having a minimalappropriationinthe current
   fiscal term i s established, in which said authorization i s requested, if dealing with an
   authorization addressedto compromise common future terms.


26.    Inline with the objective that the multi-annual analysisguides the expense and
   public borrowing decisions, the payment capacity of the territorial entities will be
   analyzed for the whole period of the loan term and not only for the current term. In
   addition, the treasury loans are regulated in order to preserve the margin of the fiscal
   maneuver the territorial administrations have.



                                   4. Budgetary Reform


27.    At this time there is a preliminary project of the articles of reform to the Budget
   Organic Statute, which is the product of the work performed along the last six months
   and that takes into account the recommendations made by the International Monetary
   Fundon the issue, and the different conversations held with the World Bank and the
   Inter-American Development Bank.

28.     The Presidential Message that accompanied the bill of the 2004 budget includes
   important progresses on the subject of budget transparency and communication. A
   reading thereof i s included according to the purpose the public expense seeks, some
   progress has been achieved in the observance of the Law of Fiscal Responsibility
   including information about the fiscal sustainability in the medium term, contingent
   liabilities, fiscal cost of tax exemptions, a sensitivity analysis of the budget to
   macroeconomic variables and a conversion between the Financial Plan and the budget
   of the Nation.




                                                                                           52

29.   On the issue of budgetary classification, Colombia should get close to the
   international standards, and the first steps have been taken for such purpose. A
   contract was recently signed in order to carry out both the conceptualization and the
   implementationof a new systemfor budgetary classification.




                                                                                    53

                                                                                      Annex 11
                                                                    InternationalMonetary Fund
October 15, 2003                                                    700 19th Street, NW
                                                                    Washington, D.C.20431 USA



                            Colombia: FundRelations Note


On June 11,2003 the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund(IMF)
completed the first review of Colombia's performance under atwo-year, SDR 1.5 billion
(about US$2.1 billion) Stand-By Arrangement, which was approvedon January 15, 2003
(see Press ReleaseNo. 03/04). The completion of this review enables the release of SDR
193.5 million (about US$274 million) to Colombia, bringingthe total amount available to
SDR 580.5 million (about US$822million). Sofar the country has not made any
drawings under the arrangement.

Background

Underthe authorities' program, economic performance hasbeenmostly favorable. The
economy grew by over 3 percentinthe first semester of 2003 ledby strong growth in
construction andmanufacturing. Inflationhas declined since April due to falling food
prices and stable foreign exchangerate. The combined public sector deficit has remained
on track through June 2003. The Banco de la Repiiblicahas kept its main refinancing
interest rate steady after increasing its rates by 200 basis points inearly-2003. Congress
approvedthe fiscal responsibility law inJune 2003, which was a structural benchmark.
The government restructured the state petroleum andtelecommunications enterprises,
going beyond the steps envisaged inthe program.

Executive Board Assessment at the Completion of the FirstReview

The government of Colombiais carrying out a strong economic reformprogramaimed at
encouraging faster economic growth and improving social equity. Inparticular, the
government'sprogramfocuses onbringingthe overall public sector deficit down through
a wide range of initiatives, includingseveral important structural measures such as tax,
pension, and labor reforms. A lower fiscal deficit is essential to reduce gradually the
public debt burden, which inturn will ease pressureson interest rates and stimulate
growth.

The government is commendedfor its strong commitment to economic reform. All
performancecriteria and structural benchmarksfor end-2002 and end-March 2003 have
beenobserved. This strong policy implementation has already helped to improve
economic performance. The economy showed signs of recovery inthe first quarter of
2003, with a slight decline inunemployment and renewed access to international capital
markets.




                                                                                             54

For 2003, the government i s committed to reducing the overall public sector deficit to 2
?hpercentof GDP, andis preparedto implementcontingency measures,if necessary, to
achieve this target. At the same time, the government intends to continue with key
structural reforms, including further steps to strengthen expenditure management and
modernizepublic administration. The central bank already raised its main refinancing
rate and i s committed to takingfurther measures as necessary to control inflationary
pressures.

Colombia's economic reform programhas helped reduce the risks to the economic
outlook. Nonetheless, the authorities will need to sustain the implementation of the
programin order to lay the basis for a durable recovery.


For questions please contact Mr.A. Espejo, Senior Economist, South/Central American I,
Western Hemisphere Department, IMF, ext. 37152.




                                                                                         55

4
x






U
U


U
n
U



4
2
      e,
      0
      2D
     .C




     --x
      0
     U


     YE
     .3

     *h
     0

     3
     2
     *
     0
     C
     e,
     %
     id
     .5
     Ld



     .5
     8
     a0
     .e
     E
     sarr
     U
     cd     a    ar

     .e

3
3



4
3c

x
0
4c

                     g
                     .3
                     s3




            -$ ta



      .*
      S
      0
      i-)
      m
      .*
      0
      1
      a
      m
      a
      s8
      I


      wl


      0
      wl
      s
      G
      0

      b.

a    C


                                  Annex TV

Colombia at a glance              I/l.uE?




    198  174  134    130   zn
    315  371  301    ZSfQ    @




                                         69

   1961       SDOiJ


   27 3          187
   22 a        13 B


               11 a      13.3
               6 2       -5 a
               BO        -6.1


 1967         2m       2QQl

 3,195      13,115    12.369
 1id23        1          TIW         I       I
    36       4 . 5 8   3.083
   925       S,lW      5,EIOB
 5,199      11,533   12,aa
   315
   ne        1,428     1,578
               134       1 s
             3.414     4,469
     5         147       249
     7         193       299
   115         128       118


 1961         2Qm      2QO1

4m9        16,624    14832
6,215      14,4W     18.a40
-1,537       1,224     om
 427        -2,833    -2,975
   249       1.352    2,084
-i,m           358    -1,789
 1"            513    2.955
   437        -6SB    -1.166


             B.009   10,265
 54 5      2,0133 r? 2,2998


 1981        2wx)

4718       34,1181
1 184        1,3P
   21            7
1,120        5,171
   1111        3m       a m
     1            1        1
                                            I
     7          79             F i!3 453

  277          1m       203
1,127         728
  a85       1.37e     1,328
    D           a3    3,380

    a         350       6135
 23           mi        am
   77         245       233
 174           24       135
   85         127       133
   11s       -1cU          3




                                                70

MAP SECTION


