Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 LOAN NUMBER 7201-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated   November 24, 2003 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7201-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 24, 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated October 20, 2003, from the 
Borrower: (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies for fiscal and institutional reform, covering fiscal sustainability, 
public expenditure management, institutional reform and management of public liabilities 
(the Program), which Program consists of actions that have already been taken as 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the Second Phase of the Program), and 
actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near future; (ii)  
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; and (iii) 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and  
 
WHEREAS (B)  on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Second Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower 
by making the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter 
provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the Second Phase of the Program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the Second Phase of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Asset Management” means the Borrower’s institutional and legal 
framework to account for, manage, allocate, maintain, use and dispose of  government 
assets;    
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“Central Bank” means 
Banco de la República, 
the Borrower’s central 
bank; 
(c) “CONPES 
means 
Consejo
 Nacional de Política Económica y Social,
 the 
Borrower’s National Council for Economic and Social Policy; 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(e) “DIAN” 
means 
Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales, 
the 
B
orrower´s Directorate of National Taxes and Customs; 
(f) “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación, 
the Borrower’s 
Planning Department; 
(g) “ICBF” 
means 
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
,
the 
Borrower’s Family Welfare Institute; 
(h) 
“Law 21” means 
Ley d
e
Régimen del Subsidio Familiar, 
the Borrower’s 
Family Subsidy Law,
 
dated January 22, 1982, and duly published in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette on February 5, 1982; 
(i) “Law 
80” 
means 
Estatuto General de Contratación
 
de la
 
Administración 
Pública, 
the Borrowe
r’s Public Procurement Law,
 
dated October 28, 1993, and duly 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette  on October 28, 1993; 
(j) 
“Law 788” means 
Ley de Reforma Tributaria, 
the Borrower’s Tax 
Reform Law,
 
dated December 27, 2002, and duly published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette  on December 27, 2002; 
(k) 
“Law 819” means 
Ley de Responsabilidad Fiscal,
 the Borrower’s Fiscal 
Responsibility Law, dated July 9, 2003, and duly published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette on July 9, 2003; 
(l) “MHCP” 
means 
Ministerio de H
acienda y Crédito Público, 
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; 
(m) 
“Referendum” means the Borrower’s popular consultation process, by 
which the Borrower’s population votes to approve or reject, 
inter alia:
 (a) laws;  (b) 
authorities’ decisions; (c) constitutional reforms; and (d) constitutional assemblies; and 
Page  5
-
4
-
(n) 
“SENA” means 
Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje, 
the Borrower’s 
Learning National Service. 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred fifty 
million Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of one hundred forty-eight 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($148,500,000) from the Loan Account in support 
of the Second Phase of the Program. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank; (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 25, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and  November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program (including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement). 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date February 24, 2004  is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 8 
 
Bogotá, República de Colombia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
57-1-350-9344 
 
57-1-297-1578 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in  Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By/s/ Alberto Moreno 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ David de Ferranti  
Regional Vice President 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
Tobacco,  manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
15-Nov-2009 
10%
15-Nov-2010 
10%
15-Nov-2011 
10%
15-Nov-2012 
10%
15-Nov-2013 
10%
15-Nov-2015 
10%
15-Nov-2016 
10%
15-Nov-2017 
10%
15-Nov-2018 
10%
15-Nov-2019 
10%
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
Page  14
-
13
-
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Second Phase of the Program 
1. 
The execution of the Borrower’s national central government budget for the year 
2003, through the end of the third calendar quarter, prior to Loan initial disbursements, 
has not exceeded 75% of the overall deficit limit in said budget. 
2. 
The Borrower has issued the necessary executive decrees to regulate the 
application of  Law 788. 
3. 
The Borrower, through DIAN, has: (a) developed and implemented software to 
cross reference information with financial institutions to ensure that interest reported by 
them match interest reported by taxpayers; (b) audited at least 50% of large taxpayers (as 
defined in Article 562 of the Borrower’s tax code)  affected by the new taxes; (c) 
established and published indicators of the cost and time required for tax filing 
compliance by taxpayers; and (d) has carried out at least 80 integrated tax and customs 
audits. 
4. 
The Borrower has approved CONPES document number 3252 dated October 20, 
2003, that outlines the strategy for national central government budget reform, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) the elimination or reduction of permanent entitlements and earmarked 
revenues; (b) the regulation of the use of forward budgeting; and (c) the establishment of 
controls over expenditure aggregates. 
5. 
The Borrower’s Executive Branch has submitted to the Borrower’s Congress and 
said Congress has approved, the 2004 budget bill of law, to approve the Borrower’s 2004 
public budget, to include, 
inter alia:
 (a) medium term fiscal outlooks; (b) the calculation 
of tax expenditures and contingent liabilities; and (c) the presentation by functions of the 
Borrower’s government sector, integrating current and capital Borrower’s government 
expenditures. 
6. 
 The Borrower has submitted to popular vote the provision of the Referendum 
that reallocates royalty transfers to educational services. 
7. 
The Borrower’s Ministry of Education has issued a resolution (Resolution 
Number 277/03, dated February 17, 2003), to establish the eligibility criteria to allocate 
economic resources generated from the application of Law 21 for the benefit of public 
education infrastructure projects in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
8. 
The Borrower has approved CONPES document number 3250, dated  October 
20, 2003, establishing, 
inter alia
,
the new policy for legal defense of the state, including 
legal reform if necessary.  
9. 
The Borrower has approved CONPES document number 3249, dated October 20, 
2003, establishing, 
inter alia
:
(a) the principles that apply to government public 
procurement; (b) the creation of a new agency or the assignment to an existing agency of 
public sector procurement responsibilities; and (c) the definition of a strategy for 
developing and implementing e-procurement. 
10. 
The Borrower has proposed to its legislature modifications to the bill of law 
amending Law 80 that incorporate the recommendations of CONPES, including, 
inter 
alia
:
(a) common principles for public procurement; (b) introduction of economic 
considerations into the public procurement process; and (c) institutional framework for 
public procurement. 
11. 
The Borrower has approved CONPES document number 3251, dated October 20, 
2003, establishing the basic principles and strategic planning for Asset Management, 
including, 
inter alia:
 (a) the institutional framework for Asset Management; (b) the 
management information systems required for Asset Management; and (c) the rules and 
procedures for Asset Management.  
12. 
The Borrower, through MHCP and DNP, has signed pilot management 
agreements with SENA and ICBF. 
13. 
The Borrower has approved CONPES document number 3248 dated October 20, 
2003, establishing the overall strategy of public sector reform and a recommendation to 
design indicators on public sector productivity and effectiveness. 
14. 
The Borrower has developed a monitoring and evaluation system for the state 
reform process with indicators of productivity and effectiveness and has widely 
publicized it, including its publication through DNP’s web site. 
15. 
The Borrower has enacted Law Number 819 that regulates, 
inter alia
:
(a) the 
annual presentation of: (i) a medium-term fiscal framework with deficit targets linked to 
debt sustainability; (ii) a report of  fiscal results to congress (including all debt and 
contingent liabilities); and (iii) a financial plan that includes measures to fully 
compensate for any fiscal slippage in the previous year; (b) restrictions on future 
spending obligations of national and sub-national governments; and (c) the obligation to 
include the fiscal impact and source of financing within any new national law that affects 
taxes or expenditures.
Page  17
-
16
-
