Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repqt No. 9038-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 5, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of September 1990)
Currency Unit     -     Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1              -     DA 8.8
DA 1              -     US$0.11
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAD               Banque Algérienne de Développement (Algerian Development Bank)
CNP               Conseil National de Planification (National Planning)
COSU              Centre des Oeuvres Sociales Universitaires (student social
services)
DIE               Directorate of Infrastructure and Equipement (of Ministry of
Universities)
ENA               Ecole Nationale d'Administration
ENS               Ecole Normale Supérieure
ENSET             Ecole Normale Supérieure d'Enseignement Technique
HCR               Haut Commissariat à la Recherche
INES              Institut National d'Enseignement Superieur
MU                Ministère aux Universités (Ministry of Universities)
RC                Review Committee
SAC               Scientific Advisory Council
S&T               Sciences & Technology
UC                University of Constantine
USTHB             Université des Sciences and de la Technologie Houari Boumediene
(Algiers) (University of Science and Technology of Algiers)
USTO              Université des Sciences et de la Technologie d'Oran (University
of Science and Technology of Oran)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UNIVERSITY SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
I. DEVELOPMENT AND CONSOUDATION OF HIGHER EDUCATION  ..............................    1
Background .........................................................                                               1
The Higher Education System  . ....................................................   2
Size and structure ........... .............                   ..............................   2
Access .........................................................                                         2
Govemance and management . ..............................................  3
Research organization and links with industry ...................................   3
Financing ..........................................................,                                    4
Issues in Higher Education .......................................................                                 4
Unsustainable growth and declining quality .....................................   4
Responsiveness to demands from a changing environment ........................   7
Financing mechanisms  .         ..................................................   8
Government Strategy and Bank Lending  ..............                  ...............................   9
Government strategy . ....................................................   9
Bank lending strategy .....................................................  9
Experience with past lending  .         ..............................................  10
Lessons learned and future lending  ............               ..............................  10
Il. THE PROJECT . ......................................................... 11
Background          .........................................................  11
Project Objectives and Scope . ....................................................  1i1
Project Description ...                                            .                                              12
University development plans .........................................................   13
Structure and Management .......................................................    15
Organizational framework  ..  ..........                              ..    ........                    15
Critena for appraisal of future investment proposais ...............................  16
Environmental Impact .........................................................    17
IIl. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  ........................  18
Cost of the Project ...                                                                         ..........  18
Summary of project costs . ................................................. 18
Basis of cost estimates .................................................... 19
Customs duties and taxes . ................................................. 19
Contingency allowances ................................................... 19
Foreign exchange component ......             ........... . ...........................  1I
Incremental recurrent costs  ....................................  20
Project Financing ....................................   20
Project Management and Implementation  ................                        ....................  20
Procurement ....................................                                                        21
Expert Services ....................................  22
Status of Preparation ....................................  22
Disbursements  ....................................  23
Accounts and Audits ....................................  24
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................... 24
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS  .................                                  ...................  25
ANNEXES:           Annex 1: Table 1: Historical Evolution of the Higher Education system  .26
Table 2: Recurrent Budget .28
Annex 2: Table 1: Examples of typical investment proposas .29
Table 2: List of proposas appraised .32
Annex 3: Structure of the Science & Technology streams .34
Annex 4: Guidelines for Appraisal and Monitorng of Investment Proposals .35
This report ls based on the findings of an apprasast mission vwhich visltd Algeria in March 1990. The mission
comprised R. Sack (Education Policy Analyst, mission leader), J. Douek-Hykin (Higher Education Specialist)
and C  VotIe (Assistant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance .|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization. 



DEMOCRTIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UNIVERSITY SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT pROJECT
Loan and Proj oct SUMuary
BOUROUR:          Democratic and Popular Republic of Algerta
a UICIl UEU:    Selected higher education institutions under the supervision
of the Ninistry of Universities (MU).
MIOUUS:           US$65 million
TE1M8:            Repayable in 17 years, including a five year grace period, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Pr1 CT
ODJECTIS:         The proposed project has two major goals: (i) to provide an
institutional model (based on peer review and transparency)
for the allocation of investment resources to higher
education; and (ii) to assist the Government in upgrading
undergraduate  and  postgraduate  teaching  and  research,
concentrating on the three major universities of science and
technology. The project would act as a catalyst for reform
while providing a model for the whole higher education system.
Interventions would be aimed at improving (i) university
management and administration; (ii) curriculum relevance,
teaching quality and teacher qualifications in selected
science and technology degree programs targeted at labor
market needs; and (iii) the contribution of the universities
to regional and national development through the forging of
closer research and training links with local industry.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:      The project would test new institutional arrangements, as a
precursor of an autonomous intermediary institution for the
allocation of Government funds to higher education that is
expected to emerge from the reform process.  It would support
investment proposals selected from those proposed by the
participating universities in the framework of their medium-
term institutional development plans.  Both the plans and the
investment proposals vould be subject to rigorous peer review
and benefit from international scientific advice. The draft
development plans reviewed by the Bank involve delegation of
authority to the participating universities to enter into
contractual arrangements with third parties (for e.g. applied
research) while keeping full control over the resulting income
and over all stages of procurement of goods and services.
Development plans will also contain a set of agreed planning
*cenarios for operating and investment budgets, as well as
undergraduate and graduate enrollment. Eligibility criteria
for project assistance include relevance to national and
regional economic needs, availability of internationally
respected supervisory skills and know-how for implementation,



- ii -
limited net recurrent cost impact and preference for proposals
likely to mobilize complementary resources (e.g. from user
fees or research contracts) and performance indicators for
quality improvement in teaching and research.  The project
vould support local and foreign costs, including incremental
operating costs, for: facility repair/upgrading; equipment
and re-equipment; acquisition and production of educational
materials; overseas and in-country graduate and staff
development  programs;  development  of  data  bases  and
information systems; technical assistance; and collaborative
research and projecta with local industry; etc.  Investment
proposals would be endorsed by a Scientific Advisory Council
(SAC) before approval by the Review Committee (RC) composed
of representatives from governuent and universities; in
addition, proposals above US$1.5 million, or above an
aggregate amount of US$8 million per university, would require
Bank approval in consultation with the RC. Both the SAC and
the RC would be organized by the section in charge of
investment management in the Directorate of Infrastructure and
Equipment (DIE) in the Ministry of Universities.
BENEFITS:         By  providing  a  pilot  model  for  university  investment
financing, based on rigorous appraisal criteria and peer
review and by improving the quality of teaching and research
in science and technology higher education and increasing the
universities' adaptability to changes in their social and
economic environments, the proposed project should contribute
to Algeria's international competitiveness through mastery of
imported technologies and the development of a capacity for
local technological  innovation.   Together,  these project
inputs will improve the chances of success for Government's
policy of qualitative improvement through greater university
autonomy.
RISKS:            The major risks lie in the government's ability to delegate
effective control over university management and the
universities' capacity to assume increased responsibilities.
Project design recognizes that overcoming the institutional
rigidities accumulated over the past 25 years will be a
delicate undertaking that will require substantial incentives
and 'time in order to succeed. The risks are reduced by the
fact that Covernment has already started implementing measures
aimed at decentralizing responsibilities for university
administration, in line with reforms elsewhere in the economy,
and that the project would include material and institutional
support for university planning and managerial capacitv. In
addition, the project would include technical assistance and
management information support for DIE staff as well as
appraisal guidelines and the development of appropriate
monitoring tools.



iii-
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Project Costs                               US$million
Local       Foreign      Total
A.  Staff Development                         1.6            3.7       5.3
B.  Teaching and Research                    39.2          41.3       80.5
C.  Maintenance                               0.6            2.3       2.9
D.  Library & Computing Facilities            2.9           18.7      21.6
E.  Management System                         3.6            1.0       4.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                         47.9          67.0      114.9
Price Contingencies                        6.1           9.0       15.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS1                         54.0           76.0     130.0
Financing Plan
IBRD                                          -            65.0       65.0
Government                                   54.0           11.0      65.0
Total                             54.0           76.0     130.0
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
IBRD FY                      F=Y91    FY92       FY93      M4_        F9
Annual                        6.0      15.0      16.0       16.0      12.0
Cumulative                    6.0     21.0       37.0      53.0       65.0
Economie Rate of Return: NA
1 Including 4.3 million in indirect taxes and duties.



DE!ORTIC AND POPUlAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UNIVERSITY SCINCC AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELPRM    PROJECT
I. DEVELPMENT AND CONSOLIDATION OF HIGHER EDUCATION
1.1       Algeria is in the procesa of introducing, vith Bank support, broad
économic reforme aied at promoting efficiency, raising prodtctive capacity and
tackling its serious unemployment proble.. Increased importance is being given
to market signais, autonomy for public enterprises, an enhunced role for the
private sector, establishment of a sound financial systen, and the pursuit of
macroeconomic policies that allow strong but stable grovth while maintaining
domestic and external balànce. Measures being put in place irnclude, Inter alia,
(i) strengthening the momentum of agricultural and industrial 4evelopment through
decentralization of decision-making and market liberalizatior and (il) improving
competitiveneas in export markets, both of which vill require lmproved scientific
knov-hov and technological innovation. An adequate supply of vell-trained high
level manpover is therefore an important element of a successful reform. The
ability of the higher education system to respond efficiently to the needs of
the economic environment is becoming even more critical as constraints on
available resources available are felt.
1.2       The overwhelming majority of university graduates are still employed
by the administration or State and regional government-controlled enterprises,
ihere pay scales are principally determined by level of formal qualification
attained. An estimated 25X of all graduates vere retained in the education
system itself as secondary/technical school or university teachers in the early
80's, partly due to the rapid expansion of the education system as a whole.
Graduate unemployment appeared for the first time in 1987, the year of major oil
revenue contraction and the resulting budgetary ripples throughout the economy.
At the same time, there is evidence of qualitative mismatches: for example,
shortages of technicians trainable in short-duration higher education programs
for heavy industry, textiles and high-growth services. The ratio of technical
and managerial staff to the total industrial vork-force is a fraction of that
found in even the less advanced EC countries, like Portugal.
1.3       Since Independence, the education and training system han been
characterized by explosive growth.  This han occurred in a context of high
demographic grovth (3.1X per annum over 1965-1985; 2.7X p.a. since) that has
yielded a situation vhere nearly 50Z of the population in currently les* than
15 years old. About 6.6X of Algeria's 1989 GNP vent to recurrent expenditures
in education, as compared to an average of about 4.4X (1985) for the industrial
market economies. The education and training share of the national budget has
increaed significantly in the last decade, fron 25X in 1981 to 33X in 1989 'Y
The gros. primary achool enrollment rate is currently 92Z, compared vith 68X in
Il The tables La àM*"  provide relewat statistical data on the epansion
of higber *ducation.



- 2 -
1965; for secondary school the gross errollment rate is 51%, compared with 7%
in 1965. Similarly, undergraduato enrollnents have exp.anded at an average annual
rate close to 20% since 1981. However, resources devoted to higher education
have increased at a substantially slower pace (average annual rate of 5% in real
terms over the period 1985-89) than that of enrollments.   There has been a
concomitant fall in standards as the system shows the strains of expansion, and
margins for budgetary expansion have been eliminated (below, para. 1.10)
The Higher Education Svstem
1.4       Size and structure.  The vast majority of students in higher education
are enrolled in institutions integrated into the univer3ity s,stem under the
Ministry of Universities (MU). In addition, there are 45 institutions under 13
technical ministries, accounting for about 40,000 students.   The university
system had 177,560 students enrolled in 1988/89, of which undergraduate
enrollments amounted to 167,559 students. There are presently 48 MU institutions
located in 30 cities. These include 14 universities of which two science and
technology (S&T) universities (USTO/Oran and USTHB/Algiers); 13 univeraities;
25 undergraduate Institutes of Higher Education (INES); 9 secondary teacher
training schools (6 ENS and 3 ENSET); plus 8 specialized institutions.   The
university system has four levels of degree programs: (a) a 2-3 year program of
post-secondary study leading to a Technicien supérieur diploma; (b) a 4-5 year
post-secondary course program (depending on the discipline) leading to a
Graduation diploma; (c) a two year post-graduate program leading to a Magister
diploma; and (d) the doctoral program crowned by a Doctorat d'Etat. Although
official regulations stipulate that the magister (which requires a research
thesis) should be completed in 2-3 post-graduate years, it typically takes much
longer, especially in the areas of science and technology. It can take as long
as nine post-graduate years to obtain a doctorate in the science and technology
fields. 2/ This situation is directly related to lack of equipment and materials
in the laboratories, as well as to the limited numbers of faculty at the higher
career levels and the need for the doctoral students (who are junior faculty)
to divide their time between undergraduate teaching and largely self-paced,
unsupervised research (see para. 1.12(c)).
1.5       Access.    Although  possession  of  the  secondary  school  diploma
(baccalauréat) guarantees access to higher education, usually with a scholarship
(para. 1.20), it no longer ensures its holders their place of choice.   At
present, the success rate in the baccalauréat examination is only about 20%, one
of the lowest in the Francophone world, and only about 8% of the age cohort are
presently attending university.   Female students accounted for 35.7% of the
undergraduates in 1987/88, up from 25.3% in 1979/80.   Female enrollment is
particularly strong in the biological and earth sciences where they accounted
for about 70% and 50% of all students in those fields, respectively. In recent
years, the baccalauréat has been used increasingly for seiection and orientation
of students into universities and/or course programs deemed appropriate according
to the grade received ar8d subject taken. Since 1990, a computerized system based
V Amne 3 shows the structure of the higher education system under MU.



- 3 -
on baccalaureate results and students preferences is the basis for orienting
students toward a specific university or study stream. Access to post-graduate
studies is based on a national competitive exam, resulting in the admission of
about 10% of applicants. Post-graduate enrollments have increased by 68% over
the past five years.
1.6       Science and technology programa accounted for 26% of all post-
graduate students in 1987/883/ with another 36% in the medical sciences; of the
7,871f not in medical studios in 1987/88, 90% were at the magister level. Of the
771 post-graduate students enrolled in doctoral (excluding medicine) programs
in 1987/88, 63% were in the science and technology fields and 47% attended USTHB,
9% attended USTO and 1% were at UC, the three institutions targeted under the
project.  This indicates (i) a heavy concentration of (non-medical) doctoral
students in science and technology programs, and (ii) that the latter are mainly
at one university (74% of them are at USTHB, with another 15% at USTO).
1.7        overnance and management.  Until recently, the ministry in charge of
universities4' had responsibility for most major aspects of university
management, except for the actual delivery of day-to-day teaching and research.
However, as has occurred throughout the public sector since the 1988 reforms
designed to increase efficiency, decentralization measures have been introduced
to allow universities greater flexitility in their management. Further changes
are uxpected in the near future, including zhe creation of an autonomous body
responsible for the allocation of Government investment resources to higher
education, for which the proposed project arrangements are a precursor. Greater
control is being given to the establishments on budget category allocations,
procurement, staff recruitment and. to some extent, on admission norms and
curricula.  Within the universities, overall management and planning are the
major functions of the rectorate and vice-rectorates. The S&T universities are
subdivided into institutes corresponding to major disciplinary areas; a &iven
institute can have several departments for specialty areas.   Rectors are
appointed by the President and vice-rectors are appointed by the minister;
institute directors are elected by faculty members; and faculty tenure is based
on civil service guidelines where seniority plays a predominant role. Management
of scholarships, restaurants, student housing, etc. is ensured by the
administrative structure (the COSU) of each university.
1.8       Research organization and links with  industry.    Scientific  and
technologicdl research expenditure, basic and applied, is estimated at 0.2% of
GNP and publicly supported research occupies 0.7% of Government expenditures.
Research is conductea either at: (a) national centers administered by line
ministries, such as the Centre de recherche pour la valorization des
hydrocarbures et leurs dérivés (CERHYD) created in 1985 by the Ministry of
Energy, Chemical and Petrochemical Industries to improve current usage and
3I On the basis of preliminary statistics for 1988/89, the proportion has
increased to 30%.
41 Until 1988 the title of the ministry vas "Ministère de l'Enseignement
Supérieur"; for about a 18 months during 1988-1990 it vas the "Ministère
Délégué aux Universités; since July 1990 it is "Ministère aux Universités".



- 4 -
develop new uses for hydrocarbons and their derivatives; or (bl contracted to
universities and engineering schools througli the apex research coordination and
funding agency, the Haut Commissariat à la Recherche 'HCR). Established in 1986
to act as a foeus for the appraisal and promotion of research, this agency has
recently been redesignated as the Ministère Délégué à la Recherche. It has a
small permanent staZf that concentrates on overall research policy and makes
rocommendations  regarding  the  allocation  of  its  research  funds  against
submissions from the universities, and has overall charge of a few resear::h
centers.
1.9       Financing.   In 1989, investments in higher education amounted to DA
1.4 billion (US$180 million) or about 20X of total Government investment in
education. The four year on-going higher education investment program (1988-
91) of DA ^ billion (US$ 750 million) is mainly aimed at meeting demand resulting
from incre,,-.ing demographic pressures (even with increasingly stringent entrance
requiremei.cs (see para. 1.5) 54,000 more undergraduate places are needed). MU's
annual recurrent budget represents 6.1% of the national budget (corresponding
to 1.2X of GNP), as compared to 27% for the Ministry of National Educatio i which
covers primary and secondary education5/.  Salaries account for about 55X of
MU's budget and student stipends (including the costs of housing, meals and
transport) for about 36%. Univeisities are entirely financed by the government.
Resources they may generate through quasi-contractual relations with industry
and other organizations are incorporated into the university budget, but do not
automatically become budgetary additionalities (they go directly to the Treasury
and may be applied to the subsequent year's budget).   However,  increasing
flexibility is being given to universities in administering their non-salary
recurrent budget and hiring decisions (though salary and other service conditions
are set through civil service regulation). Student unit costs (see Table 1 in
Annex l) are relatively uniform across groups of universities with widely
differing mandates; in the science and technology universities they are a little
lower than the average for all universities, the reverse of the usual situation.
This is related to economies of scale inherent in the concentration of S&T
students in a small number of establishments (essentially, three), whereas
students in other fields are dispersed in a large number of smaller campuses
(para. 1.4).
Issues in Higher Education
1.10      Unsustainable  oerowth and declining qualitv.          The  fundamental
strategic issue facing Algerian higher education is the trade-off between
quantity and quality. The explosive growth of the past quarter-century has been
driven by a desire to attain numerical self-sufficiency in technical and
managerial areas as rapidly as possible, within a centrally planned labor market
which placed a high premium on formal educational attainment. Fully subsidized
degree programs with a high and guaranteed payoff on completion ensured massive
pressure for available places, outstripping even the remarkable growth discussed
v     A separate Ministry vas made responsible for vocational training in
1989.



- 5 -
above: four applicants out of five are rejected (by failing the baccalauréat
exam), and this is among the fortunate 20X or so of the age group who manage to
attend the last year of secondary school.   In the 70's and 80'8, quality,
innovation, flexibility and responsiveness to national and international
technological developments and market signals carried much lesa weight than
arguments for growth. (The analysis in the following paragraphe sumarizes the
findings of a joint Bank-GOA review of higher education challenges and
constraints, conducted in 1988).
1.11      The constraints associated with the budgetary bite of the mid-80's
highlighted the underlying rigidities in the system. The general problems that
appeared vere:
(a) External inefficiencies, related to a lack of responsiveness by the
universities to their environment.        This ia reflected in open
unemployment among recent graduates in arts and humanities, law and
political science, while there are increasing unmet needs for skilli
in economics, management, and various applied technical and scientif'c
fields;
<b) Internal inefficiencies, related to the poor quality of instruction
and research, and characterized by: (i) the high proportion of first-
year undergraduates (40%), compared with graduating students (10%);
(ii)  the high  rates  of repetition  in the  first  two years  of
undergraduate study, estimated at 50% for each year; and (iii) the
excessive time taken to obtain doctorates (para. 1.4). This situation
is the product of the poor quality in instruction and research.  For
example, practical work is missing from many courses (due to a lack
of supplies and equipment) which are taught by under-qualified
teachers (only l1l of the total teaching staff with the highest
university degree -- the doctorat d'état or equivalent)
<c) Considerable regional and inter-establishment imbalance in resource
allocation. Though the overall student/teacher ratio (13.4) is lover
than in the United States (15), and much lower than France (251, it
does not accurately reflect the wide variation between establishments
(e.g., seven independent establishments (the INES') have insufficient
critical size); also, see para. 1.12(c).
1.12      At the level of the major university campuses, such as the three
science and technology universities targeted under the proposed project, the
strains of growth show up specifically in the following ways:
(a) Physical facilities. Classroom buildings, laboratories and libraries
in many universities, especially the older ones, are used far beyond
capacity (e.g., USTHB and UC have 50% and 20% more students than
planned  capacity,  respectively).       Howe%er,   in  other,  newer
universities (e.g., USTO) enrollments have not reached capacity
levels, mainly because complementary equipment and operating budgets
have been rationed. Site maintenance remains a major problem: highly
sensitive laboratory equipment is frequently housed in non-insulated,



- 6 -
pomrly ventilated buildings inadequately protected from dust, f ire and
other hazards.
(b) Equipment and supplies.   Major  items of teaching and research
equipment and related supplies are lacking or ln urgent need of
repair.    This  contributes  to:  (i)  the  declining  quality  of
undergraduate and graduate education, as hands-on laboratory time is
increasingly rationed or non-existent; (ii) delays in trainIng-
related research at the graduate student level, thereby postponing
acquisition of higher qualifications; and (iii) the universities'
inability to develop properly their research and training links with
local industrv.
(c) Staff devolopment. Teacher qualifications are inordinatelv low (34%
do not have a magister degree and about 87% do not have doctorates'/)
Non-Algerians, who constitute 10% of the entire teaching force,
comprise 50% of the doctoral-level teachers. Also, few faculty have
received formal pedagogical or management training. The latttr vill
provide skills useful for increased institutional autonomy. Finally,
staff with newly earned doctorates from foreign universities find
themselves in an environment that is poorly equipped for productive
research.  This tends either Si) to diminish the returns on their
advanced training overseas -- most often financed by the Algerian
State -- in relatively well-equipped settings, or (ii) worse, to
discourage them from making their careers in Algeria.
(d) Critical mass concentrations of human and physical capital are
generally lacking.   This impedes the efficient implementation of
research and post-graduate training programs. The small numbers of
senior staff, as well as the lack of supporting technical personnel,
mean that research tends to depend on isolated efforts without
constructive critical peer group interactions. This usually favors
less relevant and rigorous research undertakings and an inefficient
use of scarce manpower.
(e) Support services are inadequate. This includes: computing facilities;
access   to  libraries,   documentation   and  database   services;
communication systems; arrangements for publications; and travel and
conference attendance.
(f) Equipment maintenance is clearly lacking.  This puts severe limits
on  the productivity  of recent  investments.    This  involves  the
availability of spare parts, arrangements for after-sales service on
proprietary technology, properly trained support staff, and a
structure of incentives and sanctions linked to effective mainte-.ance
practices.
> Only 10% of the teaching force has the doctorat d'état or recognized
equivalent. However, about 300 (or 3%) of teachers at lover ranks (maltre
assistant/chargé de cours) have Ph.D.s or other doctorates, but have not yet
received the doctorat d'état equivalency.



1.13      ResRonsiveness to demands from a changing environment.  In spite of
recent  administrative  measures  aimed  at  decentralization  (para.  1.7),
universities stil' lack the autonomy they need for quality improvement and
effective adaptation to a changing environment based on their own specific
strengths, plans, capacities, and the resources and needs of their catchment
area and other partners in development. The situation is characterized by: (a)
the centralization decision-making, the lack of contractualized expectations for
outputs, and life-long job security for all staff regardless of performance; (b)
underdeveloped management capacities associated with little local control over
administrative and financial functions; (c) limited incentives for faculty
members to enter into cooperative and/or contractual agreements with outside
firms or organizations; and (d) little local control over pedagogical functions
such as course offerings and student intake and evaluation.
1.14      Government has recently put forward -- for consultation within the
university community and the country at large --  proposals for a new legal
framework of university autonomy designed to address many of these issues. This
includes the necessary financial independence within a defined overall,
government supplied budget consistent with the establishments' mandates. Progress
towards greater institution-level discretion over conditions of staff service
and control of admissions is likely to be very gradual, since effective autonomy
in these areas implies modifying civil service standards and acquired rights,
and generalizing the now limited use of entrance criteria (para. 1.5) in a
context where the baccalauréat is still widely regarded as a constitutionally
guaranteed entitlement to free higher education.
1.15      The growing willingness of central government to delegate governance
to the universities is not by itself sufficient to bring about lasting change.
It will take years to reverse sustainably university work habits bred over a
quarter-century.   Overcoming this accumulated rigidities will be a delicate
undertaking that will require substantial incentives and time in order to
succeed. The proposed project (para. 2.2) provides a first incentive vehicle
for universities to learn by doing, benefiting to the extent of their growing
ability to plan and implement proposals for improvement.
1.16       Industry has very few effective links to university research, though
interest  in such  collaboration  is increasing rapidly.    Major  industrial
development has typically proceeded via turnkey operations, with specific on-
site training by overseas contractors and reliance on the leading equipment
supplior or national or foreign technical partner staff for the solution of
technical problems. For the universities, equ4pment and staffing deficiencies
prevented them from attracting research contracts and increasing their research
output. The few existing university/industry links have concentrated on providing
internships for senior-year undergraduates and arranging routine product testing
when appropriate equipment and expertise were available. In order to improve
their capacities to respond to the research needs of their economic environment,
the universities are moving towards designated research groups where academic
staff work in cognate areas.   At present, however,  deficiencies in basic
equipment essential for the conduct of research, as well as trained support staff
and other necessary support facilities, impede attainment of this goal.



- 8 -
1.17      Links with international research networks are in general weak, though
there are a number of international twinning arrangements with French and British
higher education and research centers.   These efforts,  which are mainly
concentrated towards the attainment of higher degrees by Algerian faculty, could
be usefully expanded as part of a career development program.
1.18      Financing mechanisms.  Total dependence on the government budget has
had the effect of cutting the universities off from their socio-economic
environment. This is exacerbated by the fact that any receipts a university
may obtain from this environment do not necessarily add to its (100% State
supplied) budget (para. 1.9).   This constitutes a powerZul disincentive for
university self-financing efforts. Although dominant State financing will be
a reality for years to come, at issue are: (a) the ability of each university,
as it sees fit, to charge for services (from firms, organizations and students)
and maintain entire control over the receipts; and (b) the manner by which the
State allocates its subsidies and university accountability is established. It
is becoming clear that some arms-length, contract-plan relationship, based on
quantifiable performai. ç objectives for university teaching and research, managed
for the State by an intarmediary institution acceptable to the universities,
should be developed.  Consultations to this effect have begun (para. 1.14).  The
project would test this approach on a pilot scale, through a mechanism of
university development contracts awarded on the basis of competitive investment
proposals submitted for independent, transparent review (para. 2.3).
1.19      At present, there is no systematic planning of expenditures, nor a
standardized budgetary framework, at establishment, MU, or Ministry of Economy
levels. Recurrent budgets are negotiated largely by linear extrapolation of past
practice, without taking into account sector-specific factors, such as the sharp
rise in enrollments in certain fields or the long-term effect of on-going or
future investments and creation of new teaching programs. The lack of access
to foreign exchange has also become, in its own right, one of the principal
obstacles to the provision of modern, higher quality education. Regardless of
the adequacy of the local currency budget, university budgets are often under-
expended because of the unavailability of foreign exchange needed for the
acquisition of equipment, documentation, replacement parts and supplies
obtainable only from foreign sources through complex procedures. Less than 15%
of non-salary costs (equivalent to less than 1.5% of overall institutional
budgets and about US$33 per student) is available for purchases abroad. Prices
for goods and services are often inflated by up to 40% over international prices
as suppliers try to protect themselves against long administrative procedures.
Foreign exchange starvation is a major impediment to the quality of Algerian
higher education and its ability to keep abreast of international scientific
developments.   Addressing the ratio.nal allocation of domestic and foreign
resources at the lowest feasible level of delegation is a prime objective of the
proposed project.
1.20      Students pay no tuition and benefit from highly subsidized room, board
and transport which are additional burdens on the budget. Though in theory
scholarships are granted to students according to their needs, in practice almost
all students benefit from scholarships.   In an effort to control costs, the
Government intends to reduce subsidies progressively for housing, meals and
transport, which students would pay at close to real cost. In addition, the



- 9 -
Government has recently introduced measures to cut scholarships for multiple
repeaters and to eliminate pre-salary payments for all new students.   These
measures will offset the recent 14% increase in scholarships which amount to DA
600 per month for students in science and technology, and DA 500/month for those
in social sciences and humanities, (compared to the DA 1,120/month minimum vage
for unskilled workers).
Goverument Strat_tv and Bank Lendins
1.21      Government  strategy.    In order  to  gather  greater momentum  in
agricultural and industrial development and improve competitiveness, the
Government is giving increasing importance to the development of national
capacities for (i) mastering the assimilation of imported technologies and (ii)
national technological innovation.   Towards these ends, policy measures are
being put into place to improve the quality of teaching and research in science
and technology.   High priority  is being given to encouraging individual
uni-ersity initiative and control over its governance, including pedagogical,
administrative and managerial functions (paras. 1.7, 1.13-1.15). Universities
are encouraged to develop their own financial resources through contractual
arrangements with local industry and cost recovery from students for selected
services (e.g., transportation, room and board, levies for use and misuse of
specific facilities). This policy is conceived to spur individual universities
to develop their strengths by linking (i) incentives f,r initiatives leading to
improvements in the quality of teaching and research with (ii) accountability
for performance and resource use. Through this process, the government intends
to disengage itself, gradually, from the direct management of higher education.
Government also intends to establish an autonomous university development agency
to be an intermediary between its;elf and the universities for the allocation of
government supplied investment funds (para. 1.7). It is not expected that this
policy will be uniformly adopted by all university establishments at the same
time.  Rather, its gradual application will, at a first stage, focus on the
project-supported pilot universities where the existing concentration of
resources, the need for excellence and the chances for successful application
are the greatest. Implicit in this strategy is the gradual devolution of control
over admissions to autonomous universities.
1.22      Bank lending strategy.  As part of its support to the economic reform
process, the Bank is assisting the Government in its efforts to improve the
efficiency and quality of its social sectors. A Health Management project is
being prepared and will contribute to developing major institutional changes in
the management and operations of the Health system. Dialogue is being pursued
in education, through both the on-going Vocational Training project (Loin
no.2977) and sector work. In particular, the reforms envisaged by the Government
to improve the quality and efficiency of its education system are being discussed
comprehensively both at the levcl of basic and secondary education, for which
a project is in early stages of preparation, and in higher education through the
proposed project. The Bank supports Government policy of improving the quality
of teaching and research in Algerian universities, in particular those in the
areas of science and technology crucial to future economic development.
Furthermore, the Bank supports the Government strategy of encouraging autonomous
university governance which it regards as essential in order to attain the



- 10 -
objective of quality improvement.   To yield sustainable results for higher
education, implementation will start vith pilot applications at selected
universities which will allow for a buildup of managerial capacity and political
credibility. This will allow new procedures and institutional mechanisms to be
designed and tested, and in many instances improvised at short notici, to provide
both incentives and a learning experience for demand-driven, decentralized
planning of university priorities and more flexible allocation of scarce new
teaching and material resources. This pilot approach will foeus (i) on making
centers of excellence out of three large science and technology universities,
(ii) on the practical steps towards contractualizing their relationship with
government, and (iii) on setting up a precursor for a viable intermediary for
university funding and performance monitoring.
1.23      ExDerience with oast lending.   Bank lending in Algeria consisted,
until 1983, of discrete investments aimed at assisting the government in the
development and reform of technical education and sector specific technical and
vocational training. The five Bank-financed education projects realized during
that period, namely Loan 913-AL (1973) of US$6.0 million, Loan 1209-AL (1976)
of US$47.0 million, Loan 1378-AL (1977) of US$48.5 million, Loan 1595-AL (1978)
of US$90 million, and Loan 1803-AL (1980) of US$87.0 million have been completed
and Completion Reports issued.   Administrative and technical difficulties,
including major changes in ministerial responsibilities, and lack of absorptive
capacity, commitment to project design and expertise in Bank procurement, led
to a very significant, but necessary, scaling-down of the sector portfolio in
1983-85. However, renewed dialogue through careful sector work led to the on-
going Vocational Training Project (Loan 2977-AL in 1989 of US$54.0 million) and
to the preparation of the proposed project.
1.24      The first education project helped develop the Agronomy Institute of
Mostaganem and the Algerian Institute of Petroleum. The second project focused
on the development of a technician training institute for electronics where an
existing institute was reequipped and a new curriculum implemented. Results were
found to be satisfactory and the original project design well justified. The
third project focused on the creation of seven technicums (secondary technical
schools). However, due to major construction problems, the Bank ultimately only
financed equipment for the government-financed technicums. The fourth education
project helped finance the construction of the Instructor Training Institute
(IFP) in Annaba, the extension of the Polytechnic Institute (ENSEP) in Oran and
the provision of equipment and fellowships for the National Institute of
Mechanical Engineering (INGM). The fifth education project aimed at the creation
of Maintenance Training Centers and Industrial Training Centers under the
Ministry of Light Industries. It was reappraised in 1982 when this Ministry
withdrew from the project and its scope was significantly reduced.   The
vocational training project aims at upgrading facilities and strengthening
training programs and management of 57 vocational training centers, 4 instructor-
Training Institutes and the Maintenance Training Institute.  The loan became
effective in September 1989 and its implementation is fully satisfactory.
1.26      Lessons learned and future lending.  Lessons learned from previous
lending have been incorporated into the proposed project. The Completion Reports
of earlier projects have emphasized the need for: (i) assigning the
administration of the loan and, when possible, the management of the project to



i il -
a single entity with the necessary leverage to resolve issues promptly and
sufficient resources to monitor implementation; (ii) providing adequate
preparation, including extensive advance training to local staff for
decentralization of project responsibilities; and (iii) ensuring efficient and
sufficient project implementation coordination. Overall implementation of the
proposed project will be the responsibility of WU's Directorate for
Infrastructure and Equipement, to wbieh a full time coordinating team is being
assigned (para. 2.8). Staff training and computer equipment to reinforce its
management capacity are included under this project, as well as the availability
of technical assistance in specific fields of expertise.   Universities have
played a central role in project preparation from its earliest stages and will
continue to contribute actively in all aspects of project implementation and as
peer reviewers in the selection of all investment proposals be financed under
the project. This is the first involvement of the Bank in higher education.
Successful implementation of this project could lead to broader-based lending.
Concurrently, on-going dialogue in basic and secondary education is contributing
to the formulation of measures aimed at improving the quality of education at
all levels, enhancing the quality of teaching of science and technology in
secondary education, and addressing issues related to student flows which will
impact positively on both secondary and higher education.
II. THE PROJECT
Background
2.1       The proposed project was prepared by the Government following a Bank
sector mission in February 1988 and a project identification mission in September
1988. After an interruption of six months following the social unrest of October
1988, the Bank reached broad agreement with the Government on the scope and
content of the proposed project during two preparation missions (March and
May/June 1989), followed by a pre-appraisal mission in November 1989. Appraisal
was  in February/March  1990.   The preparation process  also  included two
seminar/study tours on the management of government-funded autonomous
universities that were attended by rectors and vice-rectors of the participating
universities plus high level (directors and deputy directors) representatives
of MU and CNP involved in project development. The seminar/study tours took
place in the State University of New York (USA) system and in Great Britain and
included meetings with the central funding and management structures, and the
universities.
Prolect Objectives and Scooe
2.2       The project is designed to provide favorable conditions for a first
phase implementation of higher education reform intended to yield more autonomous
university management and development (paras. 1.14 & 1.21). It Yould focus on
the development of the institutional and material conditions needed to
demonstrate the viability of the proposed reforms. Successful implementation
vould lead to subsequent projects encompassing a broader range of higher



- 12 -
education institutions.   Towards these ends, the project would assist the
Goverunent in developing an institutional and operational framework designed to
provide the university system with the freedom and support necessary to improve
the quality, relevance and responsiveness of higher education to the country's
needs (paras. 1.10 - 1.13).   It would foeus on three major universities of
science and technology (USTHB, USTO, and UC; see para. 1.6), and finance --
through the creation of a performance-based mechanism for the allocation of
investment resources - - investment proposals aimed at supporting their respective
development plans (para. 2.4). All investment financing for each university over
the project period would be channeled through project supported mechanisms. It
is expected that these investments will put the universities in a position to
promote excellence in their fields and act as catalysts for reform while
providing a model for the whole higher education system.   The participating
universities were selected on the basis of the importance of their on-going S&T
programs, and of their role in promoting economic development in their respective
regions. Financing would be linked to each university's capacity to implement
quality improvement measures and to respond adequately to changing economic and
social environments. In practice, this refers to the universities' ability to:
control their student intake to the extent required by considerations of quality
in  teaching;  enter  into contractual arrangements with outside  firms  and
organizations and maintain full control over the receipts; and have accountable
managerial control over the procurement of goods and services. Measures in these
areas are needed to improve the chances for sustained quality improvement (para.
1.21). Interventions would be aimed at improving: (i) university management and
administration; (ii) quality and efficiency in teaching and research programs;
and (iii) the contribution of the universities to local development through the
forging of closer links with local industry and strengthening applied research
capacities. The project would also (iv) help introduce a system of assessment
and peer review of university performance at the central level which would
strengthen the management of the sector (para 2.8). Unavailability of foreign
exchange has seriously hampered the development of S&T programs (para. 1.19).
Bank financing of the foreign exchange component of the project will therefore
enable the three universities to implement their investment plans. Without this,
these plans could not be realized.
Project Description
2.3       The project would be managed by the section responsible for investment
management within the Directorate for Infrastructure and Equipement (DIE) of MU
(para. 2.8). This arrangement is designed to pave the way for the introduction
of a higher education investment funding agency, mandated for the allocation of
Government resources, that would be an intermediary agency between Government
and the universities (paras 1.14 & 1.21).   Project financed investments would
improve the quality of university teaching and research and strengthen their
capacity for autonomous governance (para. 1.14). Based on the principles of peer
review, the mechanisms for appraisal and selection of these investments have been
designed to promote a systematic, transparent, accountable and cost-efficient
approach to the investment planning process at both university and central levels
(para. 2.9). Peer reviews of plans and investment proposals would benefit from
international scientific advice.   Eligibility criteria for project financing
(para. 2.9) would include relevance to national and regional needs (especially



- 13 -
as determined through links with industry), availability of internationally
respected supervisory skills and know-how for implementation, limited net
recurrent cost impact, and preference for proposals likely to mobilize
complementary resources (e.g. from fees or research contracts).   Performance
indicators for implementation and outcomes would be introduced.   Eligible
proposals would support local and foreign costs, including incremental operating
costs, for: facility repair/upgrading; equipment and re-equipment; acquisition
and production of educational materiels; overseas and in-country graduate and
staff development programs; development of data-bases and information systems;
technical assistance; pre-investment studies; and collaborative projects with
local industry.
2.4       Research supported by the project would tend to be of an applied
nature.    In addition to the substantive benefits of addressing national
development needs, research would fulf ill several university-specific functions,
such as: (i) the training of graduate students (para. 1.12(c)); (ii) full
utilization of existing material and equipment; and (iii) motivation for highly
trained senior faculty, trained at well equipped overseas institutions, whose
professional development requires or.-going research experience -- vithout this,
the risk of very costly "brain-drain" will remain high.
2.5       University development plans.  Each of the participating universities
has drawn up medium-term (generally, 5 years) planning frameworks outlining ways
and means to improve the quality and efficiency of their teaching and research
programs, as well as that of university management. These planning frameworks
have been approved by NU and reflect the decentralization measures already in
practice (para. 1.7) as well as the greater financial independence for
universities currex:tly being put in place, including full university control over
self-generated revenues (para. 1.21). All three universities place priority on:
improving the quality of their teaching staff; improved maintenance capacities;
greater levels of autonomy to the institutes (departments); and strengthened
relations with local industry. More specifically,
(a) USTHB plans to: (i) stabilize enrollments at current levels and
harmonize first year enrollments with the absorptive capacities of
each institute; (ii) improve its documentation, libraLy and laboratory
facilities; and (iii) improve the teacher/student ratio from the
current 1:14 to 1:10 in 1994 and improve the teachers' scientific and
pedagogical qualifications.
(b) UC plans to: (i) shift enrollments from the social sciences and
humanities to S&T (from the current 60% to 70% of overall
enrollments), especially in mechanical and chemical engineering,
electronics and food sciences; (ii) increase the proportion of fully
qualified teachers from the current level of 2%; (iii) improve the
practical components of the curriculum; and (iv) strengthen post-
graduate capacities and research in the sciences.
(c) USTO (a new university that is not yet filled to capacity) plans to:
(i) strengthen faculty qualifications; (ii) equip its laboratories,
especially those used for practical work; and (iii) reach its full
enrollment capacity of 15,300 (from the current 7,000) by 1994.



- 14 -
The Government has approved the development planning frameworks submitted by
each of the three universities.   In addition, the Government has provided
assurances of its commitment to the carrying out of these frameworks, and that
any significant changes envisaged in them that are likely to affect the
objectives of the project would be communicated to the Bank for its review, with
comments taken into consideration prior to implementation of such revisions.
2.6       Investment proposals would be drawn up by university institutes and
central facilities (library, computing, maintenance or central administration
and management) and submitted to the DIE by the university.  Although aimed
directly at improving the core university functions of teaching and research,
the contribution of proposed investments to university-industry linkages would
be a criterion for appraisal (para. 2.10). The investment proposal submissions,
and thus the project, would address the areas indicated below:
(a) Staff development. The submissions would include proposals for: (i)
overseas and in-country training for academic, technical and
managerial staff; (ii) visits by experts from collaborating
universities who would contribute to post-graduate training and
research; (iii) short overseas visits for higher level staff to
formulate proposals based on best international practice, work on
specific research problems in collaborating laboratories, and attend
professional meetings; and (iv) short, in-house courses for staff in
improved teaching methcds.   Exchanges with collaborating overseas
universities would be established in the context of formal links
(twinning arrangements) with specified institutions;
(b) Improved Facilities for Teaching and Research.   Each institute will
provide information on the number of undergraduate and post-graduate
students. Information will be provided on the number of laboratories
to be built, refurbished and/or equipped, whether for post-graduate
training/research or undergraduate teaching, and the extent of use of
outside work with industry;
(c) Upgrading of Library and Computer Facilities. Provision of books and
other  library  equipment/facilities  would  be  specified,  with
information on how the proposal builds on existing strengths and f ills
identified gaps. Current use and the contribution of new provisions
will also be  specified,  as well as  implications  for physical
facilities;
(d) Improved  Site  and  Equipment  Maintenance  Capacities.    Detailed
information on the equipment facilities and training required will
be provided.   In addition, an integrated maintenance plan would
indicate  how  revised  organizational  structures  and  procedures
(management, incentive-, etc.) would contribute to sustainable
capacities and practices for effective maintenance;
(e) Improved Management Capacities.   In order to upgrade management
capabilities, especially in the context of greater university autonomy
implying higher levels of responsibility for university management



- 15 -
structures and personnel (replacement of a priori controls by a
Rosteriori controls -- audits and evaluations), the project would
finance training and equipment (micro-computers and software?.
Specific project inputs would be based on the recommendations of
management audit studies to be undertaken in each university.
Training programs in the areas of accounting, budget preparation and
management, financial planning, academic planning and procurement
would include overseas sojourns in aspects of university management
(study tours and intensive courses), as well as technical assistance
for in-house training.
Structure and Management
2.7       Organizational framework.   Appraisal and selection of university
investment proposals will be the responsibility of the investment management
section of the DIE (para. 2.3), whose main function will be the allocation of
resources to the three universities on the basis of (i) the national priorities
defined in the country Five-Year Development Plan, (ii) the conformity of the
universities' development plans to national objectives, (iii) the contribution
of the investment to the University Development Plan (para. 2.5), and (iv) the
technical viability of the proposals and their 'easibility. DIE would enter into
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the Universities and other relevant
third parties for the financing and carrying out of the investment proposals.
In order to insure transparency in the process of resource allocation,
independent peer review would be the guiding principle for appraisal of the
universities' proposals (Annex 4).  Linked with the operational indicators for
monitoring that are incorporated in the appraisal criteria (para. 2.10; Annex
4), this process is designed to favor the development of the tandem autonomy-
accountability, with the latter providing legitimacy for the former. DIE would
work cooperatively with the universities through feedback mechanisms that would
allow the former to provide technical advice to the latter. Specifically, DIE
would:
(a) provide universities with the necessary technical assistance to
prepare and periodically update their development plans, identify
their  needs  and  fo.mulate  their  financing  proposals.    It  is
anticipated that this would be needed only at the beginning of the
process, as the universities begin the weaning process toward greater
autonomy;
(b) based upon agreed criteria (para. 2.10; Annex 4) and performance
indicators, appraise university proposals with a view to (i) their
feasibility (pedagogy, management, maintenance, recurrent budget
implications, human resources, etc), and (ii) improvements resulting
from the investments. In order to carry out this function, and to
assist the universities in developing their proposals, DIE has
constituted a scientific advisory council, composed of Algerian and
foreign university professionals, that would provide technical
assistance and give a preliminary opinion on matters concerning the
scientific and pedagogical aspects of proposals.



- 16 -
(c) select investment proposals to be financed, on the basis of agreed
criteria and peer review which would be undertaken by a Review
Committee (RC), composed of members of the MU and univeruity
representatives. This RC would meet at agreed regular intervals and
be the point of final approval/refusal for university submissions.
Assurances have been provided concerning its composition, terms of
service and professional independence (para. 5.1). Given that this
in Algeria's first experience with independent peer review for
university financing, and that more permanent structures are not yet
in place, this arrangement would be a precursor of more developed
nationwide institutional arrangements for resource allocation (para
1.7);
(d) monitor financial and physical implementetion of the investments on
the basis of established performance indicators;
(e) evaluate ex-post the impact of the investments on university
development objectives.
2.8       DIE would be reinforced by professionals in areas of S&T teaching and
research.    The  agreed appraisal  arrangements  are designed  to strengthen
institutional capacities at the university and MU levels for autonomous
management and development in a period of extensive institutional change (para
1.21).  Furthermore, these arrangements would serve as a model for an autonomous
university development agency to be created for the allocation of Government
investment resources to higher education and the overall (a Dosteri2ri)
management associated with Government's higher education investment plans (para.
1.21). The creation of such an agency is being envisaged by the Government as
a consequence of decentralization to the universities of several managerial and
pedagogical functions (para. 1.7). During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that: (i) DIE's functions will be maintained for the duration of the
project and confirmed its structure and composition, as well as that of the
Scientific Advisory Council (SAC) and the RC; and (ii) the procedures outlined
above will be followed in the appraisal and monitoring of investment proposals
financed under the project. Detailed guidelines for the appraisal of investment
proposals, including appraisal criteria and DIE functions and structure, are
provided in Annex 4.  At Negotiations,  it was also agreed that DIE would
establish a detailed Operations Manual within six months of project effectiveness
that would based on initial implementation experience, and be used for training
and reference purposes.
2.9       The flow of tasks incumbent on the university and DIE for the
appraisal of investment proposals,  as well as the time it would take to
accomplish each step are shown in Annex 4. The approved arrangements take into
account the need to develop viable procedures and institutional cultures (at the
university and central levels) in a learning-by-doing situation in order to
increase the probability of success for a more general institutional overhaul
of higher education financing mechanisms. Distribution of the Guidelines (Annex
4) to the universities represents a first step in this process.
2.10      Criteria for anuraisal of future investment Rronosals are described
in Annex 4. Addressing the project' s objectives, and associated with operational



- 17 -
indicators, the criteria refer to the investment's proposed contribution to: (i)
improvements to the quality of teaching and research; (ii) improved financial
and administrative management; (iii) improved maintenance; and (iv) improved
links with the socio-economic environment. In addition, the absorptive capacity
of the proposed investment will be taken into account. Given the pilot nature
of the proposed institutional arrangements, detailed qualitative indicators have
been developed; quantitative indicators could prove overly constraining and lead
to unwanted blockages at this early stage. Operational experience would provide
quantitative dimensions for most of the indicators.
2.11      An initial pipeline of 28 investment proposals, for a total cost of
US$41 million has been appraised.  Annex 2, Table 1 describes some examples of
typical investment proposals already approved for each university.   Table 2
gives a complete list of all appraised investment proposals in the initial
pipeline which best met the agreed criteria and, particularly, the university
and institute's capability to successfulLy implement them.   Several pre-
investment studies have been included to address issues involving major changes
and/or strategic investment choices (e.g., central computing, maintenance,
management, etc.).
2.12      In addition, preparation work on a further set of discrete investment
proposals for an estimated amount of US$39 million is well underway in the
participating universities, including proposals targeted at: (i) improving
facilities and teaching and learning methods; (ii) promoting use of computers
and computing methods in all discipline areas, as well as in university
management; (iii) introducing regular review and revision of curricula; and (iv)
improving institutional management.   These  investment proposals   will be
appraised by DIE according to agreed procedures and criteria (Annex 4).   A
further set in an estimated amount of US$50 million is expected tc be identified
by the Universities and submitted to DIE within 12-18 months.
Environmental Impact
2.13      It is expected that the proposed project's environmental impact would
be long-term, positive, remedial and preventative.   By reinforcing research
capacities in fields such as industrial chemistry, hydraulic engineering, earth
sciences and natural sciences in a national context of increased awareness of
the dangers of recently measured levels of atmospheric, ground and water
pollution, the project could contribute to research efforts designed to study
selected aspects of these issues. The project was reviewed under the Bank's
Environmental Assessment procedures and determined to be in Category C, for
projects which do not result in a significant negative environmental impact.



- 18 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FIANNCING, IWNAGDKENT AND InPLEKUUTATIO
Coat of the Proleet
3.1           Summary  of  project  costs.    Project  costa  are  estimated  at  1,014.1
millioi.  'inars or US$130 million equivalont  including contingencies  for project
components  A8  defined  in  Table  3.1  below.    The  initial  investment  proposals
appraised by the Bank amount to USS 41 million or about 31X of total project
costs. These proposals, which are consistent with the universities' five-year
development plans (para. 2.5, 2.7), are representative of the overall pipeline,
thereby providing a basis for estimates of the composition and structure of
expenditure for future submissions. Coste for investment proposals aiming at
improving central facilities (maintenance and library/computer facilities) have
been estimated for each university on the basis of preliminary estimates of their
needs and by comparison vith similar proposals.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
-------- DA 000 ---------    ------ USS Million -------
Z Totol
X For§gn       laot
Loutl  Foreign    Total         Loual  Forelgn    Total        Exchoinç     Coatt
.. ..................... ....... . ........................... ..........  _ ................................    ..... ...... 
A. STAFF DEVELOPENT                    12.2      28.8      41.0           t.6      3-7       5.3                   4.6
8. TEACHING ANC RESEARCH             305.8      322.2     628.0          39.2     41.3      80.5        51.3      70.1
C. MAINTENANCE                         4.4       17.6      22.0           0.6      2.3       2.8        80.0       2.5
D. LIBRARY 4 COMPUTING                22.6      145.9     168.5           2.9      18.7     21.6        86.6      18.8
E. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS                 28.0        8.0      36.0           3.6       1.0      4.6        22.2       4.0
. .............................    ....... ................... ....................
Total SASELINE COSTS                 373.0      522.5     895.5          47.8     67.0    114.8         58.3     100.0
Physical Contingenciet              0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                48.8       69.9     118.7           6.3      9.0      15.2        58.9      13.3
,,, ..........,....................    ....... :............ ...... _._............ .......
Total PROJECTS C0STS                 421.8      592.4    1014.2          54.1     75.9    130.0         58.4     113.3
man ----qU *------- -- 333 3---- ------8-U .   ..uumuzuuuuuu .......us.
1/ Includes USS4.3 million of identifiable duties and taxes.
A summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in Table 3.2
below.



- 19 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Z Total
---------- DA 000 ----------   -------- US$ M.llion-----   X Foreign    Base
Local Foreign  Total      Local Foreign  Totat    Exchange   Coats
.............................. ........................... .....................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
............. ...........
A. CIVIL WORKS            227.6    75.9   303.5       29.2    9.7   38.9       25.0    33.9
a. TRAINING                7.2    28.8    36.0         0.9    3.7    4.6       80.0     4.0
C. eÇQUIPI4ENT            105.2   344.8   450.0       i3.5   44.2   57.7       76.6    50.3
D. STUDIES                 12.0     8.0    20.0        1.5    1.0    2.6       40.0     2.2
E. BOOKS                   0.0    65.0    65.0         0.0    8.3    8.3    100.0       7.3
...... .................................... . . .................. :........... ........................................ ....................
Total INVISTMENT COSTS   352.0   522.5   874.5        45.1   67.0  112.1       59.7    97.7
.. ...........................    . .. ...........................  .... ..............................
Il. RECJRRENT COSTS
...................
A. INCREMeNTAL COSTS       21.0     0.0    21.0        2.7    0.0    2.7        0.0     2.3
..............................  ..................................... ............................ ...................... .
Total SASELINE COSTS      33.0   522.S   8f5.5        47.8   67.0  114.8    58.3   100.0
Physicat Contingeiies   0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0
Price Contlngancies     48.8    69.9   113Z.7        6.3    9.0   15.2      58.9    13.3
.._ .......................... ...............................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS      421.8   592.4  1014.2       54.1   75.9  130.0       58.4   113.3
g---------uu ----SOUS-   uUuuuu-------uU-uUau -auzauxau8UUUUUU
3.2         Basis of cost estimates.  Equipment costs have been estimated on the
basis of existing lists and specifications and of recent comparable contracts.
Costs for new scientific equipoent have been calculated on the b Jsis of mission
estimates.   Technical assistance cost8 (US$ 3,500 per person-month of local
specialist services and US$ 12,000 per person-month for foreign experts) have
been estimated on the basis of actual costs practiced in Algeria and recent
prices for comparable technical assistance in the region, respectively. The
person-month costs of specialists include fees, subsistence, office services,
overheads and recruitment costs. Costa for future investment proposals have been
estimated on the basis of the appraised initial proposals which are
representative of the overall pipeline and on preliminary documentation submitted
by the three universities (para.2.11). Base cost estimates reflect prices as
projected for the time of negotiations (July 1990).
3.3         Customs duties and taxes.  Project costs include an estimated US$4.3
million in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works and goods. Equipment
and goods imported directly for use by NU are exempt from taxes and duties.
3.4         Contingency allowances.   No physical contingencies have been added
since amounts are estimates based on expected pipeline of investment proposals
over a four-year commitment time alice. Price contingencies between appraisal
(March 1990) and thr- end of project implementation are estimated at IUS$15.2
million equivalent, or 13X of base cost. Price increases have been appLied to
both  local  and  foreign  conts  at  the  annual  rate  of  4.9X.    These  price
contingencies have been calculated on the assumption that differences between
domestic and international rates vould be offset by exchange rate adjustments.
3.5         Foreign exchange comnonent.   The  foreign exchange  component  was
estimated as follows: (a) civil vorks and refurbishment of existing facilities



- 20 -
* 25X; (b) equipment - 80X; (c) studios - 40%; (e) training and fellowships -
80X.  Those percentages have been dotermined by:  (a) comparing with the
indirect foreign exchange of similar works in recent Bank projects; (b) assuming
that most equipment vould be imported; and (c) assuming that all transport and
local subsistence expenses for foroign specialists vould be paid in local
currency. Including contingencios, the resulting foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$ 76 million, or about 58X of total costa.
3.6       Incremental recurrent conta.  Additional operating coats under the
project vould result mainly from the maintenance of existing and nev equipment
and from incre-aes in salaries resulting from increased qualifications of the
teaching staff. Regarding maintenance, theso costs are expected to be partly
offset by savinge resulting from the nov maintenance systems to be implemented
vhich vill lengthen equipment life and reduce down-time significantly. Regarding
consuoable materials, the project vould finance an initial stock corresponding
to one academic year.  All investment proposals vill include estimates of
recurrent cost implications, along with estimation of the availability of
adequate recurrent budgetary resources (para. 2.9).
Prosoct F&M&ClI
3.7       The proposed Bank loan of US$65 million would finance 85X of the
foreign exchange component of the project or 50% of total project costs. The
Government vould finance the remainder of the foreign exchange compunent in the
amount of US$11 million through bilateral aid.  There are several on-going
tvinning agreements financed by e.g. the EC, Japan (JICA), British Council.
Local costs would b. borne by the Government. Project financing vould be in
accordance vith Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
------------- US Million -------------
Cat.aory of Exp.nditure  Gov.rment     11MD Total financing
Civil workm                 38.9                    38.9
EquipLnt                    13.5       44.2         57.7
Booka                                   8.3         8.3
Techbical au.it anco         1.5        2.6         4.1
TriAnin & Fellowships        1.7        3.7         5.4
Inogrntai roeurrent conte    2.0                    2.0
UnallocatLd                  7.4        6.2         13.6
Total                     65.0       65.0        130.0
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Prooject Management and Implementation
3.8       Coordination and management of the project will be the responsibility
of DIE, which vill also carry out the appraisal and selection of future
investment proposals according to defined procedures and agreed criteria (Annex
4). Proposals in an amount equal or superior to US$ 1.5 million, in addition
to the 31S of ostimated project commitments already appraised by the Bank, vill



- 21 -
be reviewed jointly by the RC and the Bank prior to approval. Proposals under
US$ 1.5 million and up to an aggregate amount of US$ 8 million per university,
would be approved directly by the RC and subject to a Rosteriori review by the
Bank.   These thresholds will be periodically reviewed,  and,  in light of
experience, modified accordingly. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
its agreement on the threshold for prior review of investment proposais by the
Bank as well as on the mechanisms for Bank/RC review of investment proposals
above this threshold (para. 5.1).
3.9       The universities will implement the investments given that they have
demonstrated capacity for handling complex equipment and construction projects
under government financing. Project-supported mechanisms for investment proposal
preparation, selection and monitoring of their implementation vill progressively
strengthen university management capacity (para. 2.6(e)> and reinforce the
Government's strategy of university autonomy (para. 1.21).
3.10      Procurement.  Whenever possible, invitations to bid on equipment will
be grouped into packages, the contents of which could typically be supplied by
one supplier (such as groups of computers, vehicles). Based upon the appraised
proposals, these packages would average $100,000. However, Limited International
Bidding (LIB), which is essentially international competitive bidding (ICB) by
direct invitation without open advertisement, will be used for other specialized
equipment for which there is a limited number of manufacturers; this method would
be preferred for contracts 3stimated at a maximum of US$1,000,000 and up to a
total aggregate amount of US$10 million. These items, suitable for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and for Limited International Bidding (LIB), would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's 'Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credit&" (May, 1985), and woulc. account respectively for about 43%
and 18% of the total value of equipment. Other items such as spare parts in the
maintenance investment proposals may well be procured through direct contracting.
Contracts would be awarded as per Table 3.4.
3.11      The exceptions to ICB and LIB procurement would be as follows:
(a)    Sundry items such as specialist chemicals arid glassware, not exceeding
US$150,000 in each contract and aggregating to a maximum of US$2.0
million equivalent could be purchased through international or local
shopping on the basis of a minimum of three quotations obtained from
foreign or local suppliers in accordance with procurement procedures
outlined in para 3.4 of the Bank's Guidelines.
(b)    Acquisition of technical books, copyright and a once-for-all payment
to cover the anticipated royalty payments, arising from the printing
of each book (estimated to cost about US$9.4 million in the
aggregate), would be done through negotiations with publishers.
(c)    Civil works, which will be procurement according to local competitive
procedures are not financed under the Bank loan.



- 22 -
Table 3.4: PROCURENENT ARRANGEMENTS
-------------------US$Million--------------
Procurement Method*
Project Element                ICB/LIB     Other           Total
Civil Works                   0.0          43.9         43.9
(0.0)         (0.0)        (0.0)
Equipment                    40.0          25.2          65.5
(38.0)        (12.2)       (50.2)
Books                                       9.4           9.4
(9.4)        (9.4)
Studies & expert services                   2.9           2.9
(1.2)        (1.2)
Fellowships                                 6.0           6.0
<4.2)        (4.2)
Incremental recurrent costs                 2.3           2.3
<0.0)        (0.0)
Total                        40.0          90.0         130.0
(38.0)        (27.0)       (65.0)
* Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
3.12        In the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15%, or the
existing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is lower,
over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports.  Regardiess of the procurement
method to be applied, all packages for goods over US$350,000 equivalent would
be reviewed by the Bank prior to final avard decisions. It is estimated that
this review would cover more than 80X of the value of all equipment and books
contracts.   The remaining 20X of equipment contracts would be subject to
selective post avard reviews.
3.13        Expert Services.  Consultants would be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executive Agencyn (August 1981).
3.14        Status of PreRaration.   The design of this project would permit
timely implementation because: (a) of the small average size and discrete nature
of each proposal; (b) equipment lists for the first proposals have already been
established; (c) draft terms-of-reference for studies and technical assistance
have already been agreed; and (d) capacity for timely implementation and



- 23 -
absorption capacity will be criteria for approval of iuture investment proposals.
Project completion would be December 31, 1995 and the Closing Date would be June
30, 1996.
3.15        Disbursements.  The proposed Bank loan of US$65 million would be
fully committed on a four-year time-line and disbursed over a maximum period of
5 years (see Annex 3). Thero are no directly comparable EMENA disbursement
profiles. Disbursements would be made against:
(a)      100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
books, copyright and royalty payments and educational materials;
and 80% of expenditures for locally manufactured equipuent and
educational materials; and
(b)      100% of foreign expenditures for consultant services and fellowahips.
3.16        Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent would be made against fully doecumented applications.
Disbursements against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), available for examination by Bank missions.
3.17        At Negotiations, the Government agreed to a condition of disbursement
that links disbursements for investment proposals equal or superior to the review
thresholds (see para. 3.8) to prior Bank approval of those proposals (para- 5.1).
In order to monitor this arrangement (i.e., to determine whether a given
withdrawal application applies to an investment proposal above the review
threshold (para. 3.8)), withdrawal applications would cross-reference the
investment proposal with which they are associated.
3.18        To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Special Account in US$ at the Central Bank of Algeria to which the World
Bank would make an initial deposit, equivalent to about US$5 million.  The
Special Account would be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance
of the account falls below an amount equal to 50% or less of the amount of the
Special Account.   Withdrawal applications would be supported by appropriate
documentation.
3.19        Supervision.  Monitoring and Evaluation.   The project would be
supervised and monitored by the Bank through the normal supervision mechanism,
and will require about 50 staff-weeks (of which a significant proportion would
involve detailed desk review of investment proposals above the review threshold)
over the f ive years of implementation.   DIE would be responsible for the
monitoring of the investment proposals implemented by the universities (see Annex
4). Monitoring indicators linked to the criteria for evaluation and approval
of proposals to be f inanced were agreed during negotiations (Annex 4). Progress
in the implementation of each investment proposal will be measured against the
baseline situation and objectives defined at appraisal and agreed by the RC for
each investment.  Each university's management team would be responsible for
implementation, including procurement, financial management, personnel matters
and reporting. DIE would maintain data on project implementation and status of
procurement of the proposals which will be periodically reviewed and discussed



- 24 -
with Bank supervision missions. Also, every four months, DIE would communicate
to the Bank a sumsary of unresolved issues and proposed remedial measures, and
an annual progress report would be prepared to review achievement of objectives
based on the agreed monitoring indicators. This report will analyze how each
discrete investment proposal meets its planned objectives and their impact on
the University Development plan as a who.a. A project completion report to be
submitted to the Bank vithin 3 months of the loan closing date.
3.20        Accounts and Audits.  Separate accounts for the prcject would be
maintained. Each semester a detailed statement reflecting project expenditures
during that period, and projected expenditures for the forthcoming semester,
would be prepared. Within 45 days after the end of each semester, copies of
these statements would be submitted to the Bank to facilitate supervision.
Project accounts including the Special Account (para. 3.18) would be audited in
accordance with the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank". Within six months of the end
of each fiscal year, the Bank would be provided with an audit report of such
scope and detail as it may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by
the auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of expenditures. The
Government would be requested to provide assurances to this effect during
negotiations (para. 5.1).
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1         Benefits. By providing a pilot model for university investment
financing, based on rigorous appraisal criteria and peer review and by improving
the quality of teaching and research in science and technology higher education
and increasing the universities' adaptability to changes in their social and
economic environments, the proposed project should contribute to Algeria's
international competitiveness through mastery of imported technologies and the
development of a capacity for local technological innovation. Together, these
project inputs will improve the chances of success for Governrent's policy of
qualitative improvement through greater university autonomy.
4.2         Rislçs.  The major risks lie in the government's ability to delegate
effective control over university management and the universities' capacity to
assume increased responsibilities. Project design recognizes that overcoming
the institutional rigidities accumulated over the past 25 years will be a
delicate undertaking that will require substantial incentives and time in order
to succeed.  The risks are reduced by the fact that the Government has already
started implementing measures aimed at decentralizing responsibilities for
university administration, in line with reforms elsewhere in the economy, and
that the project would include material and institutional support for the three
universities' planning and managerial capacity. In addition, the project would
include technical assistance and management information support for DIE staff,
as well as appraisal guidelines and the development of appropriate monitoring
tools.



- 25 -
V. AGREZETS RhACHED AT UEGOTIUTIONS
5.1   During Negotiations, the Government confirmed its commitment
(a)   to carry out the univeraities' development plans, and monitor their
implementation according to agreed indicators; in this connection,
the Government provided assurances that any significant changes
envisaged in the plans would be comaunicated to the Bank for reviev
(paras. 2.5, 2.7);
(b)   to use the agreed appraisal guidelines for the selection and
performance evaluation of all project-financed investments (Annex
4); in addition the Government shall prepare an Operations Manual,
based on initial implementation experience;
(c)   to submit to the Bank for prior review (i) all investnent proposals
above US$1.5 million and (ii) all proposals under this threshold,
once their aggregate amount has reached US$8 million per university
(para. 3.8); prior Bank approval would be a condition of disbursement
for these proposals (para. 3.17); and
<d)   to prepare annual audits of project accounts, including the Special
Account, (para. 3.19).
The Government alo confirmed that the SAC and the RC have been established
by ministerial decision (paras. 2.8 - 2.10).



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                               PAGE 1 OF 2
DEMOCATIC ANO POPULAR REPUILIC OF ALCERIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HISTORICAL EVOLUTION IN THE 1980'S
................ .................................
AVERAGE
ANNUAL
1981/1982     1986/1987      1987/1988         GROWTH
u*-uuuuuu      uuu.- u.  ... wuuuu.u...u.   u
Total Undergraduate Enrolîment                       72,590        143,293        161,464           14.3%
Fenale Undergradaate Enrollment                   21,956         50,685         57,690            17.5%
In Physical and Exact Sciences                     7,690          9,742          11,152           6.4%
In Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science)        12,101        49,023         58,948           30.2%
In Medicat and Veterinary Science                 21,953         33,999         32,995             7.0%
ln Siological and Life Sciences                    5,708         11,967         13,S46            15.5%
In Social Sciences  nd Humnities                  25,134         38,562         44,823            10.1%
First Year Undergradu te Enrotlments                                58,687
Females in First Yeur of Studies                                 20,401
In Physical and Exact Sciences                                    4,219          5,253           24.5%
ln Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science)                      22,431         29,406           31.1%
ln Medical and Veterinary Sciences                                8,489
In Biological and Life Sciences                                   4,657
In Social Sciences and Humnities                                 15,110
Total Postgraduate EnroLliment                       5,429          11,407         12,288           14.6%
Female Postgraduate Enrol ment
Rn Physical and Exact Sciences                       471            812            931            12.0%
In Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science)          350          1,150           1,343           25.1%
Rn Medical Sciences                                2,254          4,250          4,417            11.9%
In Biological and Life Sciences                      291            624            686            15.4%
In Social Sciences and Humanities                  2,063          4,571          4,911            15.6%
Undergraduate Degrees Awarded                         7,848         14,097         16,645           13.3%
In Physical and Exact Sciences                      1,058          1,126          1,280            3.2%
Rn Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science)         1,028         2,168          2,400            15.2%
In Medical Sciences                                1,654          3,294          4,702            19.0%
Rn Biological and Life Sciences                      549            897           1,701          20.7%
In Social Sciences and Hunanities                  3,217          5,928          5,387            9.0%
In Short Careers (N5)                                342            684           1,366           26.0%
Students Studying Abroad                              2,614         4,925          3,964             7.2%
Undergracdueate                                        77            325            241           20.9%
Postgraduate                                        2,537         4,600           3,743            6.7%
Total Teaching Staff (Algerian + Foreign)             7,796         12,204         12,970            8.9%
In Physical and Exact Sciences                      1,949         2,485          1,926            -0.2%
Rn Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science)         1,489         2,885          4,126            18.5%
Rn Medical Sciences                                1,146          2,461          2,570            14.4%
In Biological and Life Sciences                    1,037          1,253           1,191           2.3%
In Social Sciences and HuNanities                  2,175          3,120          3,157            6.4%
Total Algerian Teaching Staff                         5,036         10,393         11,418           14.6%
In Physical and Exact Sciences                      1,096         2,025           1,646            7.0%
In Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science)          663          2,253          3,373           31.1%
In Medical Sciences                                 1,047         2,410          2,536            15.9%
In Biological and Life Science                       593            990            972            8.6%
In Social Sciences aid Humanities                   1,637         2,715          2,891            9.9%
Total Foreign (Non-Algerian) Teaching Staff           2,760          1,811          1,552           -9.1X
In Physical and Exact Sciences                       853            460            280           -16.9%
In Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science)          J26            632            753            -1.5%
ln Medical Sciences                                   99             51             34           -16.3%
Rn Biological and Life Sciences                      444            263            219           -11.1%
In Social Sciences and Humanities                    538            405            266           -11.1%
Support for Students
Stipends (Boursiers)                               39,993         92,183        102,563           17.0%
Of which Foreign Students                         1,157          1,601          1,791            7.6%
Total Housed (COSU)                                33,386         65,740         77,603           15.1%
Fente« Housed                                      10,506         19,717         25,424           15.9%



- 27 -
TA ULE 1
STAFF APPOAISAL MFUT                                   PAU 2 OF 2
DENDCPATIC *50 POP"LM  FWELIC OF ALERIA
SCIEoe AMD TECMNCI.GY UNIVERSITY DMswm.PNEhT PROIECT
NISTEICEA EYCLUT10  lo TuE 19J00S
.................................
AVERSME
1901/1902      1906/1967         GR0JTH
Undergraduate Students Per Toucher                       9.3            11.7            6.0X
In Physical and Exact Sciences                         3.9            3.9            -0.2X
In Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science)            8.1           17.0            20.2X
In Medical and Veterinary Sciences                    19.2           13.8            -7.8J
In Biological  nd Lifs Sciences                        5.5            9.6            14.81
In Social Sciences and Huanitiu«                      11.6           12.4             1.7X
Proportion F_male Enrolteent                            30.21          35.42            4.01
Percentage First Year Enrollments                                      41.02
Female Undergraduste Enrol Itnt                                      40.32
In Physical and Exact Sciences                                       43.32
In Technology (Enginering + Appl. Science)                           45.8E
In Medical and Veterinary Sciencès                                   25.02
In Blologicat and Life Science                                       38.9X
In Social Sclences and Huanitis                                      39.2X
Degrees Awarded as Proportion Enrolbmants                               9.8X
In Physical and Exact Scel ncs                                       11.6X
In Technology (Engineering + Appt. Science                           5.8X
In Medical Sciences                                                   9.7X
In Biological and Life Science                                        7.5X
In Soclal Sciences and Huoénities                                    15.4X
audgeted Recurrent Costa -- Diners Current
Instructional Cost Per Student                                     13,337
Stipend Cost Per Student                                            3,665
Housing Cost Per Studmnt                                            3.064
TOTAL RECURRENT COST PER STUDENT                                   20.066
Stipend - Per Student Awarded Stipend                               6.151
Housing -- Per Student Actuatlly Nouaed                             7.210
SOUJRCE: MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR, ANUAIRE STATISTIOE, 1997-88 AND 1968-89
RECURRENT UDCET EW4WTIC IN THE 1980#S
..,._.............................
million current DA
CT1967
MES Recurrent Budget                                                  3,494
Central Administration                                                 58
Instructional Cost (Tranaf. to Establtmts.)                         2,063
Universities                                                        881
Medicat Schoots                                                     290
Teacher Training Estabtlhenta                                      251
Specialized Estobliluhents (GrEcoles)                                184
INES                                                                457
Research Centers                                                        10
Student Maintenance (Noueing - COOU)                                  567
Student Stipends (Bourses)                                             761
In Algeria                                                          474
For Study Abroad                                                    287
Miscellaneous                                                           35
............................... .......................................... .. _. 
SOURCE: MINISTERE DE L'ENSEICGENENT SUPERIEU. ANUAIRE STATISTIOUE, 1997-88 AND 19U-89
FILE: J:\ALG\PA063\LENU\ENG-AN1.5*R



STAFF AUFIS        I                                                                      ,_xt
hEOAtIC AND M M  wmUUC Oe ALCERIA                                                                     TA.L1 a
SCIEeCE A   TIC .    WIWUSII oS ttu EW IIMGECt
REaMut  Moet  (in nominel tlm>
sucu    lm  .au1                                                                 lUS _  190 u                           A19U-  maU
xf of  %of              X of  %of                 X  of  X of             X of             X otsf  X%otf Um A ;E
0.11.  total   066    DA.I.  total    CD0         1.1.   total    w        04.1.  totad    UP       0.N.   total    OP   198S-U
aS OISTIC puet                    277.,3                   297.700                   322.000                 34U8.                     359.000                      1.1A
IATINIU RECIMI  MM_                54,601   100.0  19.71   59.500   100.0X  20.01    63,000   100.01  19.6X   65,00   100.01X  11.OJ   71.900   100.01  20.0X     1.53X
.........................
OF mICUs
niNlSim  OF NIER MDUCAIs11        2.905     5.31   1.01    3.100     5.2X   1.01     3,494    S.5X   1.1X    3.432    5.22   1.01    4,380       6.12   1.2X     S.032
IuISil OUF ATICl ElUUATIO    10,668    19.5S   3.0X   12,782    21.5  .4.3X    15.600   24.82  4.01   17,111    26.1X   4.9S    19,436   27.01   5.41          6.781
bi#
niMISTUY Of VOCTIMI TAiUINIC
A   LAMS                           1.396    2.6X   0.5X    1,470     2.51   O.SX     1.562     2.5S   0.52        / e/ e                                              I
TOTAL LOCATIO  & A  OC.TAININC  14,971    27.4X   5.4«   17,352    29.21   5.8%   20.656   32.86   6.42   20,543   31.41   5.9X    23,816    33.12  6.6X        6.45S
a/ Includes 1,063 SA million for the lational Sécreteriet for Secondary end Technicat Education ihich w s part of the ginistry of
Eduwtion *d Sbeintific *esterch «which leter on becao einistry of higher Education).
bi Incltuda 1,347 DA *illion for Nationl Secreteriat for Secondsry mnd Technical Education.
c/ Vocational training exputwtures are addmd to Iinistry cf National Education expenditures.
di te1t rate, bamed on GDP deflator (1985 * 100).
*/ Starting In 1988, vocational training is *rged into the Ninistry of Education.
.................................................. ...............................................................................................  ........................................



- -- - - -  - - --T-         - - -    --R- - -         - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -
h~~~~ iim             !i.2Bi                                 
',  i  "   -  |  i  * m  |  i " i i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'     i          i           *.  "::    - - - - - -    - - -  -        -   - --i- -
, _ __ _ _ _-~~~~ , ~ ~ ~~ . i     ir| ,,  
*~~~~~~~~~~~n 2                  
"~~~~~~~                         'A        ,           
i R X  0 | la i ii 1 i    i 1R   O t    E        R s!    i  ff         i              Q 
i  3  .  t  g  t  l. ! i ;° _ ~~~~~~ * ' * ~~~ " ~~ { t _ i n * i i s ~~~~~ jl i ffi i i~r
8 ~~ ~~ _ ^ > n t ° , X gb g i j  * 2 t 1 § ~~~~~~~~~ §  § ~al4| i«            
ss  _ #e,  _  ,  n Q: _ .  a  *   < "   "      _ "        * _ igMn  -O
2 : .    2:a * ° 3
0, I;Î                                                                                     m cm      rio3i                  
«°~~~~~~~~~~O                                                        lx,        F"'oa:------_    __   
.   .   ,S  w  *  c_  ov @ E9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
i _   " "x  *RR 9 c    ~         S c X t    _   .g      i 2« 2   ,   §b l.|    i              i 
-   t -      -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                      IL - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -- - -
O   O t   .   _ tt P   *       o                     P6*  -



POPiDAR AND DENOIIW 1C IEPWLIC OF ALGERIA                                          AXIIEX 2
SCIECE AMI  TECNNOLOOT UNIVERSITY DEVEîOCNrIt PRECT                                          lAStE 1
PAGE 2 OF 3
EXAIPLES OF TYPICAt IMST#ENTS
....... ........... ................................ ............................................................ .... ..... ...... ........
I                                       Il~~~~~~~~~US!VEISIIT 0F SCIENCE AUD TECMMOLO     NOMRI SOUEDIENE CUSTU> - ALGIERS 
CG,ONENTS                         TURAL SCIENCES IIISTITUIE                |       INOU5itlAt CHENISTRY INSlITUTE         |   ENVIlfEMTAL NAAEflNENT iSIITUlE 
............................   ---  ------------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------------------------- -------------------------------
ISTAFF DEVELOPENT              [ 9 personomnth of ahort-ter                          î-  3 person-months visiting experts and   I 
j  training of acade.ic staff on use of               |   30 person-.onths for short-duration
I                                 ner*u equipmnt                                         training of acadaic staff on use of
|                              I  ard 1 person- nth of a visiting expert                 new eqipoent,   d on rnu teaching end    3 person-.onths for short-duration
|                              j- 5 person-onth for training of                      I   learning techniques.                           training  nd study tours for  cade.ic 
I                              j  laboratory techniciens to prepare                  1-  Recrutent of 1 Ib. engineer  nid               staff                                     |
j                               j .anipiaeticnsm  anoure routine                      |   2 technician.                                 1 person-nth Iob.technician trainingl
uintamnce and minor repair of new                  j                                              I 
î                               j.éq.ip.snt                                           I                                              I                                            I
jIIflOVw    FACILITIES          I                                                     [   INCREASED CAPACITT:  Reconversion of   IWU>ERoAWAIE PtOGRAH:   Provision of    |
|  FOR TE INIS ANSD RESEAtCI |- TROC COI                                                  en existing building to house             |mape  nd serial photograçhies to upt9rdel
I.. .uu----------------uu.aua  I  |Provision of  qpipaient  spore                    j   facilities for practicet uork <of whichipracticel uork 
parts  nd consmbtes to cover the                   j   onty 10X  as now providedi)                j                                            I 
prescribed practicat work for --                   |-  PEDAGOGY: Equipeent for practicel work |                                                |
I                              |  tronc C iun sttudents ad increase                   |   POST-GRADUATION I RESEARCNI: Provision  |                                               I                  O
I                              j    sbasic competemee In exprimentation                   of equipoent to increese resterch          j                                            I
I                              j skits.                                                  capacity end iinks with industry  nd    |
I                              |- ILESEARCN 1                                             devetop 2 nem   iaoretorie« (cryogenics |
|                              |  -  >Purchose of 2 electron microscopes             |   atm»pheric pollution)
|                              j  to incranse the efficiency of
I                               I existing research progr_as aid                                                                      
|                              I  menble d           velop-it of these projects       |                                              I                                            I
I                               I within the universit.                                                                              I
.....................................-------------------------------------.------------------  .. ... ....----------------------------------------------...... ......---------...-.-.-.---.---.-.---.-
|IPRIWEO SITE AND EWJIPIIEIT Ilhe university proposes to upgrade existing plant and building mIntenance facilities irrluding reorgtnixing the present staff, 
|   NAINTEANCE CAPACITIES   |upgradins soue posts amd equipping facilities se that routine mintentnce and repair con be carried out by staff on site.  This                       j
........................... Iproposat is presented in a number of stages, the first of uiich uoutd be DETAILED SPECIALIST STUiDY of future needs. the present                     j
I                              Iprovision and an action plan incorporatinh a tite scale to achieve the necessary improvent.  This wsoutd be folottwed by à
|                              Irestructuring of the existing staff group, the appointmient of netw staff  * associated training  id nmu conditions of services.
I                              IPendino the resaits of the above tentioned study, finrncing witt be limited to the provision of essentiat equipsent. to atready
I                               Iidentified training needs ad spare parts and consusables for existing equiptent.   Sub-projects for specific institutes approved   I
|                               Ibefore the recoauendations of the study are krtxn  ttill incorporate their needs for spare parts, mintenntce contracts and
I                               Itechnician training needs.
IUPCRADINC OF LIBIAY AND    |- LIBRARY  ALDIO-VISLtAL CENTER AND LANCGUAGE LAO: To ensure the rationat use of these centrel facilities, USTIH  hss opted to present I
|   CCtPPUTER FACILITIES       la sub-project wihich regroups the apecific needa of ait inatitutes.  Proposai incltudes provision of basic texibooks. journals and
--------....-.......---        Ipuibications, upgrading of existing systes  lor reprography. fiting ard accessing.  It is mIso proposed to Isprove the central
I                              l|udio-visust equipment Cover head projectors. video casette ptayers, cameras and wncittary equipment) to Increase their use for
j                              |teaching xind tearning.  This proposal also Inctudes a pilot language (ab. ard tapes.  Staff training ia *sto inctuded to ensure
lappropriate use ot latest equipment and methods, as wetl as routine aaintenance. minor repairs.
ISllENG#IENxlG Of              ISee University of Constantine, page 1
1 KANAGEMENT CAPACITYi



POPULAR AND DEHOCRAIIC REPuBLIC OF ALGERIA                                        ANNEX 2
SCIENCE & TECINOLOr' UNIVERSIIY DEVELOPHENT PROJECT                                      TABLE 1
PAGE 3 OF 3
EXAMPLES OF TYPICAL INVESTMENTS
IUNIVERSIIY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY - ORAN IUSTO)
CW<PONENTS          |        CIVIL ENGINEERING INSTITUTE          |                   ELECTROTECHNICS INSTITUTE                       A PPLIED GEOLOGY               I
-  -  -  -  -   - -  -  -   -   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ISTAFF DEVELOP ENT             [ 23 person-nonths for short-duration training  |   30 person-months of short-duration              1- Financing of à study to detait USTO's
o =f academic staff                                      training for academic staff                I proposai to establish a new appLied   I
|  |                                                 |                                              I gealogy faculty.  Study will review 
|                              |- 23 person-.nths for training of technicians  |   19 person-months of training of                 | existing courses and the nature end
I  i                                                     technicians               |                   type of eployuent obtaired after
...................... .        ---------------------------------------  successful compltetion of these 
lINPROVEO FACILITIES           |                                                     |-  Construction of a high tension            I progre.  The study will asoa
fOR TEACNING ANO RESEARCN | UPGRADING OF PRACTICAL tlORK: Provision of                  (voltage) facility                        |  investigste other overseas faculties  |
I s-"aæ--t--=-St--=t=-g- I equipent to increase practical work. whicm   |-  PEDAGOGY:                                                 e nd consutt internationsl experts        |
t                                 e at present le miniml, in 3 existing labs         |   Equipoent for 6 new laboratories          |  in order to take advantage of the         |
|                              | I<(construction materials, housing studies, soitl   to increase dolivery of pratical work             t latest equipnent. methods and teschinul
|                              | mechanics).                                         |   of Technician cursus and post-grakte    techniques.
I                              |- Provision of equipment to create a Structures I   research
|                              |  laboratory to enable the specialist roads ud |                                                   I                                            I
I  transport taba to function at professiohnl    |                                                  |                                           | 
|I|  levet.  Links with the Civil Eng. faculty in  I                                                                               |
|                              | Liege, Selgiuo have been used to determine    I                                                   |                                            |
I                              I needs and prepare specifications for equipuontl                                                   |                                            |
|IlPRWOED SITE AID EQUIPIENT IUSTO has requested financin9 of a study to assess its mintenance needs and elaborate its mintenance needs
MAINTEIWICE CAPACITIES   | nd elaborate proposats for a comprehensive mintenance policy in the Llniversity.  On the basis of the study recoma_edations,                     I
Iuzut.3.-:3z3~~              .====la sub-projet will be prepared. 
JUPCRADINI Of LISSRARY AND      - LIRRARY: USTOs s.ub-project cowprises four elements: lncreasing the book stock, lntstaling à computer based record system  to                 |
COMPUTER FACILITIES           facilitate book borrouino. additional computer power to enable coopletion of the national directory of Algerian thesis and|
lj.UUU*UUN SUUUZUSUUSUUSs      |training end developoent progras for library staff to ensure that the new facilities are usd effectively.
I ..    I                                                                                                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-......
ISTRENINEIINIC OF              iSee University of Constontine, page 1
jAIACMEIENT CAACIT          I
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,................................................ , .  X........................................................................................................................................... ..... ..... ..... .I
file: 1:%alg\udf-an2ser



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-    t- - ,                             r             B-  3    _                                                  - - - |       - - - - - - - - - - -
't   _____-                ------           -----           ------                                  _-_--._--_________________________* -- -
- - - -              -   -   - -  - - -
.____-------            --       --      ----                 - - -     -     -     ---i             -  - - --
*~~~~ _        ,,_NH_, .                                                       1    !_....: 
,  t    |     _          _    |      't'      '                                    '.5:                                                                                      0     '0 
,.            i                  *                      At                                                                    - it    j                              .4  g    g;.  
',             i                      a  5~                                                                                                 .                                 .*|'  ,,   "
l~~~~~~ t                                                                                                                                           t                .         £        . 
*                                                                             t 
.                                                                                                                                                                              - i      t .'-l 
*                                   l                    .                                    .l                                           ,                                 .9       R
-:- -  - - - - - -           --               *   -                          - -  - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
. -                                          0 *                w-0 " e. o " : ô J' ô : ~ w * ô - w _ " S : > g                                                  E
'. t                                                                                          t                                            t                                               a  '. wfi|fi.£Xi    o8&
*  _ _. ___                    _     _    _                _     _     _                           _    s  _     "_  A                     . '  _    _ _.e 
*~~~~~~~~ t                                                                       t n    *    *                                                                                        -         
*                                                                                             t    a --   *    £              s*. . ; ;.   , t                       
~~* 0    -   f''  -                             t                  V                                 _                            t                                              a 3  i
ICI.                                                                                                                                   .                                              .
*                      V                *                                           *                                                    -                                                 E       
~n *  an       vu                  i*2n Oa          *~            v                                                                                                                           s          if-*O  
~*  ;;,           *                                  n                                                                                                Nf                                      ..X s ._
*__                       ___ ___ _            _         _        _         _        _        .______ C
g.~~~~~d                                                                                          ICIm l
--        --       --      --         ---      --       --      --       --      --       --      --       -----



!~~~~~1 X                                ggo      . -. A", 
g   4ll.  ''                     *        O '.                         * a  g   ' 
.                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~*    _                          *  e
:        :                   :        8      .                     :   :g
i..  ,. .-                                                           *   *w
t   |   i    '.         ,ey-              i   [YsI              .~~~-~ g.    s 
~~~~~~~g~~~~~                        g. ::  :' gw                               g   g0:
X-~~~~~~f                                  s         0.-----O__ __ __O___g___ ,_
g !   g   S | | ,    " " @                 *__   ~ g    ~     N N.        _ "*  
E ~      ~~ .      -                   -F_  s        .0  .
* - --- --- --- -- --------------g,-
i~ ~ ~ ~~~~ |  , ,  t!   e,,              ,       2 " Nv            - - **O
8   ,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __g,_,
U ~    ~      ~     :*                          ~      -
y  ~     ~      ~     ~~ g                 g                 
g~ ~               S                                                  g      U a Z' 
*            ' 0                                                       g   g              



tu
ut
rd
-  n                                                                          c,
w 
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
x                                                                                                      S-           l U
<« ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~ s  .________ E _____   __  e___ _ _ _
| ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ . _                                                                                              N -A  I__ _ _ _  _     _l
I                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"IID
XQ~-                          -      --       -     -      -     -                                      --      -      --       -     -         ------
or                                                                                                                                  là O          0^N-         O
mi                                                                                             i            S           S                        N                        S
-        -     -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -  -      -     -     -      -     -     -         -     -  -  -  -      -  -     --- -
î  ~~~~  le                                                     on ~~~~~  Ie              Wbd                                   CD



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
Science and Technology University Development Proleet
ÇUIDELINES FOR APPRAISAL Apn MONITORING OF IUVESTHMNT PROPOSALS
1.          Peer review is the underlying principle of these guidelines.  The
advantages are: (i) the transparency of the appraisal procédures applied to
investment proposals; and (ii) the quality of the results. In order for the
peer review process to function, several conditions must be met:
(a) the participation of experienced scientists in the review process;
(b) proposals must take into account pre-defined appraisal criteria; and
(c) there is a general understanding that proposals not providing the
necessary information, sufficient guarantees for producing quality
results, and indications of the implementorls capacity for effective
execution, can be réjected.
In other words, the peer review process encourages competition between investment
proposals in order to promote the qualitative development of the universities.
2.          The central role of the investoent management section of the
Directorate for Infrastructure and Equipment (DIE) îs the allocation of
investment resources to the participating universities via mechanisms that: (i)
provide a maximum of transparency; (ii) encourage autonomous university
governance; and (iii) allow for ex post evaluation and accountability. This
implies that the principles of peer review would guide the appraisal process.
The purpose of this Annex is to sw-marize operational workings of the DIE.
Institutional responsibilities
3.          The appraisal process involves the participating universities and
the DIE.
(a) The universities would be charged with the detailed preparation of
the investment proposals that are derived from their medium-term
development plans. They would submit their proposals for approval
to DIE and, if needed, revise thon according to comments received
from  DIE.    Also,  the universities would be  responsible  for
implementation,  including  procurement,  financial  management,
personnel mattera, a;d reporting.
(b) DIE, which would channel all Covernment investment funding to the
three participating universities, would be charged with the appraisal
and subsequent monitoring of the univeraities' investment proposals.



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
In addition, particularly in the initial stages of this process, DIE
may provide technical advice to the universities on matters related
to the preparation of their proposal dossiers.   In order to
accomplish its role, DIE's structure would include an independent
Review Committee (RC) which would have ultimate responsibility for
approval of the proposals appraised by the DIE staff.
4.          Functions of DIE.
(a) Revision and/or extension of the criteria (para. 10) to be applied
to appraisal, with particular attention paid to operational
indicators that can be used for monitoring.
(b) Where needed, arrange for technical advice to the universities as
they develop their investment proposals.
<c) Appraisal of university investment proposals using agreed criteria
<para. 10). Attention would be paid to (i) the university's and/or
institute's capacity for effective and efficient implementation, and
<ii) how the proposed investment would contribute to the objectives
of the university's development plan.
<d) Final approval for all disbursement orders to external financing
agencies, within 24 hours after receipt of the request.
<e) Implementation monitoring, including the financial aspects, setting
up of mechanisms for accountability, and arranging for periodic
audits (with participation of the SAC). This would involve setting
up a management information system.
<f) Evaluation of the impact of the investment on university development.
5.          DIE's functions place it in the situation of being judge and juror
(Juge et partle). This situation is taken into account in the definition of DIE' s
structure and fur,ctions. Overall responsibility for DIE would be assumed by the
director assisted by his staff. DIE will have three structural elements: (i)
its managerial staff, headed by its director; (ii) a scientific advisory council
(SAC) headed by three Algerian academic scientist/engineers and composed of a
rooster of recognized scientific personnel from Algerian and foreign
universities; and (iii) an autonomous Review Committee (RC), responsible for the
final approval of the investment proposals coming from the universities and
forwarded to it by the staff of DIE, in collaboration with the SAC.
6.          DIE staff would include competencies mainly  in the areas of
management, financial analysis, and procurement. Although the participating
universities would prepare the investment proposals, DIE staff would check them
for completenesa and compliance with the agreed criteria (para. 10). Using the
services of the SAC (para. 7), the major function of the staff would be to
forward the proposals to the RC for final approval.   Also, staff would be
responsible for monitoring implementation.



- 37 -
ANNHX 4
Page 3 of 7
7.          The Scientific Advisory Council (SAC) would be available to DIE
staff and the universities when needed for specialized advice on aspects of
project preparation and appraisal (equipment, conts, technical feasibility,
curricular and research implications, etc). While remaining largely informal,
this council would be headed by a core of three Algerian acadelic
scientist/engineers and would maintain a rooster of Algerian and foreign academic
scientists and engineers who could be called upon to contribute to specific
issues that may arise in the preparation and appraisal of the investment
proposals.
8.          The Reviev Committee  (RC) represents ultimate authority in the
appraisal process. It would be composed of the Rectors of the participating
universities plus representatives of the scientific academic community, as well
as other individuals outside the sector considered useful and competent.
Information contained in the investment Rroposais
9.          Within the overall context of their approved development plans, each
investment proposal submitted by a university to DIE would addresa the tcriteria
for appraisal" outlined in para. 10, paying particular attention to providing
detailed  operational indicators.    Each  doss1er would  contain    detaile
information 9B the folloving:
(a) The objectives and expected outcomes of the proposal and 7.IOW it fits
into the university's development plan. Wherever possible, numbers
and dates (time lines) would be furnished. For example: the increase
in practical work courses by year x; the number of fully qualified
professors by year y; expected links with industry; how many new
books, journals, computers, etc. would be acquired; expected
efficiency gains from improved maintenance; etc.
(b) The baseline situation, including, for example, inventories of
existing equipment if equipment is to be procured, the staffing
situation if staff are to be trained and the statua of practical
work if the proposal aims at improving that situation, etc.
(c) Vhat is to be financed, including detailed lists of goods and
services to be procured.
(d) Procurement and implementation arrangements.
(e) For equipment, maintenance arrangements.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
Criteria for the anpraisal of investment RroRosals
10.         The criteria are outlined below.  The operational indicators would
becone the basis for approval and subsequent monitoring of investments
performance. These criteria are in addition to overall conformity to university
and national development plans.
Criteria:                      Operational Indicators
1. Contribution to    (a) For undergraduate courses: (i) expected increase
improvefents to    in practical  work;  (ii)  expected  improvements  in
the quality of      internal efficiency; and (iii) expected creation of
teaching &          new course programs, related to labor market demand.
research.
(b) For post-graduate programs: (i) expected reduction
in the length of time needed to complete degree
programs; (ii) expected increases in the number of
fully  qualified  professors;  and  (iii)  expected
increases in research output.
(c) Expected improvements in the capacities and
effectiveness of libraries and central computing
facilities.
gd) Expected links with the international and national
scientific communities.
2. Contribution to    (a) Financing:  (i) expected skill  improvements  in
improved            financial management (training and equipment); and (ii)
financial and       whether proposal improves university's capacity to
administrative      attract outside resources.
management.
(b) Management: (i) improved new management systems
(e.g.,  personnel,  facilities,   and  student  flow
management;   and  (ii)  expected  improvements   in
management skills (e.g., training for procurement,
personnel management, etc);
3. Proposed            (a) Based on a comprehensive diagnosis, the expected
contribution to    results and likelihood for sustainment.
iaproved
maintenance.        (b)  Details  concerning  spare  parts  and  their
utilization.
(c) Details concerning training and links with a reward
structure that gives priority to effective maintenance.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
4. Contribution to    (a) Expected links through agreements, contracte, and
improvad links      services in the areas  of applied research, training
vith the socio      and graduate placement.
economic
environuent.        (b) Proposed mechanisms for developing these links.
(c) Better understanding of labor market absorptive
capacities   (graduate  tracer  studies,  employment
observatories, etc).
5. Absorptive          Detailed information on: (i) availability of adequate
capacity of         space and services (vater, gas, electricity, etc.);
proposed            (ii) programed maintenance;  (iii) availability of
investment.         adequate personnel (professional and support);  (iv)
utilization plans and implementation achedules; and
(v) availability of adequate recurrent budgetary
resources.



- 40 -
Page 6 of 7
Procadures
11.         The diagran belov showv the flow of t  kR incumbent on the university
and DIE, as vell as the time it would take to accompliuh each step.
T-UC
URSm                                            arnm o
Hotth
2    Prfltiez et             sonat         CI Xt    Dit ne  0
.           Uacqsin these ueinstioi apniovel rieo     theno            dos
4         tati                             paet
g.n.rall.y addressda_ tei. needa oan  nstitut or  a c_teral CeOvIdIeU p Dlrtrssan
from tii.  oIH, stff  and ttii.SA.  o       Suapervitsio àol iovers mo trnrlae
to (t) cofie, (pcii) appopia. qupmnt  thaining, ofd etwbinnngaragmet
wi  foreg   unve           e
1~~ reprt
12.     Uning~ ths Gud      oinse, the uieitiesg *voul theorpaedsses
ganerally addressing te noeds of an Inatitut  or acenta   erieeibais
fro  t il DIV ae staffe anrh A.  o  xMe thebis otu*d cover matrdeae
to  pi contng, (ini)appoprat   up,t  traioning  andietore      ngaragmet
vhfo2g Unieringtiese Gudeines, iethouiverstionso woucilizted consutare foirs



- 41 -
ANNK 4
Page 7 of 7
project related activities (maintenance, analysis of management needs and
training, etc).
13.         The dossier would then be submitted to DIE who vould begin the
appraisal process.   This would involve both the managerial staff of DIE and
relevant members of the SAC, depending on the area of expertise. The opinion
of independent scientific advisors, working in the field of the proposal and
drawn from the rooster of the SAC, would be sought for each proposal. Their
opinion would be a central part of the appraisal process. At this point, DIE
has two options, either: (i) to forward the proposal to the RC with a favorable
recommendation, or (ii) to return it to the university with detailed comments
on further work needed. In case of the former, the RC could either approve the
proposal or send it back to the university indicating that approval is
conditional on addi ional information. In latter case, the university, working
with members of the SAC if need be, would rework its proposal before resubmitting
it to DIE. This process should be iterated only twice, according DIE's
recommendations.
14.         The final step in the appraisal process is the Review Committee.
DIE staff would forward an appraised proposal to the RC, based on the
recommendation of DIE staff.  The RC approval would allow for implementation
which would be carried out by the liniversities.
15.         DIE's involvement in imRIementation would be mainly in the areas of
supervision, monitoring, audits and evaluation. When needed, DIE (with help
from the SAC) could assist the universities on aspects of procurement and bidding
procedures. For each proposal that is financed, DIE will establish monitorable
indicators that would be agreed upon with the university.   DIE would be
responsible for collection of relevant monitoring information and reporting back
to the MU and external financing agencies. Also, disbursement requests to the
BAD would be co-signed by the university rector and DIE.
16.         Supervision. DIE would perform regular supervision (para. 3e) taking
into account all aspects of the implementation of the investments, in particular
the impact of the investment of expected results (pedagogical, scientific,
management). SAC would assist in supervisory activities.
17.         Procurement.  DIE and the universities would abide by the Algerian
Government's "Code des marchés publiques' and the World Bank's "Procurement
Guidelines".
Conclusion
18.         These guidelines are essential for the implementation of the initial
investment proposals to be considered in the context of the Project.  Based on
initial experience, they will be followed by an Operations Manual which, of
course, will evolve with time and experience.



