Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3266 AL
(Science and Technology University Development Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 27, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3266 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1991, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
      (b)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "Bank of Algeria" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banque d'Algerie), 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 
1990;
      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's fiscal years, which period coincides with the calendar year commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31;
      (e)   "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Universities (Ministcre aux 
Universites), established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 89-178, dated July 16, 
1989, as amended by the Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 90-224, dated July 25, 
1990;
      (f)   "DIE" means the Ministry's Directorate of Infrastructure and Equipment 
(Direction des Infrastructures et des Equipements) referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
      (g)   "Investment Proposal" means an investment proposal included under Part A 
of the Project, and to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (h)   "Operational Manual" means the operational manual (Manuel d'Operations) to 
be prepared by the Borrower for appraising, processing, financing and monitoring the 
carrying out of an Investment Proposal, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement;
      (i)   "UC" means the Borrower's University of Constantine (Universite de 
Constantine), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 
69-54, dated June 17, 1969;
      (j)   "USTHB" means the Borrower's University of Sciences and Technology of 
Algiers (Universite des Sciences et de la Technologie Houari Boumediene), established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 74-50, dated April 25, 1974;
      (k)   "USTO" means the Borrower's University of Science and Technology of Oran 
(Universite des Sciences et de la Technologie d'Oran), established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Ordinance No. 75-27, dated April 29, 1975;
      (l)   "Universities" means collectively UC, USTHB and USTO, and the term 
"University" means any one of said Universities; and
      (m)   "University Development Plans" means collectively each of the medium-term 
development plans for decentralizing and improving the management and administration 
of the operations, and for improving the quality and efficiency of the teaching and 
research programs, of each of UC, USTHB and USTO, respectively, as approved by the 
Ministry.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of sixty-five million dollars 
($65,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
Page  3
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of Algeria on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
            "(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
            "(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic, academic and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried 
out, the University Development Plans with due diligence and efficiency, and at all 
times take all necessary measures to achieve the objectives thereof.
      (b)   Not later than June 30 of each Fiscal Year, beginning with the Fiscal Year 
ending December 31, 1991, representatives of the Borrower and the Universities shall 
meet with representatives of the Bank with the purposes of reviewing the progress 
achieved by the Borrower and the Universities, during the period covered by the 
review, in carrying out the University Development Plans.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure, or cause to be ensured, that the 
Ministry's directorate responsible for the valorization of investments, the 
Directorate of Infrastructure and Equipment (the DIE), assisted by the Review 
Committee and Scientific Advisory Council established by the Borrower within the 
Ministry, shall at all times be responsible for supervising and coordinating the 
overall day-to-day administration and implementation of the Project.
      Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall cause the DIE to identify and appraise each Investment Proposal, based on a 
methodology and procedures acceptable to the Bank, which methodology and procedures 
shall include, inter alia, the following terms and conditions: the DIE shall determine 
the estimated value of each Investment Proposal, and shall obtain the prior written 
approval of the Bank for: (i) each Investment Proposal whose value is equal to or 
exceeds the equivalent of one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000); and 
(ii) each Investment Proposal for each University whose value is less than the 
equivalent of one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) and which has 
been approved by the DIE, when aggregated for the University in question does not 
exceed the equivalent of eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
      Section 3.05. The Borrower, through the DIE, shall prepare, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter furnish to the Bank an operational 
manual (the Operational Manual) setting forth the terms and conditions and related 
procedures for appraising, contracting, processing, financing and monitoring the 
carrying out of the Investment Proposals. The DIE shall review each Investment 
Proposal submitted to it by the Universities in accordance with the terms, conditions 
and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, which Manual may be modified, from 
time to time, on a basis and in a manner which shall be acceptable to both the Bank 
and the Borrower.
      Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project, or 
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
Page  5
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
           (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
      (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
           (ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely:
      (a)   That the Borrower, or any authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of UC, USTHB or USTO, or for the 
suspension of the operations of any one or all of them.
      (b)   Any of the decrees referred to in Sections 1.02 (i), (j) and (k) of this 
Agreement, establishing UC, USTHB and USTO, respectively, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
carrying out of the Project, or any part thereof.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  6
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy
            Immeuble Mauretania
            Place du Perou
            Algiers
            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINPLAN                 67073
                  Algiers
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                  By /s/ A. Bensid
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ K. Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods and services        52,500,000        100% of foreign
    (other than consul-                         expenditures and
    tants' services in                          80% of local
    respect of Invest-                          expenditures
Page  7
    ment Proposals)
(2) Consultants'               6,300,000        100% of foreign
    services,                                   expenditures
    fellowships
    and training
    under Part B
    of the Project
(3) Unallocated                6,200,000
         TOTAL                65,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower, or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of any Investment 
Proposal, unless the said Investment Proposal has been previously approved by the 
Bank, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 of this
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in reforming its higher 
education system and strengthening the management of its education sector in general, 
including: (i) ensuring more autonomous university management and development; (ii) 
developing an institutional and operational framework for improving the quality, 
relevance and responsiveness of university education and for the allocation of related 
resources; and (iii) introducing a system of assessment and peer review of university 
performance within the Borrower's territory.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.    Carrying out of selected Investment Proposals, under the University Development 
Plans, including, inter alia:
      (a)   university staff development programs, including seminars on improved 
teaching methods, overseas training for academic, technical and managerial personnel 
and university exchange programs;
      (b)   construction and rehabilitation of laboratory and related teaching and 
research facilities;
      (c)   upgrading of library and computer facilities;
      (d)   maintenance of laboratory facilities and related equipment and materials; 
and
      (e)   acquisition and utilization of university educational equipment and 
materials, including laboratory equipment and library books and equipment needed to 
carry out said Investment Proposals.
Part B:
      Carrying out of training programs, including training courses overseas, to 
strengthen the managerial capabilities of certain Ministry personnel and university 
management personnel in, inter alia, accounting, budget preparation and management, 
financial planning and academic planning.
Page  8
*   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning July 15, 1996
     through July 15, 2007                      2,710,000
On January 15, 2008                             2,670,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        
Premium
 
                                   The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum) applic-
                                    able to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       
0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                       
0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                         
0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  
0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  
1.00
Page  9
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more 
each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited international bidding:
      Specialized equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one million 
dollars ($1,000,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) may be procured through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least three (3) qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    International and local shopping:
      Sundry equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one hundred and 
fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000), may be procured through 
international or local shopping on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three (3) suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Direct contracting:
      Contracts for the procurement of books through direct contracting with 
publishers, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of nine million 
four hundred thousand dollars ($9,400,000), shall be awarded on the basis of 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of three hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($350,000) or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
Page  10
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to five 
million dollars ($5,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
      (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective Eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
Page  11
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
