25025
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/25/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MOLDOVA                                Project ID: P074122
Project: TB/AIDS PROJECT                        Task Team Leader: Joana Godinho
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 3, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 10, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSHD                            Sector: Health (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed project aims to improve Moldova's health status and assist the country to achieve
its health-related Millennium Development Goals (MDG) through reducing mortality, morbidity and
transmission of HIV/AIDS, other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and tuberculosis (TB).
Specifically, the project would support Moldova's National Programme for Prevention and Control of
HIV/AIDS/STls (NPAS) and National Programme for TB Control (NPTC) through:
(i)    scaling up HIV/AIDS/STIs prevention programs targeted at high-risk groups as well as the
general population;
(ii)  strengthening treatment, care and support for persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA);
(iii)  implementing DOTS strategy for TB control; and
(iv)   strengthening Moldova's institutional capacity to better respond to HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB in a
multi-sectoral approach.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The total project cost is estimated at US$ 15 million, of which the Government of Moldova would
finance US$ 0.5 million, IDA US$ 5 million, and donors, including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB
and Malaria (GFATM), $ 9.5 million. In June 2002, the GFATM awarded a grant of $1.7 million to
finance two years of activities to control HIV/AIDS/STls and TB. The proposed project would include
three components.
A.     HIV/AIIDS/STIs Component (US$ 6.9 million)
Al. Strategic Planning & Institutional Capacity Building for HIV/AIDS/STIs control



2
ISDS
Policy. The project would finance activities to enhance Moldova's capacity in HlV/AIDS/STls policy
making and planning.
Surveillance and programmatic M&kThe project would support the implementation of a
second-generation surveillance system that monitors both WIV infection and risk behaviors (especially
among high-risk groups) to inform the trend of the epidemic.
Training. The project would finance training for health care workers in Voluntary Testing and
Counseling (VCT), syndromic management of STIs, Mother-to-child-transmission (MCTC)
interventions, Highly Active Anti-retroviral Therapy (HAART)protocol, treatment and care, etc. It would
also support capacity building for NGOs and provide them with training in outreach, counseling, peer
education, and home-based care and support.
Strengthening Laboratory Capacity for HIV/AIDS/STD. The project would support the improvement
in Moldova's laboratory capacity through the provision of laboratory equipments, test kits and training.
A2. Scaling up prevention interventions for HIV/AIDS/STIs and STI management
Targeted interventions for high-risk group(IDU, CSW, men who have sex with men, prisoners,
youth, military and STIs clinic attendeesThe project would target groups at risk with prevention
interventions which include peer education, VCT, condoms and referrals to other HlV/AIDS/STIs
services.
MTCT interventions. The project would help disseminate the MTCT protocol, support universal VCT
at ante-natal clinics, provide WIV-positive pregnant women with short courses of ARV and infant feeding
options.
Preventive interventions for the general populationThe project would support IEC and awareness
campaigns (at the national and community levels), VCT services and condom social marketing.
A3. Treatment, care and support for PLWHA
Management of opportunistic infections (01) and palliative caihe project would finance the
dissemination of clinical protocols for 01 management (including TB) and care, training of health
workers in implementing such protocols. It would also ensure the availability of a package of basic drugs
for 01 management in clinics that deal with AIDS patients.
Provision of HAART. HAART would be provided free of charge for PLWYHA. The initiative would start
on a pilot basis and then be scaled up to cover PLWHA who meet the medical criteria for the therapy.
Home and community-based care and support for PLWHA. This would be conducted in partnership
with NGOs. Such organizations would be given grants and training to provide home and
community-based care for PLWHA.
B. Tuberculosis Component ($6.8 million)
B1. Strategic Planning & Institutional Capacity Building for TB control
Policy making. The project would finance activities to enhance Moldova's capacity in TB policy making
and planning.
IEC. Awareness campaigns to inform the public about TB and available TB services would be developed
and implemented based on the results of social assessments.
Training. The project would support training of health care workers in case definition, DOTS, MDRTB,
smear microscopy and other laboratory techniques.
Laboratory capacity. A network of sputum microcopy laboratories would be established down to the
health center levels. The National Reference Laboratory (NRL) would be upgraded and a Quality



3
ISDS
Assurance program for TB laboratory work throughout the country would be established.
Centralized TB drug supply system. The project would help Moldova develop a centralized system for
procurement and distribution of first and second-line TB drugs.
Surveillance and M&E system.A computerized, uniform information system which reports TB cases,
allows assessment of individual patient treatment results, monitors drug resistance, tracks overall
coverage and quality of the program would be implemented.
B2. Improving DOTS coverage, including in prisons
All judets and prisons would use the DOTS protocol for diagnosis and treatment of TB patients. DOTS
treatment would be provided free of charge. Special attention would be paid to DOTS implementation in
prisons - the hotbed of TB in Moldova. Implementation of DOTS plus (diagnosis and treatment of
multi-drug resistance TB) would be tested, and scaled up after obtaining good results in implementation
of DOTS and decreases in the costs of pharmaceuticals.
C. Project Management and Evaluation (US$ 0.38 million)
Project management. The project would finance additional staffing to complement the existing PCU of
the Moldova HIF project. Staff with expertise in HlV/AIDS/STIs, TB, procurement, financial
management would be recruited.Project monitoring and evaluation. This would include baseline and
follow-up studies, mid-term review and impact evaluation at project end. The project would finance the
required studies and necessary technical assistance.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: This project does not raise any significant environmental issues, as it does not involve civil
works or medical waste.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes 0 No    C] TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               C) Yes * No   0 TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   G Yes * No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                O Yes * No    O TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes * No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management



4
ISDS
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
NA.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
NA
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
NA
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
NA
Il.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
NA
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders, which include relevant ministries, NGOs, representatives of vulnerable groups
and donors will be consulted during the preparation of the project through consultation workshops. They
would also be partners in project implementation, for example:
Relevant line ministries would prepare annual work plans in HIV/AIDS/STIs, which can
be financed by the project;
NGOs would be contracted to provide prevention, care and support services;
Stakeholders would also take part in monitoring and evaluation activities, such as in the mid-term
review and end-of-project evaluation.
E. Safeguards Classif cation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.-         Expected       Actual



5
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Joana Godinho                                 August 21, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                               10/23/02
Sector Manager/Director:       Armin H. Fidler                              8/29/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
LEARCH     ,     L rEEO8ACK  -  , srrF MAP  -  SHOWCASE



