Report No. PID11460
Project Name             MOLDOVA-TB/AIDS PROJECT
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Health (100%)
Project ID               P074122
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA
Implementing Agency
Country Coordination Mechanism
Address: 1, Piata Marii Adunari
Nationale
Contact Person: Mr. Cristea, Vice
Prime Minister
Tel: 373 2 250 102
Fax: 373 2 242 696
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        September 5, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      December 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 10, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
After a decade of deteriorating economic performance, Moldova has shown
the first signs of recovery with rising GDP growth and leveling poverty.
Nevertheless, it remains the poorest, as well as one of the most heavily
indebted countries in the region. Although Moldova is recovering from the
health crisis brought forth by the profound socio-economic changes after
transition, most of its health indicators remain poor. Moldova's health
system has been going through a major restructuring to improve efficiency
and equity, albeit with limited funding. HIV/AIDS, sexually transmitted
infections (STIs) and tuberculosis (TB) are among the most urgent public
health problems in Moldova. From the programmatic perspective, the
national response to HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB in Moldova has not been
adequate, to a large extent due to socio-economic turmoil, insufficient
funding, deteriorating health care system and the collapse of social
safety nets brought on as the nation shifts to a market-driven economy.
The Government recognizes these problems and has committed to intensifying
the responses to HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB.
2. Objectives
The proposed project aims to improve Moldova's health status and assist
the country to achieve its health-related Millennium Development Goals
(MDG) through reducing mortality, morbidity and transmission of HIV/AIDS,
other sexually transmitted infections and tuberculosis. Specifically, the
project will support Moldova's National Programme for Prevention and
Control of HIV/AIDS/STIs (NPAS) and National Programme for TB Control
(NPTC) through: (i) scaling up HIV/AIDS/STIs prevention programs targeted
at high-risk groups as well as the general population;(ii) strengthening
treatment, care and support for persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA);
(iii) implementing DOTS strategy for TB control; and(iv) strengthening
Moldova's institutional capacity to better respond to HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB



in a multi-sectoral approach.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
n Cross-sector experience. The Bank has vast experience in working across
sectors, which is a comparative advantage in supporting a multi-sectoral
response to HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB in Moldova. n Cross-country experience:
The Bank has financed HIV/AIDS activities in more than 80 countries and TB
control initiatives in more than 30 countries. It is therefore in a good
position to help Moldova benefit from such international experiences.n
Stakeholder coordination. Through donor coordination, the Bank would help
strengthen and consolidate the investments in HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB made by
other donors (such as Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria, UNAIDS,
SIDA/Sweden, Soros Foundation, GDF, etc.) under a common framework led by
the Government. Internally, by its ability to work across sectors and
partners, the Bank would facilitate the coordination between different
ministries and NGOs, as well as various levels of the health sector.
4. Description
The total project cost is estimated at US$ 15 million, of which the
Government of Moldova would finance US$ 0.5 million, IDA US$ 5 million,
and donors, including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria
(GFATM), $ 9.5 million. In June 2002, the GFATM awarded a grant of $1.7
million to finance two years of activities to control HIV/AIDS/STIs and
TB. The proposed project would include three components.A. HIV/AIDS/STIs
Component (US$ 6.9 million)A1. Strategic Planning & Institutional Capacity
Building for HIV/AIDS/STIs controlPolicy. The project would finance
activities to enhance Moldova's capacity in HIV/AIDS/STIs policy making
and planning. Surveillance and programmatic M&E. The project would support
the implementation of a second-generation surveillance system that
monitors both HIV infection and risk behaviors (especially among high-risk
groups) to inform the trend of the epidemic. Training. The project would
finance training for health care workers in Voluntary Testing and
Counseling (VCT), syndromic management of STIs,
mother-to-child-transmission (MCTC) interventions, Highly Active
Anti-Retroviral Therapy (HAART) protocol, and treatment and care. It would
also support capacity building for NGOs and provide them with training in
outreach, counseling, peer education, and home-based care and
support.Strengthening Laboratory Capacity for HIV/AIDS/STD. The project
would support the improvement in Moldova's laboratory capacity through the
provision of laboratory equipment, test kits and training. A2. Scaling up
prevention interventions for HIV/AIDS/STIs and STI managementTargeted
interventions for high-risk groups (IDU, CSW, men who have sex with men,
prisoners, youth, military and STIs clinic attendees). The project would
target groups at risk with prevention interventions which include peer
education, VCT, condoms and referrals to other HIV/AIDS/STIs services.
MTCT interventions. The project would help disseminate the MTCT protocol,
support universal VCT at ante-natal clinics, provide HIV-positive pregnant
women with short courses of ARV and infant feeding options.Preventive
interventions for the general population. The project would support IEC
and awareness campaigns (at the national and community levels), VCT
services and condom social marketing. A3. Treatment, care and support for
PLWHA Management of opportunistic infections (OI) and palliative care. The
project would finance the dissemination of clinical protocols for OI
management (including TB) and care, training of health workers in
implementing such protocols. It would also ensure the availability of a
- 2 -



package of basic drugs for OI management in clinics that deal with AIDS
patients. Provision of HAART. HAART would be provided free of charge for
PLWHA. The initiative would start on a pilot basis and then be scaled up
to cover PLWHA who meet the medical criteria for the therapy. Home and
community-based care and support for PLWHA. This would be conducted in
partnership with NGOs. Such organizations would be given grants and
training to provide home and community-based care for PLWHA. B.
Tuberculosis Component ($6.8 million)B1. Strategic Planning &
Institutional Capacity Building for TB controlPolicy making. The project
would finance activities to enhance Moldova's capacity in TB policy making
and planning. IEC. Awareness campaigns to inform the public about TB and
available TB services would be developed and implemented based on the
results of social assessments. Training. The project would support
training of health care workers in case definition, DOTS, MDRTB, smear
microscopy and other laboratory techniques.Laboratory capacity. A network
of sputum microcopy laboratories would be established down to the health
center levels. The National Reference Laboratory (NRL) would be upgraded
and a Quality Assurance program for TB laboratory work throughout the
country would be established.Centralized TB drug supply system. The
project would help Moldova develop a centralized system for procurement
and distribution of first and second-line TB drugs. Surveillance and M&E
system. A computerized, uniform information system which reports TB cases,
allows assessment of individual patient treatment results, monitors drug
resistance, tracks overall coverage and quality of the program would be
implemented. B2. Improving DOTS coverage, including in prisonsAll judets
and prisons would use the DOTS protocol for diagnosis and treatment of TB
patients. DOTS treatment would be provided free of charge. Special
attention would be paid to DOTS implementation in prisons - the hotbed of
TB in Moldova. Implementation of DOTS plus (diagnosis and treatment of
multi-drug resistance TB) would be tested, and scaled up after obtaining
good results in implementation of DOTS and decreases in the costs of
pharmaceuticals.     C.   Project Management and Evaluation (US$ 0.38
million)Project management. The project would finance additional staffing
to complement the existing PCU of the Moldova HIF project. Staff with
expertise in HIV/AIDS/STIs, TB, procurement, financial management would
be recruited. Project monitoring and evaluation. This would include
baseline and follow-up studies, mid-term review and impact evaluation at
project end. The project would finance the required studies and necessary
technical assistance.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.50
IBRD
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS $5.00
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED) $9.50
Total Project Cost $15.00
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over a five year period between
2003-2008 by the Country Coordination Mechanism (CCM), which has overall
responsibility of coordination of project implementation. The Government
and other stakeholders agreed that the Project Coordination Unit that has
been implementing the Moldova Health Investment Fund, prepares and
-3 -



implements the proposed project, including managing any grant funds that
have been already awarded for control of TB and HIV/AIDS/STIs (GFATM,
SIDA/Sweden) or that the project would obtain in the future. The PCU would
be responsible for administration of the project, procurement, financial
management and for liaison with implementing agencies within and outside
the MOH, as well as coordinating M&E effort for the project.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the project will depend on: n A politically favorable
environment for control of HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB. n Implementation
sustainability. n Financial sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project takes into account lessons in HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB control
that have proven successful in other countries. These include the
following:n Early, aggressive prevention interventions targeting high-risk
groups, within a broader campaign for the general population, is the most
effective strategy to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS;n High commitment to
HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB control by different levels of the Government is a
requirement for success; n Selected relevant sectors (other than health)
need to be involved in the response to HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB;n Non-public
partners (NGOs), high-risk groups, patients and their families as well as
civic leaders all have important roles in the implementation of
HIV/AIDS/STIs and TB activities;f There are strong linkages between
HIV/AIDS, STIs and TB. STIs management is one of the important strategies
to prevent the spread of AIDS. TB control can help reduce mortality among
PLWHA. On the other hand, prevention of HIV/AIDS can contribute to
reducing the burden of disease caused by TB;n DOTS is an effective
strategy for TB control which has been implemented successfully in many
low and middle income countries; n A good procurement system to ensure a
reliable supply of quality drugs, equipment and other supplies is
essential to the success of a health project; andn Good surveillance,
monitoring and evaluation is critical to a disease control program.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        This project is not expected to raise any
significant environmental issues
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Joana Godinho
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1-202-4581988
Fax: 1-2026141666
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
-4-



Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
September 13, 2002.
- 5-



