LO*A- &q6'i5- 
FILE COPY                                RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-47a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
MEXICO
June 1, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Ps)
U.S. $1.00    - Ps 12.5
Ps 1            U.S. $0.08
Ps mnidllion    U.S. $80.000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
British/U.S. Equivalent
1 kilometer              - 0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter                  - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (kin2) - 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)           - 2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)     - 0.98 lg. ton
1 metric ton (m ton)     - 1.1 U.S. short ton
ABBREVIATIONS
DPP - Directorate of Planning and
Programming
SCT - Secretariat of Conunlications
and Transport
SOP - Secretariat of Public Works
Vpd - Vehicles per day



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..................................                  i
1.   INTRODUCTION        .      ................................., 1
2.  3BACKGROUND   .............................................                   3
A.   General           .............................................        3
B.   The Transport Sector ................................                  3
C.   Transport Coordination and Planning .................                  4
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ...........  6
A.    Highway Network ....................................                  6
B.   Highway Administration ..............................                  6
C.   Highway Financing and Planning .................                       7
D.   Highway Engineering ...........................,                       9
E.   Highway Construction ..........................., 10
F.   Highway Maintenance .................            ................     10
4.   THE PROJECTT..............................................                  12
A.   General Description .................            ................     12
B.   Highways to be Improved or Constructed ....... .......                12
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement ..........                 13
D.   Execution        ...................... .....................         15
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ......            ................................      17
A.   General ........          .....................................       17
B.   Calculation of Economic Benefits ........ ..            ..........    17
C.   Other Benefits from the Project .....................                 21
6.   RECOMMENDATIONS         ..................... .....................         22
This report was written by Messrs. R. Paraud (Engineer), A. Storrar (Agri-
culturist) and J. Yenny (Economist) on the basis of an appraisal mission
in November 1969, and was edited by Miss R. Mayes.






ANNEX
A.   The Project Roads
B.   Road User Savings and Other Economic Benefits
Table 1 - Economic Evaluation
Table 2 - Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
C.   Tuxtepec-Matias Romero (Donaji) Road - Impact on Agricultural Development
Table - Estimated Growth of Agriculture with and without the
proposed Road (Excluding Tuxtepec)
Map   - Tuxtepec-Matias Romero (Donaji) Road
TABLES
1. Railway Statistics
2. Length of Highways 1958 - 1968
3. Number of Motor Vehicles Registered 1958 - 1968
4. Highway Expenditures 1958 - 1968
5. Design Standards
6. Project Highways: Length, Type and Surface
7. Cost Estimate of Project Highways
8. Analysis of Construction Cost Estimate by Items
9. Schedule of Individual Contracts and Packages of Contracts
10. Project llighways: Traffic Forecasts
CHART
Organization of the Secretariat of Public Works
MAP
Main Highway Network






MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Owing to the mountainous topography and scattered population, the
economic development of Mexico relies heavily on transport in which the
highways play an important role. The federal network, which is well devel-
oped, connects the capital of the country, Mexico City, with all the state
capitals and main ports of entry, as well as the major centers of production
and consumption. The project proposed for Bank financing is for the contin-
uing improvement and extension of this network. The project roads have been
selected by the Government in agreement with the Bank as having high prior-
ity.
ii.       The proposed project comprises five existing roads, totalling
580 km, which will be improved in order to cope with the growing traffic
demands, and five new roads, totalling 462 km, which will open shorter
routes between regions of economic importance. The estimated cost of
the project is US$59.8 million equivalent, including contingencies and
interest and other charges during construction. The Bank loan of
US$21.8 million equivalent will finance the foreign exchange component
of the project; the Government budget will finance the balance of US$38.0
million equivalent.
iii.      The main benefits from the project will be road user savings
from improved riding surfaces and shorter routes, but increased agricultural
output is also expected from the area served by one project road. The rates
of return of individual roads range from 10% to 29%.
iv.       This will be the sixth Bank loan for highways in Mexico.  In
1960, 1963 and 1968 loans (268-ME, 354-ME, and 528-ME for the First, Second
and Third Road Projects respectively) totalling US$92.5 million equivalent
were made for federal roads and (in the case of the 1963 loan) for the
purchase of maintenance equipment. In 1962 and 1965 two loans (317-ME
and 401-ME for the First and Second Toll Facilities Projects) totalling
US$62.5 million equivalent were made for toll roads and bridges and for
the purchase of a ferry boat, all facilities operated by the official Gov-
ernment agency "Caminos" (Caminos y Puentes Federales de Ingresos y Ser-
vicios Conexos). In all cases the quality of the works executed has been
satisfactory, but delays and cost increases occurred on the first four loans
mainly because of insufficient engineering preparation. For Loan 528-ME,
however, engineering was much more advanced before the loan was made, and
progress to date is satisfactory.



- ii -
v.        Because of cost increases, and construction delays resulting in
toll revenues lower than expected, Caminos was unable without resort to
heavy borrowing to finance all local costs for projects 317-ME and 401-ME.
Caminos' financial position is therefore unsatisfactory, but the Govern-
ment has recently taken some measures to improve the situation the most
important of which was the rescheduling of C(aminos' debt to a Government
bank, for which a contract is being negotiated. The completion of this
rescheduling contract will be a condition for loan effectiveness.
vi.       Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the
Secretariat of Public Works (SOP). Construction will be by contracts
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, apart from some
bridging and minor or specialized works which will be awarded locally on
a competitive basis. Supervision of construction will be by SOP staff.
The project is expected to be completed by late 1974.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.8 million equiv-
alent, and a term of 25 years, including a grace period of 5 years, would
be appropriate.



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico has requested the Bank to help finance
a project consisting of (a) the improvement and paving of five roads total-
ling 580 km; and (b) the construction including paving of five roads total-
ling 462 km.
1.02      This will be the sixth Bank project concerning highways in
Mexico and the fourth for the improvement and extension of the federal
highway system. Details of the previous five projects are as follows:
For Federal Highways
Loan No.:                 268-ME              354-ME          528-ME
Date:                     October 1960       September 1963 January 1968
Amount US$ mill.:         25.0               40.0             27.5
Works:                    3,150 km of         6,000 km of    2,200 km of
Federal Highways  Highways and   Federal Highways
purchase of
maint. equip.
Present status:           Completed in       Progress is    Progress is 20%;
late 1968          95%; to be      works are expected
completed in   to be completed
late 1970       on schedule by
late 1971
For Toll Facilities
Loan No.:                 317-ME             401-ME
Date:                     June 1962          February 1965
Amount US$ mill.:         30.5                32.0
Works:                    384 km of Toll    350 km of Toll Roads and
Roads, Five Toll  Three Toll Bridges
Bridges and Pur-
chase of a Ferry
Boat
Present Status:           Completed in mid- Completed in early 1970
1967



1.03      Although the quality of the works executed is satisfactory,
cost increases and construction delays were encountered on 268-ME and
354-ME. Problems developed mainly because of insufficient engineering
preparation, which led to increased quantities and design changes. In
the earlier stages of these projects, delayed provision of local funds,
difficulties of acquiring right-of-way, and ieavy rains and damaging
cyclones also caused delays and cost increases. Under 528-ME, a special
office was created to improve the control of Bank highway works and
avoid some of these problems; this control will be extended to the pro-
posed project.
1.04      Cost increases and delays encountered on the two toll projects
(317-ME and 401-ME) resulted in a deterioration of the finances of Caminos
which is responsible for financing these project works (para. 3.11).
1.05      The appraisal of the present project is based on the technical
and economic studies prepared by the Secretariat of Public Works (SOP)
and on the findings of the appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. Paraud
(Engineer), Storrar (Agriculturist) and Yenny (Economist), which visited
Mexico in November 1969.



- 3 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Mexico covers an area of nearly two million km , more than three
times the size of France. Large areas are sparsely populated because of
the difficult topography and inadequate rainfall, and, although extensive
schemes for irrigation and agricultural development have increased the
area under cultivation, the population is urbanizing rapidly. Close to
60% of the population of 49 million is now urban; this proportion was 52%
in 1960 and 43% in 1950.
2.02      Although overall population growth has been 3.5% p.a. since 1960 -
one of the highest rates in the world - urban population growth was 5.1%
p.a. while rural growth was only 1.5% p.a. In 1968, 15% of Mexico's people
lived in the Federal District, centered on Mexico City.
2.03      Since 1960, the growth rate of Mexico's gross national product
has been about 6.4% p.a., one of the highest in Latin America. GNP per
capita was estimated to be US$600 for 1969.
B. The Transport Sector
2.04      Railways played an important role in Mexico's development.  Over
the past 20 years, however, as a result of improved highways and growing
demands for more flexible and varied services than the railways could offer,
there has been a rapid expansion in road transport. Despite very low fares,
passenger traffic of the railways has been drastically affected by highway
competition, and this has led the railways to concentrate on handling-
bulk and long distance freight traffic.
2.05      Railways - The length of the railway network - 23,680 km - has
not changed very much over the last ten years (Table 1). Total rail freight
traffic has increased at an average rate of 5% p.a. since 1960, and in 1968
the railways moved about 45 million revenue earning tons, over 20 billion
ton-km. Passenger traffic has increased little over the past ten years and
is now leveling off at about 39.0 million passengers and 4.3 billion pass-km.
Although the railway freight services are efficient, the case for continuing
many of the passenger services appears to be doubtful.
2.06      The financial situation of the railroads is continuously dete-
riorating. The net annual deficit is now about Ps 1.25 billion (US$100
million equivalent), and the total support from the Treasury in 1969 in-
cluding investment was approximately Ps 2.0 billion (US$160 million equiva-
lent). The deficit is due to excessively low rates and fares; operating
costs are relatively low.



- 4 -
2.07      Highways - In contrast with the railways, the length of the road
system more than doubled between 1958 and 1968, from about 32,000 km to
67,000 km (Table 2). This system is described more fully in Chapter 3. On
the basis of traffic surveys made in 1967 by SOP, total road freight traffic
was estimated at 22 billion ton-km, about 10% more than rail; passenger
traffic on roads was estimated at 65 billioi passenger-km, fifteen times
greater than rail. This growth of road traffic is also reflected by the
increase in vehicle registration. Over the last ten years, the number of
trucks grew at a rate of 5.5% p.a., while the number of automobiles in-
creased at nearly 10% p.a. and now approaches a million (Table 3).
2.08      Civil Aviation - Air traffic is also increasing rapidly.  There
are now nine airports capable of accommodating long range flights, 20 air-
ports suitable for medium range flights and 45 airports limited to short
range flights.  The total number of passengers carried increased from 1.7
million in 1960 to 3.2 million in 1967, an average rate of 9.5% p.a., with
the Mexico City airport continuing to handle about half of the total.
Freight traffic is still low, about 40,000 tons p.a., and has shown little
variation since 1960. In 1964, a program of construction, reconstruction
and maintenance of airports was initiated and spending had reached Ps 1.3
billion by 1968, reflecting the emphasis given by the Government to the
promotion of air transport, especially in connection with tourism.
2.09      Shipping - While there are about 20 ports along the 6,300 km of
coastline, Mexico is not traditionally a maritime nation. Ports have so
far received little attention from Government and there have been only
small programs of construction and improvement in recent years. However,
the Government now realizes the need to improve port services and is pre-
paring programs for port reorganization and new investments.
C. Transport Coordination and Planning
2.10      At the moment, no specific agency is charged with the task of
formulating a transport policy, and investment planning for the transport
sector is spread among a number of Secretariats and autonomous Government
agencies. No formal coordination of these Government agencies exists.
The situation has been discussed in detail in previous Bank reports, the
latest of which is the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Mexico",
dated December 1969.
2.11      These reports indicated the need for a comprehensive review of
Mexico's transport sector which would lead to recomoendations on trans-
port policies, planning and coordination. At the request of the Govern-
ment, a Bank mission visited Mexico in April 1970 to prepare a report on
the transport sector for submission to the Government by October 1970,
The mission's task is to review every major mode of transport, to recommend



a sound set of policies, and to formulate an investment strategy for the
sector which will be consistent with the major national economic objectives.
In regard to public transport sector investment, the mission will:
(a) examine the proposed investment programs of key transport
sub-sectors;
(b)  identify transport projects crucial to the broad national
objectives; and
(c)  determine the broad priorities, mix and amount of transport
investment over the next six to ten years.
2.12      The mission will also make recommendations on the establishment
of effective machinery for transport planning and coordination, and on the
role of the Bank in helping to bring about necessary changes.



-6-
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   Highway Network
3.01      Mexican highways have developed r-pidly in the past ten years
as shown by the following:
Length in km
1958               1968
Federal and toll highways
(primary)                        17,293              28,019
State roads (secondary)             12,032             31,030
Local roads (tertiary)               2,750              7,937
32,075             66,986
These figures represent an increase of about 110% in ten years (see Table
2). In addition, there has been a substantial improvement in quality,
the length of paved roads having increased from about 24,000 km in 1958
to 39,000 km in 1968. Mexico's seven mountain ranges, which form deep
valleys and high plateaus, induced development along the valleys and in-
fluenced the pattern of early highway development. Although some sections
of the country are well served by the present network, new highways will
have to be built to open up potentially rich areas, to provide shortcuts
and to establish cross-connections with existing routes. The continuous
growth of traffic also calls for the improvement of existing roads.
B. Highway Administration
3.02      Since the Federal Government pays either wholly or partly for
all highways in Mexico, SOP is concerned, directly or indirectly, in the
planning and constructing of all highways. The responsibilities for the
highway system are divided among various authorities as follows:
(i)  Federal Highways - SOP is directly responsible for the
planning, construction and maintenance of all federal
highways. These are financed 100% from federal funds.
(ii)  State Highways - Planning, construction and mainte-
nance of state highways are the responsibility of
State Highway Boards which include a SOP representative
who is assisted by an adequate staff for the supervision
of all highway works. The annual state highway programs
are submitted to SOP for review and approval because 50%
of the cost of all works, including maintenance, is
borne by the Federal Government.



- 7 -
(iii) Local Roads - Planning and construction of local roads
are the responsibility of SOP. On completion, such roads
are transferred to the corresponding State Highway Board
for maintenance with Board funds. Construction is fi-
nanced from 1/3 federal, 1/3 state and 1/3 local (private
contribution) funds.
(iv) Rural Roads - Recently SOP started constructing "Rural
Roads" to join small towns and villages with the nearest
main road. These are planned and constructed by SOP and
are financed entirely with federal funds. Maintenance
will be carried out by the towns assisted by SOP.
(v) Toll Facilities - While SOP plans and constructs toll roads
and bridges, they are operated and maintained by Caminos.
Funds for financing these facilities should be provided from
tolls levied on users.
3.03      While the above division of responsibility could lead to confusion
or duplication of functions, the system works adequately due to the over-
riding authority of SOP.
3.04      The organization and staffing of SOP are satisfactory.  It has
clearly established lines of authority (see Chart).
3.05      The Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT) is respon-
sible for control of traffic and road transport using the federal network.
The existing legislation for traffic control is satisfactory and the law
is enforced by SCT's Federal Highway Police. SCT's Traffic Engineering
and Vehicle Control Department is responsible for the regulation of axle
loading and vehicle size, for which the federal highway network has been
divided into 13 zones; permanent weighing stations exist in 4 zones and
portable scales are used elsewhere. There are indications that overloading
is not being controlled as vigorously as it should be, but, during loan
negotiations, the Government confirmed that the regulations will be applied.
C.   Highway Financing and Planning
3.06      A breakdown of expenditures on highways from all sources from
1958 to 1968 is given in Table 4. It shows that over this period the
rate of investment increased substantially, providing for greatly improved
quality of roads and an increase in length of about 35,000 km. Federal ex-
penditures in highways for the period 1970-1976 are forecast by SOP at about
Ps 23.2 billion (US$1.9 billion equivalent), an average of about US$260
million per year. This program represents a considerable increase over re-
cent levels of expenditure and appears very optimistic. The size of the
program underlines the need for effective highway planning.



3.07      The Directorate of Planning and Programming (DPP), within SOP,
is responsible for planning federal highway investments and for reviewing
state highway investment proposals. A satisfactory system for collecting
traffic data has been established. A comprehensive federal road inventory
has been completed and the inventory of the remaining roads is about 80%
complete. Traffic and inventory data are computer-processed.
3.08      DPP staff is competent, but its effectiveness is limited by the
general diffusion of planning responsibilities and functions in Mexico
(para. 2.10). The 1970-1976 Highway Investment Plan (prepared by DPP) is
only a general guide for SOP's annual expenditure programs and, as for
previous highway investment plans, is not officially a part of the Govern-
ment's overall investment plan. The Secretariat of the Presidency ultimately
determines the amounts and priorities of investments in the public sector
and this gives a degree of coordination of investment at the national level,
although there is no formal National Economic Plan on which to base invest-
ment decisions.
3.09      Until recently, good federal highway projects could easily be
chosen on the basis of three objectives:
(a) To connect the capital, Mexico City, with all state
capitals, and main points of entry (ports, border
crossings);
(b) To connect the major centers of production and con-
sumption; and
(c) To improve the existing network as traffic demand
justifies and to construct new highways to reduce
distances.
The first two objectives are nearly met, and future investment in the fed-
eral highway network should be aimed at satisfying the third one. However,
there is a need to re-examine priorities for future highway investment, in
accordance with such other objectives of national economic policy as:
(a) the integration of peasant communities with the rest of the economy,
which could be helped by the construction of minor access roads, and (b) a
more pervasive economic effort, to promote more equitable growth of the
different regions of the country; this latter objective could be assisted
by further development of the state highway networks. The effectiveness of
SOP in planning for these broad objectives is being examined by the transport
sector review mission.
3.10      Road user charges in Mexico are a combination of (i) charges
levied by the Federal Government on the manufacture of vehicles and tires
and on vehicle use; (ii) minor taxes and licenses levied by the state gov-
ernments; (iii) revenues from toll roads and bridges, and (iv) taxes
on fuels and lubricants collected by the national oil company (Petroleos



- 9 -
Mexicanos) through the difference between their sales prices and the costs
of production and distribution. None of these charges are earmarked for
roads; federal and state taxes go to the general budget while Petroleos
Mexicanos retains part of the taxes on fuel and lubricants for the financ-
ing of its investments with the remainder going to the general budget. Rev-
enues from all user charges are more than sufficient to cover the annual
construction and maintenance outlays on the road system. In 1968, for
instance, total revenues amounted to about Ps 3.15 billion as compared with
construction and maintenance expenditures of about Ps 1.80 billion. Al-
though this is not the result of a deliberate policy, the Government recovers
from the road users at large substantially more than the cost of the infra-
structure it provides. However, while users of gasoline carry the main
burden of taxation, diesel fuel is in fact, being subsidized. This imbalance
has implications for road-rail competition in Mexico and the transport sec-
tor review mission (para. 2.11) expects to make recommendations for correc-
tive action by the Government.
3.11      The position is easier to assess for toll traffic, as toll facil-
ities are financed and operated by Caminos, which is expected to be self-
supporting and to generate capital resources. It is not, however, operating
on a sound financial basis. Its financial situation has deteriorated in
recent years mainly because of delays and cost overruns in the construction
of toll facilities. The situation improved in 1969 when the Government re-
imbursed Caminos for constructing non-toll facilities and created a Trust
Fund to pay outstanding contracts for works under Loan 401-ME, and will
again when Caminos' debt to the Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
is rescheduled; the completion of this rescheduling contract is a condition
for loan effectiveness.
3.12      The present toll-rate structure does not ensure efficient use
of available road capacity. A study, with experiments on rate variations
by time of the day, day of week, type of vehicle, etc., will be conducted
by the Government in conjunction with Caminos to determine the elasticity
of demand on toll roads in Mexico. Such a study would provide a basis
for considering a new tariff structure for existing toll roads and for
the setting of rates for any possible addition to the system. During loan
negotiations, the Government agreed that it will carry out such a study
before the end of 1971 and discuss with the Bank the results thereof and
the need for introducing new rates to the Mexican toll road system.
D. Highway Engineering
3.13      Highways and bridges are well engineered by the Directorate of
Land Transport Projects in the SOP using up-to-date techniques. Before
Loan 528 the practice of starting projects on the basis of insufficient
engineering was a major cause of construction delays and cost increases
(see para. 1.03), but for the present project detailed engineering has
been practically completed and such problems are not expected.



- 10 -
3.14      SOP has satisfactory design standards for the federal highway
network (Table 5).
E. Highway Construction
3.15      Highway construction is carried olut under unit price contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding. Supervision of construction
is carried out satisfactorily by SOP staff.
3.16      The local construction industry is strong, well equipped and
well organized. The National Chamber of the Construction Industry has a
membership of about 3,100 contracting firms, 500 of whom specialize in
highway works. There is a wide range of work capacity in these special-
ized firms, which include about five firms able to execute highvay works
amounting to US$10 to 15 million annually, and 20-25 firms in the US$4
to 6 million range. Competition is intense and this may have discouraged
foreign firms from bidding for highway contracts in Mexico.
3.17      In 1967, the Government enacted a law establishing uniform pro-
cedures for the registration of contracting firms and for the supervision
of public works. A committee was created to study and make recommendations
on contract awards, unit prices, specifications and similar matters. In
addition, an office was established to register contracting firms. About
3000 firms have been registered and they are obliged to update registration
information annually. Foreign contractors need register only if awarded
a contract; the procedure takes between two and three months.
3.18      Foreign contractors may import their equipment in Mexico under
a temporary importation license with exemption from payment of duties sub-
ject to the establishment of a guarantee for the payment of such duties.
Upon completion of the works the equipment may be re-exported free of du-
ties, but if the equipment remains in Mexico, the contractor has to pay
duties corresponding to its undepreciated value.
F.  Highway Maintenance
3.19      SOP, through its Directorate for Maintenance of Federal Highways,
is responsible for the maintenance of the Federal highway system. Routine
maintenance is carried out by the Government's own forces and, in general,
is satisfactory. Only major betterment is carried out by contract. The
Directorate, which is well organized and staffed, operates through 16 main-
tenance divisions, each headed by a chief engineer.
3.20      The maintenance, operation and allocation of SOP equipment is in
the charge of the Directorate of Workshops, which operates in close coope-
ration with the Directorate for Maintenance of Federal Highways. The total
estimated depreciated value of the park of equipment is US$20 million, but
much of this equipment is old and needs replacing.



- 11 -
3.21      SOP has limited yearly budget allocations for the purchase of
maintenance equipment, but has also had foreign aid for this purpose. In
1963, for instance, the Bank (under 354-ME) financed maintenance equipment
worth about US$8 million, and in 1969 the Inter-American Development Bank
made a loan which included US$5 million for maintenance equipment. However,
to bring the pace of equipment replacement up to the required level SOP
intends to seek additional budgetary allocations.
3.22      The growth of the highway network brings the need for a coumensu-
rate growth in maintenance effort. Maintenance expenditures on federal
highways increased from Ps 154 million (US$12.3 million equivalent) in 1958
to Ps 460 million (US$36.8 million equivalent) in 1968. These amounts cov-
ered some betterment work and the purchase of equipment, but enabled a sa-
tisfactory level of maintenance to be achieved. The Government confirmed
during loan negotiations that it will continue adequately to maintain the
federal highway system.



- 12 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(i) The improvement (including paving) of the following five
roads, totalling about 580 km:
(1) Chilpancingo-Tlapa (Chilpancingo-Chilapa Section)
(2) Puerto Vallarta-Barra de Navidad
(3) Apatzingan-Tepalcatepec
(4)  Zapotlanejo-Lagos
(5) Santa Rosa-La Barca
(ii) The construction (including paving) of the following five
roads, totalling about 462 km:
(6) Compostela-Chapalilla
(7) Tuxtepec-Matias Romero (Donaji)
(8) Ciudad Victoria-Tampico (Llera-Estacion Gonzalez Section)
(9) Ciudad Aleman-Sayula
(10) Cardel-Veracruz
4.02      The project roads (see Map) have been selected by the Government
in agreement with the Bank as having high priority within the federal high-
way system. Some of the roads (Nos. 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10) are closely related
to works financed under previous Bank loans. The project will constitute
about 12% of SOP's federal highway construction program for the 1970-1974
period. The Bank loan itself will provide about 4.3% of this road construc-
tion investment for the same period.
B. HiRhways to be Improved or Constructed
4.03      The design standards for project roads are shown in Table 5.  They
are similar to those used for previous highway projects and are satisfactory.
The project roads are described in Chapter 5 - Economic Evaluation -, in
Table 6 and in Annex A.



- 13 -
C. Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$59.8 million
equivalent, including contingency allowances and interest during construction.
Table 7 shows the cost estimates for each highway and Table 8 the breakdown
of construction cost by major items (earthworks, drainage etc.). A summary
of the project costs and the foreign exchange component (which the loan will
finance) follows:
Ps Millions            US$ Millions       Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
1. Highways
(a) To be im-
proved (5)   170.2    83.9   254.1   13.6    6.7   20.3         33
(b) To be con-
structed (5) 230.7   113.6   344.3   18.5    9.1   27.6         33
Subtotal     400.9   197.5   598.4   32.1   15.8   47.9
2.  Right-of-Way        2.6       -       2.6    0.2      -     0.2
3. Contingencies
(on item 1)
Physical, 10%      40.1    19.7    59.8    3.2    1.6    4.8         33
Escalaction,
about 8%           32.1    15.8    47.9    2.5    1.4    3.9         33
Subtotal     475.7   233.0   708.7   38.0   18.8   56.8
4.  Interest and Other
Charges during
Construction         -      37.5    37.5      -     3.0    3.0    100
Total        475.7   270.5   746.2   38.0   21.8   59.8
4.05      Engineering for the proposed project is being carried out by SOP
and is about 95% complete.  Costs have been estimated by SOP on the basis
of almost completed detailed engineering and on unit prices drawn from
recently awarded contracts for similar works. These estimates are consider-
ed satisfactory.



- 14 -
4.06      The competence of SOP staff is such that the assistance of con-
sultants is only occasionally needed and thus, as for the previous Bank
loans to Mexico, consultants will not be employed for supervision. Six
percent has therefore been added to the cost of highway works to cover
SOP's expenditures thereon. The loan will finance these supervision costs
in the same proportion as applied to construction (para. 4.08). Contingency
allowances of lOZ for quantity increases and about 8% for general price
increases from the date of estimation to the completion of construction have
been provided.
4.07      Right-of-way will be needed for four of the project roads (Nos.
4, 5, 8 and 10). SOP is already negotiating with land owners and no dif-
ficulties are foreseen. The proposed loan will not finance right-of-way
costs.
4.08      The foreign component of construction cost has been estimated as
33% on the basis of an analysis of unit prices by SOP, amended by the Bank.
This estimate is based on the assumption that about 10% of all works would
be carried out by foreign contractors. This compares with the assumption
made in earlier loans that 25% would go to foreign bidders, which experi-
ence has shown so far to be too high. The foreign exchange component of
supervision cost (para. 4.06) has been taken to be of the same order as
that for construction.
4.09      It is recommended that the loan will finance the foreign exchange
cost of the project, as follows:
(a) 33% of construction costs, and
(b) 33% of supervision costs incurred by SOP calculated
as 6% of the corresponding construction cost.
Provision has been made in the loan to meet interest and other charges on
the loan during construction of the project. These are estimated to amount
to US$3.0 million equivalent.
4.10      The tentative annual breakdown between the estimated local and
foreign currency expenditures (excluding interest and other charges on the
loan) is as follows:
Total
Expenditures          Government Share        Bank  Share
Ps  Equiv. US$         Ps    Equiv. US$       Ps Equiv. US$
--------- MILLIONS ----------------------
1971                99.0      8.0           66.1       5.3        32.9    2.7
1972               240.9    19.3           161.8      13.0        79.1    6.3
1973               202.4    16.2          136.5       10.9        65.9    5.3
1974.              166.4    13.3          111.3        8.8        55.1    4.5
Totals        708.7    56.8          475.7       38.0       233.0   18.8



- 15 -
4.11      The local costs will be financed by the Government from budget
appropriations. However, since the Government plans to carry out other
large highway works concurrently, assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Bank project will be given due priority in the provision of
funds and that adequate funds will be made available promptly.
4.12      It is proposed that any surplus remaining in the loan account on
completion of the project should be cancelled.
D. Execution
4.13      Past experience in Bank projects has shown that foreign contrac-
tors' participation in road works in Mexico has been small, and, in fact,
only one foreign firm has recently been awarded a contract. A few foreign
firms have established local branches in Mexico or have entered into joint
ventures with local firms, but for other than highway work. In order
to encourage foreign participation and to maximize competition, the follow-
ing measures were agreed under Loan 528-ME:
(i) The Government will invite pre-qualification of contractors
annually until such time as all contracts have been awarded;
(ii)  Invitations to bid for each contract will be issued to eight
local and up to eight foreign firms, provided a sufficient
number of the latter are prequalified;
(iii) Contracts will be awarded for complete road sections; and
(iv)  Contracts will be awarded for the total cost of specific
road sections, rather than in annual tranches.
4.14      The above measures were reaffirmed for the present project during
loan negotiations. They have not, however, resulted in increased foreign
participation in Loan 528-ME. Although many foreign firms requested pre-
qualification documents, only two (one U.S. and one Israeli) completed these
and were prequalified; they have been invited to bid but have not submitted
proposals. It is probable that the main deterrent to foreign participation
is the efficiency of the Mexican contracting industry, coupled with the
availability of more profitable work elsewhere in the world. Only if
contracts were large could foreign firms expect to bid competitively and
profitably against Mexican contractors.
4.15      To enable both local and foreign firms to bid at levels at which
each could expect to be competitive, bids will as far as practicable be
invited both individually and on the basis of "packaging", whereby contracts
of a size suitable for local contractors would be grouped into packages which
should also be attractive to foreign bidders, providing up to six possible
contracts in the range US$3.4 to US$7.5 million. This arrangement (which is
detailed in Table 9) was confirmed during loan negotiations. Together with
the measures described in para. 4.13, it should increase the degree of com-
petition.



- 16 -
4.16      Construction contracts will be let on the basis of unit prices
after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's normal
procedures, except bridges over 15 m span, traffic signs and minor or
specialized works, which, in total, account for about 10% of the cost (about
Ps 73 million or US$5.8 million equivalent) and which may be awarded after
locally advertised competitive bidding. The timing for the award of bridge
contracts will be coordinated with the main construction works.
4.17      In 1967 the Government established a control office within SOP to
ensure that Bank projects are carried out efficiently as planned. This
arrangement has shown positive results for works under Loan 528-ME which,
so far, are below the original cost estimates and are being carried out
within the scheduled construction periods. The control office will also be
made responsible for checking the proposed Bank project.
4.18      SOP intends to begin prequalifying contractors by mid-1970 in
order that construction can start by late 1970. The project is expected
to be completed by late 1974.



- 17 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      Mexico's rising GDP, associated with more diversified and wide-
spread economic activities, creates growing freight and passenger traffic,
much of which can be moved most economically by road. It is thus important
to increase the productivity of highway transport by reducing operating costs
and travel time. This can be achieved by improving existing highways to allow
increased speeds and to reduce congestion, and by constructing new highways
to reduce distances. On the five roads to be improved (Nos. 1 to 5), user
savings result from better riding quality and reduced congestion, while on
the five roads to be constructed (Nos. 6 to 10), savings result primarily
from distance shortening. The proposed Tuxtepec-Matias Romero highway is
also expected to foster agricultural development in the region. The
individual highways in the project have estimated economic rates of return
varying between 10% and 29%. It is concluded, therefore, that the project
is justified.
B. Calculation of Economic Benefits
5.02      The methodology and factors influencing the evaluation of road user
savings and related economic benefits are discussed in Annex B. Following
are the results of the evaluation for each road in the project:
(i) Highways to be Improved
5.03      Chilpancingo-Tlapa (Chilpancingo-Chilapa Section No. 1 - 56 km) -
This highway penetrates the mountains of the State of Guerrero eastward to
the town of Tlapa. Population and agricultural production is largely concen-
trated in the valleys. The most important towns are Chilapa at km 56, and
Tlapa at the end of the road. The traffic has already built up substantially
on the first section of the road to Chilapa (56 km) and averages 220 v.p.d.
The growing demand for foodstuffs in Acapulco, 133 km from Chilpancingo, will
foster agricultural production in the region served by the highway, and trans-
port demand is expected to increase accordingly. On the remaining 120 km to
Tlapa, however, the traffic does not exceed an average of 80 v.p.d. at any
point.
5.04      Since the traffic characteristics of these two sections are so
different, they were evaluated separately. The benefits in terms of reduced
vehicle operating costs and reduced maintenance costs are expected to yield
a 23% rate of return over a 20-year life for the first section Chilpancingo-
Chilapa. Paving of the second section is not justified at this time and is
not included in the project.



- 18 -
5.05      Puerto Vallarta-Barra de Navidad (No. 2 - 221 km) - This highway
is a section of the Pacific coastal highway, constructed to gravel stand-
ards under Bank Loan 354-ME. Traffic has built up substantially, and agri-
culture - bananas and livestock - has developed in places. The proposed
light paving will substantially reduce vehicle operating costs and maintenance
costs by providing a better protection from the tropical storms experienced
along the Pacific Coast. On its first 20 km after Barra de Navidad, the
road would serve the beaches to be developed in the tourism project under
consideration by the Government for the Manzanillo region. The benefits, in
terms of reduced vehicle operating costs (not including any benefits from
tourism) are expected to yield a 14% rate of return over a 20-year life.
5.06      Apatzingan-Tepalcatepec (No. 3 - 67 km) - This road serves an
agricultural region of Michoacan State on the left flank of the Balsas
Valley. The population of the municipalities served by the road doubled
between 1950 and 1960, and is estimated to have doubled again during
this last decade to reach some 120,000. This growth has been reflected
by an increase in agricultural production and a shift from ranching to
more intensive farming, such as sugar cane and citrus.  The traffic on
the first section of the road (Apatzingan-Buenavista 33 km) already aver-
ages 640 v.p.d. and the road is deteriorating rapidly. The situation is
less critical on the Buenavista-Tepalcatepec section where traffic aver-
ages about 250 v.p.d. The saving in vehicle operating costs which will
result from improving the alignment and paving the road are estimated to
yield a rate of return of 30% on the first section, and 14% on the second
section over a 20-year life, an average rate of 23% for the road as a whole.
5.07      Zapotlanejo-Lagos (No. 4 - 158 km) - This highway branches off
the recently opened Guadalajara-Zapotlanejo toll-road built under Loan 401-
ME. Both this highway and No. 5 below converge toward Guadalajara, the
second largest city of the country with a population of 1.3 million. The
improvement of highway connections between thls city and other regions of
the country is important for Guadalajara's accelerated future development,
a goal of the Government related to its policy to reduce the degree of
economic concentration in Mexico City. Because of the high traffic volumes,
averaging from 1300 to 2400 v.p.d. on different sections, the highway
(built about 30 years ago to carry much lower and lighter traffic) is
deteriorating rapidly. Some sections close to Zapotlanejo are now being
strengthened and, if the project were not executed, this would have to be
done for the entire length over the next five years, at an estimated cost
of 200,000 pesos/km (US$16,000 equivalent). The reconstruction of the
highway will also lead to savings in maintenance costs. The proposed widen-
ing of the pavement from 6.0 and 6.6 m to 7.2 m, and the by-passes of four
towns (Zapotlanejo, Tepatitlan, Guadalupe and Jalostotitlan) will lead to
increased travel speeds and provide savings in vehicle operating costs. On
the basis of savings--i-n-operating and maintenance costs alone, benefits
over a 20-year life would yield a rate of return of 18% or more for each
section, with an average-rate of 23% for the road as a whole.



- 19 -
5.08      Santa Rosa - La Barca (No. 5 - 78 km) - This is part of an al-
ternative route from Guadalajara to La Piedad on the main Mexico City-
Guadalajara highway (via Irapuato). It also serves the northern shore of
Lake Chapala. Although the region is still predominantly agricultural,
some industry has recently located in towns served by the highway because of
the proximity to Guadalajara and the availability of water from the Santiago
River. The new Guadalajara airport, halfway between the city and Santa
Rosa, will favor further development of the city toward the east. The grow-
ing urban market for foodstuff will also put heavier demand on the agri-
cultural production in the rich Santiago River Valley. Traffic will soon
exceed what the present highway can efficiently handle. Average daily
traffic varies from 1600 to 1850 vehicles according to the section. Bene-
fits will be similar to those described above and are expected to yield a
rate of return of 17X over a 20-year life.
(ii) Highways to be Constructed
5.09      Compostela-Chapalilla (No. 6 - 37 km) - The growing population
of Guadalajara and the increasing income of its residents have generated
substantial demand for recreation and tourism.  This short new highway will
reduce the distance between Guadalajara and the coastal area of Puerto
Vallarta by 49 km and is expected to foster the touristic and recreational
development of the coast. The benefits resulting from savings in time and
distance are expected to yield a 29% rate of return over a 20-year life.
5.10      Tuxtepec-Matias Romero (DonaJ_) (No. 7 - 169 km) - This road
will reduce the travel distance between the more developed part of the
country centered on Mexico City and the region of the Gulf of Tehuantepec
(States of Oaxaca and Chiapas), and will integrate into the national econ-
omy the agricultural municipalities of the foothills of the Sierra Madre
de Oaxaca. Given the present highway network in the region, the new high-
way would represent an immaediate reduction in distance of some 115 km on
all itineraries between the region of Mexico City and the Gulf which would,
however, be lowered to 44 km after construction of the Ciudad Aleman-Sayula
highway (No. 9), in 1974.
5.11      The expected advantages are thus a reduction in distance of 44 km
for through traffic, reduced cost for farm-to-market transport presently
done over tracks in the portion of the zone of influence immediately south
of Tuxtepec (30 km), and the value added in agricultural production result-
ing from access to credit, extension services, etc. in the rest of the area
served by the road. The estimate of the value added to agricultural produc-
tion is based on conservative assumptions regarding the agricultural develop-
ment of the region (see Annex C). The benefits resulting from increased
agricultural production amount to slightly more than half the total bene-
fits. These combined benefits are expected to yield a 10% rate of return
over a 20-year life. Although low, this rate of return is not very sensitive
to changes in construction costs or agricultural benefits.



- 20 -
5.12      One of the purposes of this highway is to foster the agricultural
development of the area and this necessitates the construction of about
100 km of feeder roads, which the Government agrees will be built with
Government funds concurrently with the project road. The estimated cost of
these feeders, about Ps 6 million, has been included in the economic eval-
uation. Their location is shown in the Map to Annex C.
5.13      Ciudad Victoria-Tampico (No. 8 - 90 km) (Llera-Estacion Gonzalez
Section) - The solution proposed by SOP will reduce the distance between
ciudad Victoria and Tampico (292 km) by 45 km.  It comprises the improvement
and paving of an existing 27 km long gravel road and the construction of 63
km of new road. In addition to the distance reduction, there will be extra
benefits from the local traffic presently served by the gravel road, which
is through a well-cultivated valley. The benefits resulting from savings
in distance only are expected to yield an 11% rate of return over a 20 year
life.
5.14      Ciudad Aleman-Sayula (No. 9 - 135 km) - Both this highway and
No. 7 above reflect the policy to encourage economic development of the
southeast of the country and its integration into the national economy.
This road is designed both to serve the rich and rapidly developing region
of the lower Papaloapan and San Juan Rivers and to reduce the travel distance
between the region of Mexico City and the southeast of the country. The
proposed highway is parallel to a trunk line of the Mexican Railway, but
according to railroad statistics of composition of freight on this line, a
distribution of goods between rail and road has already taken place in the
region and no further shifts of traffic are expected from rail to road.
5.15      The expected advantages are a reduction in distance of some 50
km in all itineraries between Mexico City and the southeast, and reduced
vehicle operating costs for local traffic on tracks and penetration roads.
Because of the difficulty of assembling reliable data on local traffic,
only benefits from distance savings have been considered. They are expected
to yield a 23Z rate of return over a 20-year life.
5.16      Cardel-Veracruz (No. 10 - 31 km) - This new road will provide
more direct access to the city of Veracruz from the North, with distance
savings for traffic from Jalapa (8 km) and from the coastal highway (42 km).
The benefits due to relief of potential congestion on the old road have not
been included. The benefits resulting from savings in time and distance
are expected to yield an 18% rate of return over a 20-year life.



- 21 -
C. Other Benefits from the Project
5.17      While the rates of return calculated above adequately justify
all the elements of this project, there are additional benefits which,
although not easy to measure, are important to the national economy and to
the success of the Government's policy objectives. For example, the opening
of the two highways from Ciudad Aleman and Tuxtepec toward the east and the
southeast will foster the agricultural development of the potentially rich
area of the lower Papaloapan River Basin, while improving the communications
between the peripheral regions of Chiapas and Yucatan and the rest of the
country. The proposed improvement of roads in the region of Guadalajara
will help to strengthen the growth potential of this important urban center,
thus contributing to the diffusion of economic development away from Mexico
City.



- 22 -
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(i) The appropriate application of regulations on axle loading
and vehicle size (para. 3.05);
(ii)  The scudy (in collaboration with Caminos) of toll rates,
and subsequent discussion with the Bank on the need for
introducing new rates (para. 3.12);
(iii) The arrangements for packaging contracts (para. 4.15);
and
(iv)  The construction of about 100 km of feeder roads
concurrently with the Tuxtepec-Matias Romero road
(para. 5.12).
6.02      The completion of the contract rescheduling Caminos' debt will
be a condition for the effectiveness of the proposed loan.
6.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$21.8 million. On the basis of the economic life of the roads in the
project and their construction period, a term of 25 years, including a grace
period of five years, would be appropriate.
June 1, 1970



ANNEX A
THE PROJECT ROADS
The economic impact of the project roads is given in Chapter 5 --
Economic Evaluation - and their design standards are given in Table 5. The
description of each project road follows:
A. Roads to be Improved
1.        Chilpancingo-Tlapa (No. 1) (Chilpancingo-Chilapa Section - 56
km) - The Chilpancingo-Tlapa road (176 km) which is gravel surfaced was
built between 1954 and 1964; bridges have recently been completed. The
road, which crosses six mountain ranges with elevations from 1,600 to 2,300
m, has two well defined sections: from Chilpancingo to Chilapa, agricul-
tural development has taken place and traffic averages 220 v.p.d. while
traffic on Chilapa-Tlapa section is about one third of the above figure.
The proposed loan will finance only the works on the Chilpancingo-Chilapa
section. These will comprise the widening of earthworks to 7.00 m, the -
construction of additional drainage structures and of the base, and a
single bituminous surface treatment.
2.        Puerto Vallarta-Barra de Navidad (No. 2) - The construction of
this 221 km road up to the sub-base was partially financed under Loan
354-ME, overall progress is 95% and bridge construction, the only pending
work, will be completed by December 1970. This road is a part of the
Pacific coastal highway, and its completion is expected to foster the
agricultural development of the area. It will link the important tourist
center and beach resort of Puerto Vallarta with Manzanillo, where the Gov-
ernment has already undertaken the study of a comprehensive tourist de-
velopment project, which would include the construction of an internation-
al airport. The work proposed includes the construction of additional
drainage structures, the provision of base and a double bituminous surface
treatment 8.00 m wide.
3.        Apatzingan-Tepalcatepec (No. 3) - The main purpose of this 67 km
road is to serve the adjacent agricultural areas; the present road, which
crosses flat and rolling terrain, was opened to traffic in the early six-
ties. It is only paved for 10 km, and the condition of the remaining 57 km
is poor, drainage is insufficient and most of the bridges are still to be
built. The proposed improvement works will include some realignment,
earthworks, additional drainage structures, eighteen bridges with a total
length of about 346 m. and the provision of a sub-base, base and a double
bituminous surface treatment 7.00 m wide.
4.        Zapotlanejo-Lagos (No. 4) - This 158 km long road, which was
built thirty years ago is a part of the trunk road joining Guadalajara with
the important cities of San Luis Potosi and Leon (the capital of the state
of Guadalajara). The road is not suitable for present heavy traffic and



ANNEX A
Page 2
the pavement is deteriorating rapidly. In addition, the road crosses sev-
eral towns, where congestion delays through traffic. The works proposed
will comprise the widening of the roadway and drainage structures, the
construction of 14 bridges with a total length of about 415 m, the strength-
ening of the base, a 7.20 m wide asphaltic-concrete surface and the con-
struction of by-passes of the cities of Zapotlanejo, Tepatitlan, Guadalupe
and Jalostotitlan.
5.        Santa Rosa-La Barca (No. 5) - This 78 km road, in flat terrain
along the Chapala lake, offers an alternative route between Guadalajara
and La Piedad. Reconstruction would cover the same works as for the
Zapotlanejo-Lagos Road, except that neither new bridges nor by-passes are
needed.
B. Highways to be Constructed
6.        Compostela-Chapalilla (No. 6) - This 37 km long road will cross
rolling and mountainous terrain and will provide a shortcut for through
traffic from Guadalajara to Puerto Vallarta, reducing the distance by 49
km, and avoiding the city of Tepic. Proposed works comprise earthworks,
five bridges, drainage structures, one railway overpass, and sub-base, base
and a 8.00 m wide double bituminous surface treatment.
7.        Tuxtepec-Matias Romero (Donaji) (No. 7) - This new road, 169 km
long, starts in the foothills of the Sierras bordering the Papaloapan River
basin (a very rich agricultural area), but for the last 30 km to Donaji,
the terrain is mountainous and heavily forested. The proposed works in-
clude earthworks, 32 bridges with a total length of about 1,670 m, drainage
structures, sub-base, base and a 7.00 m wide double bituminous surface
treatment.
8.        Ciudad Victoria-Tampico (No. 8) (Llera-Estacion Gonzalez Section)
- The existing road between Ciudad Victoria and Tampico is about 292 km long
and the proposed direct route will shorten this distance considerably. This
route will involve (a) 63 km of earthworks and drainage structures between
Estacion Gonzalez and Zaragoza, 350 m of bridging, sub-base, base and 7.00
m single bituminous surface treatment; and (b) the improvement of the ex-
isting secondary road 27 km long between Zaragoza and Llera comprising the
widening of earthworks and drainage structures and the provision of a base
and 7.00 m single bituminous surface treatment.
9.        Ciudad Aleman-Sayula (No. 9) - The construction of this 135 km
long road will provide a route about 50 km shorter for the traffic between
the center and the southeast of the country. It will cross the Papaloapan
river over a 286 m long toll bridge financed in 1965/66 under Loan 317-ME.
The proposed works include earthworks, 23 bridges with a total length of
about 1,020 m, three railroad overpasses, drainage structures, sub-base,
base and a 8.00 m single surface treatment.



ANNEX A
Page 3
10.       Cardel-Veracruz (No. 10) - This 31 km long road will be part of
the coastal highway along the Gulf of Mexico and will provide a route 8
km shorter for the traffic to Veracruz from the Northern and Central part
of the country. The proposed works comprise earthworks, three bridges
with a total length of about 215 m, drainage structures, sub-base, base
and 7.20 m asphaltic concrete pavement.
June 1, 1970






ANNEX B
ROAD USER SAVINGS AND OTHER ECONOMIC BENEFITS
1.        Following are the details of the methodology and the discussion
of the various factors influencing the evaluation of road user savings and
related economic benefits. The results of the evaluation for each item in
the project are given in Chapter 5.
2.        The main elements influencing the evaluation of road user savings
and related economic benefits are:
a)   the base year traffic;
b)   the rate of traffic growth; and
c)   the costs of vehicle operation.
3.         Base year traffic - For improvement projects, base year traffic
was determined from traffic counts. For new roads, since they are all short-
cuts, base year traffic was determined by origin/destination surveys on
existing routes. In all cases, the data appear reliable.
4.        Traffic growth rates - The system of annual traffic counts on
most segments of the federal highway network is too recent to forecast
trends of traffic growth for individual highways. SOP has made the fol-
lowing assumptions to forecast traffic on the project highways:
a)   between 1969 and opening, growth rates would be similar to
those observed over the past 2-3 years (around 7% p.a.); and
b)   following opening, growth rates would progressively increase
to 15-16% p.a. and decline again toward a constant growth
of 8% p.a. for the last 10 years of project life.
The high growth rates in the years following opening are justified in
the case of new roads as they reflect traffic generated by the roads, but
may be optimistic for existing highways; for evaluation, therefore, traf-
fic growth rates have been limited to 10% and rates of 3% to 8% have been
used for years beyond 1980. The rate of return is not greatly affected
by a change in the rate of traffic growth after 10 years.
5.        As the forecasts of growth rates in the distant future are unre-
liable, the minimum levels of traffic necessary to generate constant annual
benefits that would yield a 10% rate of return over a 20-year life have
also been determined for each road. They are given in Table 1 and compared
with 1969 traffic and traffic estimates at project completion date. If
existing traffic or estimated traffic at the time of road completion is
already higher than or equal to the minimum level of traffic needed to
justify the investment - this is the case for five of the roads in the
project (Nos. 1, 2, 3, 6, 9) - the estimate of future growth rates is not
important. If existing, or estimated traffic at opening is lower than the



ANNEX B
Page 2
minimum level, the justification will depend more upon the rate of traffic
growth, and the further the base year traffic is from the minimum required
traffic, the greater the risk that the investment might not be justified.
This is the case for the five remaining roads in the project. However, for
four of those (Nos. 4, 5, 8, and 10), estimated traffic at opening is al-
ready 80% or more of the minimum needed to justify the investment without
further growth, and the risk that the investment might not be justified is
small since traffic is expected to grow on all four roads. For the Tuxte-
pec-Matias Romero Road (No. 7) estimated traffic at opening is only about
a third of the minimum level, and it is clear that the project cannot be
justified on the basis of road user savings only. Benefits resulting from
increased agricultural production have been considered (see Annex C). This
check thus provides a test of sensitivity.
6.        Vehicle operating costs - the costs of vehicle operation have been
updated by SOP for this project and are satisfactory (Table 2). The influ-
ence of congestion on vehicle operating costs has been taken into account
using speed/volume relations of the Highway Capacity Manual. Operating
costs include bus and truck drivers' salaries, but no passenger time savings
have been included in the benefits.
7.        Other economic benefits - It has been estimated that improvement
of existing highways (Nos. 1 to 5) would reduce annual maintenance costs
on these roads by almost 40%; however, the contribution of these benefits
to the economic rates of return of these roads is negligible (1 to 2 per-
centage points on rates of return ranging from 15% to 25X with user savings
only). Great precision is not important in the estimation of annual main-
tenance costs to justify the investment.
8.        In the case of the Tuxtepec-Matias Romero road, benefits result-
ing from user savings have been complemented by benefits expected from
agricultural development triggered by the opening of the road.



MEXICO
FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Constant Annual      Corresponding       1969 Traffic      Estimated   Rate of
Benefits (20 years)  M4inimum Traffic             As ; of  traffic at Return
Econo 1c   giving a 10% rate    giving a 10%       Vehicle/ min.       openij       (best
HIGHWAYS                       Cost -     of return             rate of return   day         traffic  date        estimate)
Veh/fly_                          -jh7~:y-
To be improved                 - --------   MPs  illion-
1. Chilpancingo-Tlapa            18.3             2.1                200            220        110       290         23
(Chilpancingo-
Chilapa Section)
2. Puerto Vallarta-              73.0             9.7                 200           150         75       220         14
Barra de Navidad
3. Apatzingan-Tepalcatepec 2/   39.9              5.0                 500           )-40        88       700         23
4. Zapotlanejo-Lagos 2/          99.2            13.7              2,400          1,850         77     2,200         23
5. Santa Rosa-La Barca 2/        59.8             7.4               3,000         13670         56     2,W0          17
To be constructed
6. Compostela-Chapalilla         26.5             3.3                 320           400        127       590         29
7. Tuxtepec-Matias Romero 3/   154.8             21.3              1,400            250         18       350         10
8. Ciudad Victoria-Tampico       56.5             7.4                 420           250         60        340        11
(Llera-Estacion Gonzalez
Section)
9. Ciudad Aleman-Sayula         126.3            17.6                 820            770        94      1,080        23
10..Cardel-Veracruz               34.0             4.2               1,420         1,000         70      1,360        18
1/ Includes engineering, physical contingencies and right-of-way.
2/ Weighted average of traffic on the individual sections.                                                             I
3/ Only about half of the benefits resulting from the construction of this highway result from
road user savings, other benefits result from stepped-up agricultural development.
D 
I-U 1970



A`TrI a 8
TABLE 2
MEXICO
FO'I,'Id ROAD PR0J-CT
:stiimated Vehicle Operating Costs
(in US$ equivalent per 1000 kIn)
Vehicle opeed           5ll .1/                                         TTS f, 2/
Pavcd  Crayel  '.arth  1)led  Cr-ave.  artlh  Paved  Cravel  Lartc
20        57.36  62.56   72.eP  1h4.5  175.0   221.9  129.4  161.5   235.8
30        44.16  49.36   59.28  121.9  152.3   198.5  111.8  144.6   217.1
40        37.28  42.56   52.00  111.0  141.7   1P7-5  104.0  137.3   209.0
50        33.60  31.80   4   .oo 105.6  136.6   151.9  101.1  134.4   206.0
60        30.96  36.32   45.20  102.9  133.8   179.1  101.1  134.6   206.4
70        29.60  35.04   43.92  102.6  133.2   178.9  103.4  136.9   209.2
80        29.04  34.32   42..  103.6  134.2   180.6  107.2  140.4         -
90       .2P.88    -        -    1o5.f,    -        -    112.2    -        -
100        29.60.   -        -    109.0    -         -      -       -       -
11   Ueighted average of operating costs of small, average and large cars
according to the composition of the fleet.
2/  W:eighted average of operating costs of 2 axles, 3 and 4 axles, and 5+
axles trucks according to the conposition of the fleet.
Source: SOP
February 1970.



ANNEX C
TUXTEPEC-MATIAS ROMERO (DONAJI) ROAD (169 km)
Impact on Agricultural Development
1.        The economic benefits expected from increased agricultural pro-
duction due to the construction of the proposed Tuxtepec-Matias Romero
(Donaji) road are as follows:
2.        Area of Influence - The road will run through largely undeveloped
areas of the states of Veracruz and Oaxaca, in the foothills of the Sierra
Madre de Oaxaca. The area of influence, calculated to be 6,600 km2, ex-
tends some 20 miles on either side of the proposed alignment (see Map).
3.        Ecology, Soils and Climate - The ecology of the area of influence
is uniform, characterized in its virgin state with humid tropical forest 10
to 15 m high and in its secondary state with thick bush 3 to 5 m high.
Most of the original millable wood has been removed from the area, and no
significant benefits are likely to result if a road is constructed. The
soils are lateritic and generally well drained, suitable for a wide variety
of crops such as sugar, fruit, cereals, and beans; the alluvial soils are
suitable for rainfed rice.  Average temperatures for the area are 30  - 32 C
from March to October, falling to about 25 C for the remainder of the year.
Rainfall averages 2,200 to 2,400 mm per annum.
4.        Present Land Use - It is estimated that out of a zone of influence
of 660,000 ha, some 78,000 ha are presently cultivated, and another 122,000
ha are in pasture.   The population of the area is estimated at some 95,000.
The area immediately south of Tuxtepec is quite heavily cultivated and the
most important crop is sugar cane, planted on 12,000 ha (this cane is de-
livered to the Tuxtepec sugar mill which has ample capacity for the crop);
in addition, there are some 2,000 ha of citrus, and 21,000 ha of maize,
beans and sesame, and 20,000 ha of pasture. Further south, in the munici-
palities of Playa Vicente, Choapan & Mixe, the population is scattered and
cropping activities center around rice, beans, sesame, and maize in units
of 3 to 5 hectares (total 43,000 ha). Cultivation is by hand, and farmers
keep livestock on 100,000 ha of rough pasture.
5.        Future Land Use - The agricultural potential of the area is
good. Where roads have been constructed and credit made available in
similar agricultural areas nearby, development has been quite impressive;
for instance, in the vicinity of Tuxtepec alone there is a large sugar mill
(capacity 100,000 tons) and four pineapple factories which are at present
fully supplied with fruit.   There is little doubt that the less developed
part of the zone of influence could grow good crops of sugar, pineapple
and citrus, but in the absence of plans for factory expansion, it is more
realistic to look at the expansion possibilities in terms of maize, rice,
beans, sesame and livestock. Those crops are well known to the people,
they require relatively little in the way of extra on-farm investment,
and little or no additional investment for marketing.



ANNEX C
Page 2
6.        It is estimated that by supplying small amounts of credit for
drought animals, plows and breeding stock, cultivation will rise by 2
hectares per family for those that avail themselves of credit and that
the growth of the cattle herd will increase significantly beyond the
present. It is further estimated that over a 10-year period some 10,000
farmers would avail themselves of credit facilities, or 50% of the 20,000
farmers expected to be in the area at this time.
7.        Before calculating the estimated benefits due to the road it is
necessary to project the estimated development without it, except in the
Tuxtepec Municipio, where it is considered that a new road would not con-
tribute to increased agricultural development. Allowing for a normal growth
rate in agricultural production, in sympathy with the population increase
of 3%, it is calculated that all the arable land and most of the pasture
land would be developed over a period of 20 years (Table). However, with
a modest credit program, made possible by the new road, peak development
would be reached in Year 11 (Table) and the ensuing benefits attributable
to the new road. No provision is made for improved seed or fertilizer and
no increase in yield levels has been assumed, because, where land is not
the limiting factor, farmers will tend to increase the gross area under pro-
duction rather than increase yields.
8.        Benefits - Based on the former assumptions, the net benefits from
increased agricultural production attributable to the road have been esti-
mated as follows for the 20 years following road construction:
Year           1     2      3     4     5      6     7      8     9      10
Million Ps    -   -1.5   0.9   3.3   5.8   8.5  11.4  14.5  17.6   20.7
Year          11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
Million Ps   23.8 23.7   22.3  23.7  22.0  19.2  17.6  16.6  13.4  27.9 /1
/l   Includes residual value of livestock.
Road user savings both on local transport and on through traffic have
been added to these increases in value added to agriculture to determine
the total benefits of the investment (Chapter 5).



?IEXICO
FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
Estimated Growth of Agriculture with and without the proposed
'4atias Romero-Tuxtepec road (excluding the Tuxtenec M4unicipio)
'000 hectares
Year                     1   2   3   h   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  2C  21
CROPS
without road            53 4  56  58  60  62  6   66  68  70 727             7678  80  82 4  86  88 90    91
with road               53  55  59  63  67  71  75  79  83  87  91  91  91  91  91  91  91  91  91  91  91
Increase resulting from
road                          -   1   3   5   7   9  11  13  15  17  19  17  15  13  11   9   7   5   3   1   0
PASTURES
without road          102 10' 1r9 11i 114 117 120 123 126 129 133 137 141 1455 1 h  153 157 161 166 171
with road                - 107 114 123 132 141 15- 1- 168 175 187 190 190 190 190 190 190 190 190 190
Increase resulting from
road                              2   6  12  18  24  30  36  42  148  54  53  49  45  41  37  33  29  24  19
arch 20, 1969






ANNI7X C
0      ,.   /                 | Xierra Blanca                                                SantiagoTuxti       untla      t   9
mIzoeopon
pot,4- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yiolg
| A 9 v \ 1, ~~~~~~~~~~~Novlillero                    iCocainguis /t) 
Sta Moria
Cbilchothluda                                     __Cl  Cu d                                      Los Mangos
n   Tenorgo                             Ae                                                         eoii
<, Huouth   ixcP                                     J        vn ;                     SSf    ultl<
1-e       Teutila  -'
Teotilolpan             Santa Maria C         li        l         on Felipe                                 EaSan Ju3n Engelista
PAPALO                                                                                                                            a rroyO8lan!o
Ouiotewc    i)    '2-#-+    S-h&   \  .fio"' iin
R~~~~~~~~~i I'S                           r'oe \/                               ~f                t oaf
E       lantWM A         l de I hnn ctt
Quiotopec     Toolapa
0 SlA a\ ToynJuon                    L Guaoot*
S>>   OSa3nF9oYoi,uls                  * _wA  .to   .eSU~~~~~~aranza
<            geiataJo dra t_ue at^ e                         Santiago Chocapn                    _. 
-oc   Proposed  Tuxtepec-onaj   roadontepec                                                               Fe
Tracks1                            ,       /z1             Zacatepec                        ago Tutlo
/ -                      , un*cal  boundaries                     Cotzocon                                       Polomcres
Gep Etla pv         e          8moJurz J                 /    Ministlcn   _0X 
~~~~~ \t { | ~~~~~ j | 1t                                                           y                    /                   Sto \SAna
Mon1e    < _   /   t                      _fTC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~huitoltepec        San Jua n Mazatlan 
-11Albana                ~<   iaz  o                         _ lo Ayutla      Sa MQuelzfee                          ,.                    edraEl?n
I Tuxtepec~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qetatee
iixe                             MeXCO                                                       SaSnonLuccs              _l
ChilMteco                                   6                                                            El Barr9o
(              t--3\<                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sta.MorioGuinogal;\_ 
\    Las Margariias    .              i  =9                                 '>
Totoop       e     a                                  >    o                                        ll
Proposed Tuxtepec-Donj   road                                                                                         t  'gxt pec 
Proposed feeder roads                                 >                                 0sPdn*t8                           $1
Area of influence                                                                                      S7an Ped
Main roads                                                 Vl                                                    &     5
Other roads                                                                                     Oa  \eusAe             _wJcbd
Tracks _   \H'zQo
|       Railways                                                    9 < .\,'                          _             pA 
Mfunicipal boundaries                                                                                        a  euntpc Srero
MIUNICIPIOS Lk
I Tuxtepec\
II Playa Vicente                                                                                                   __- __
,, M ixeP                                                 ME X ICOSaicCu
0 5 lo 20    40    FOURTH ROAD PROJE<E,    rtntepec
-1,6                    KILOMETERS                             960                                                      G'31 OJf      95    /6<
FEBRUARY  I970                                                                                                                        IB!.TD-2788






TABLE 1
IrXCO
FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
Railway Statistics 1958-1968
Total Length of       Passenger Traffic              Freight Traffic
Railway Routes   hillions of  Millions of          Millions   Millions
(kn)         Passengers    Passengers-km    of Tons       of tons-ku
1958         23,456            29.3           3,491            28.2        12,809
1959         23,292            30.6           3,725            28.5        12,230
1960         23,368            32.6           4,127            32.2        14,004
1961         23,487            33.6           4,287            30.6        13,524
1962         23,501            3h.5           3,769            30.6        13,521
1963         23,793            35.7           3,898            34.2        14,960
1964         23,618            37.5           4,097            37.4        16,330
1965         23,672            37.3           3,881            41.0        18,326
1966         23,672            38.0          44,100            40.4        18,400
1967         23,677            38.9           4,252            43.4        19,732
1968         23,677            38.8           4,398            45.0        20,654
Averge annual growth rte:                      2.4%                          5.0%
Avera   length of journey
in  690                                       11-l                         462 km
Source: SCT and SOP
February 1 970.



TABLE 2
AEXTCO
FOURTH PRAD PROJECT
Length of Highways, 1958 to 1968
(Kilometers)
Year     Federal     State      Local     Toll     Total
1958     16,997      12,032    2,750       296     32,075
1959     21,001      13,314    2,900       296     37,511
1960     21,495      20,243    2,920       296     44,P954
1961     23,647      22,396    3,267       296     49,606
1962     22,685      27,093    3,310       452     53,540
1963     23,723      28,503   14,360       452     57,038
1964     24,663      29,514    5,765       498     60,1440
1965     25,195      28,807    6,695       555     61,252
1966     25,773      31,361    5,826       741     63,701
1967     26,0o42     31,302    6,865       886     65,095
1968     27,058      31,030    7,937       961     66,986
Average
annual
growth rate 4.9%     10%        11.2p      12.5%   7.7%
Source: Secretarla de Obras Publicas
February 1970.



TABLE 3
iIE-CICO
FOURTH ROAD PFIOJECT
Number of Motor Vehicles Registered 1958 to 1968
Thousands)
Year              Automobiles       Buses           Trucks            Total
1958                 378.9           22.7            273.8            675.4
1959                 437.7           25.9            300.9            764.5
1960                 483.1           26.1            293.4            802.6
1961                520.7            33.4           300.2             854.3
1962                 548.2          26.1             327.9            902.2
1963                 618.0           27.6            352.7            998.3
1964                687.8           29.5             364.1          1,081.4
1965                 771.1           30.7            388.1          1,189.9
1966                 812.4           27.5            408.5          1,248.4
1967                 917.4           27.6            44o.3          1,385.3
1968                 999.9          29.4             465.8          1,495.1
Average annual
growth rate           9.8p           2.6%             5.5%             8.3%
Source: Anuario Zstadistico de Los E;stados Unidos Hlexicanos and SOP
February 1970.



TABLE 4
HEXICO
FOURTH ROAT PIOJECT
'igiay Ftcpenditur2s 1958-1968 2
(Ps million)
Highways
Year            Federal         Toll      State and Local           Total
1958              554            65             261                  880
1959              688            67             280                 1035
1960              625            59             257                  941
1961              484           161             259                  901z
1962              647           105             262                 101h
1963              711           11              323                 1175
1964              953           300             463                 1716
1965              8441          320             5L4O                1704L
1966              910           436             481                 1827
1967              912           383             499                 1794
1968              912           272             604                 1788
1/  Construction , miaintenance and administrA ion
Source: Secretaria de Obras Publicas
February 1970.



TABLE 5
'IEXICO
FOURnT ROAD PROJECT
Design Standards
Flat and   Hilly     1edium         Heavy
Geometric Design        Unit  Rolling    Country   Mountainous  Hiountainous
Coulntry 
Special
Design speed                 WKh   100           90        70             60
W-Jidth of roadway:
two lanes              Meter  9 to 13    9 to 13   9 to 13         9 to 13
four lanes             Meter  21.8        21.8       21.8          21.8
Wlidth of surfacing:
two lanes              M4eter  7.2        7.2        7.2           7.2
four lanes             Heter  2 x 7.5    2 x 7.5   2 x 7.5         2 x 7.5
TLxiJmu radius of curvature  MIeter  316         251       145            105
Aaximum .,Irade                 ,    4.0        5.0        5.5            6.0
Type A VIodified (Primary)
Design speed                  Km/h  100          90        70             60
Wiridth of roadway            Meter  9 to 11    9 to 11   9 to 11         9 to 11
TJidth of surfacing           iIeter  7.2        7.2       7.2            7.2
Mlinimum radius of curvature  ITeter 316         251       145            105
Maximum grade                   %    4.o         5.0       5.5            6.o
Type B (Secondary)
Design speed                  7zVh   90          P0        60             50
lidth of roadway              :.eter  e          8         7.5            7.5
rTidth of surfacing            :-eer  8          8         7.5            7.5
Hinimum radius of curvature  Meter  251          194.      105            71
Maximum grade                   %    4.5         5.5       6              6.5
Type C (Tertiary)
Design speed                  KWh   80           70        50             30
Wlidth of roadw^ay            Aeter  7.0         7.0       7.0            6.5
'Jcidth of surfacing         MIeter  7.0         7.0       7.0            6.5
Minimum radius of curvature  IAeter  194         145       71             25
Maximum grade                   %    5           6         6.5            7
load design for bridges: HS-15 (AWSHO)
Axle Load: 10,880 kg
Source: Secretaria de Obras Publicas
February 1970.



TABLE 6
NMICO
FOURUH ROAD PROJE3T
Project Hi&waZs: Lenth, ZMand Surface
Type
Length in Km    (See Table 5)    Surfacing  /
A. Highway to be  improved
1. Chilpancingo-Tlapa
(Chilpancingo-Chilapa
Section)                           56               C             SST
2. Puerto Vallarta-Barra de
Navidad                           221               B              DST
3. Apatzingan-Tepalcatepec             67               C              DST
4. Zapotlanejo-Lagos                  158               A modified      AC
5. Santa Rosa-La Bsrca                 78               A modified      AC
B. Highways to be constructed
6. Compostela-Chapalilla               37               B              DST
7. Tuxtepec -1atias Romero
(Donaji)                          169               C             DST
8. Ciudad Victoria-Tampico (Llera-
Estacion Gonzalez Section          90               C             SST
9.  Ciudad Aleman-Sayula              135               B              SST
10.  Cardel-Veracruz                    31               A modified     AC
Total 1042
/ SST a Single Surface Treatzment
DST - Double Surface Treatment
AC = Asphaltic Concrete
May 1970



MEXICO
FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
Cost Estimate of Project Highways
Contingencies
Length  Construction  Supervision   Sub   Physical       Escalation
Highways                      Km        Cost           6%       Total    (10%)           (8%)     Total
-------------------------Pesos Millions-
(a)   To be improved
1.   Chilpancingo-Tlapa (Chilpan-
cingo-Chilapa Section)            56       15.1          0.9       16.0      1.6            1.3      18.9
2.   Puerto Vallarta-Barra de
Navidad                          221       60.4          3.6       64.0      6.4            5.1      75.5
3.   Apatzingan-Tepalcatepec             67        33.0         2.1        35.1     3.5            2.8      41.4
4.   Zapotlanejo-Lagos                  158        82.1         4.9        87.0     8.7            7.0     102.7
5.   Santa Rosa-La Barca                 78        49.1         2.9        52.0     5.2            4.2      61.4
5tio     239.7         14.4      254.1    215.           20.4      299.9
(b)   To be constructed
6.   Conpostela-Chapalilla               37        23.1         1.4        24.4     2.4            1.9       28.7
7.   Tuxtepec-Natias Ronero (Donaji)   169        122.9         7.4       13o.4    13.0           10.4     153.8
8.   Ciudad Victoria-Tarpico (Liera-
Estacion Gonzalez Section)        90       46.7          2.8       49.5      5.0            4.0      58.5
9.   Ciudad Aleman-Sayula               135       104.0         6.2       110.2    11.0            8.8      130.0
10.   Cardel-Veracruz                     31        28.1         1.7        29.8     3.0            2.4       35.2
Sub Total       462       327.8        19.5       344.3    34.4           27.5     T-06.2
Total     1,042      564.5         33.9      598.h    59.8            47.9     706.1 1/
(us$56.6 mill.
1/    Does not include right-of-way costs totalling about Ps 2.6 million (US$208.000 equivalent);  equivalent)
including right-of-way the total cost is Ps 708.7 Uillion (US$56.8 million equivalent).
May 1970
t__



MEXICO
FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
Analysis of Construction Cost Estimates by Items
Total Construct.
Length                                      Sub   Bridges over   Signs    Sub       Cost (without
Highways           Km       Earthworks  Drainage  Pavement Total    15m Span    & Misc. Total   Contingencies)
-----Pesos Millions---------------- --------------------
(a) To be improved
1.   Chilpancingo-Tlapa
(Chilpancingo-Chilapa
Section)                56          0.3       3.2       11.2    14.7        -          0.4      0.4          15.1
2.   Puerto Vallarta-Barra                                                                     2
de Navidad             221           -        9.6       48.1    57.7        _           2.7     2.7           60.
3.  Apatzingan-Tepalcatepec   67           8.4       6.6        12.0    27.0       5.5         0.5     6.0           33.0
4.   Zapotlanejo-Lagos         158        16.5       5.6        51.5   73.6        7.4         1.1     8.5           82.1
5.   Santa Rosa-La Barca        78        12.3       3.5        32.3   48.1        0.4         0.6     1.0           49.1
58037.5                         155.1   213.1      T 3h     239.7      T7
(b)  &LYbecosoguicted
6.   Comnpostela-Chapalilla     37         8.5       5.5         7.2    21.2       1.6         0.3     1.9           23.1
7.   Tuxtepec_1,atias Romero
(DonaJi)               169         33.7      18.1       42.4    94.2       27.7        1.0    28.7          122.9
8. Ciudad Victoria-Tapico
(Llera-Estacion Gonzalez
Section)                 90         18.3       5.9       17.8    42.0        4.1        0.6      4.7          46.7
9.   Ciudad Aleman-Sayula      135        33.8      12.1        42.9   88.8       14.2         1.0    15.2          104.0
10.   Cardel-Veracruz            31         9.5       1.9        12.5    23.9       4.0         0.2     4.2           28.1
462       103.8      43.5       122.8  270.1       51.6         3.1    54.7          324.8
Totals    1 ,o42      141.3       72.0      277.9  491.2        64.9        8.4    73.3          564.5 1/
1/   Does not include right-of-way costs:  total including right-of-way if Ps 567.1 million
Source: Secretaria de Obras Publicas
MaY 1970



TABLE 9
MEXICO
FOURTH ROAD PROJWET
Schedule of Individual
Contracts and Packages of Contracts
Number of  Value of   Packages
Construction  Individual  Individual      of
Cost       Contracts   Contracts  Contracts
Pe       US$
Millions                     US$ Millions
1. Chilpancingo-Tlapa
(Chilpancingo-Chilapa
Section)                   14.7    1.1       1           1.1
2.  Puerto Vallarta-Barra de
Navidad                    57.7    4.6       2           2.3        4.6
3.  Apatzingan-Tepalcatepec      27.0    2.2        1          2.2
)4. Zapotlanejo-Lagos            73.6    6.o        3          2.0         6.o
5. Santa Rosa-La Barca           48.1    3.8        2          1.9         3.8
6. Compostela-Chapalilla         21.2    1.7        1          1.7
7. Tuxtepec-Matias Romero
(Donaji)                   94.2    7.5       3           2.5        7.5
8. Ciudad Victoria-Tampico
(Llera-Estacion Gonzalez
Section)                   42.0    3.4       2           1.7        3.4
9.  Ciudad Aleman-Sayula         88.8    7.2        3          2.4         7.2
10.  Cardel-Veracruz              23.9    1.9        1          1.9
Total    491.2   39.4       19
j/ Excluding engineering and contingencies and Ps 73 million for
contracts to be awarded through local bidding (see para. 4.15)
May 1970



TABLE 1 0
MEXICO
FOURTH ROAD PTrOJEC T
traJ.ect Hip   s  Traffl.c
CVehicles per day)
Chilpancingo-            PLierto Vellarta-           Apatzingan-
flaiz (Ilb.1)           Barra de I.avidad           Tepalcatepec
(Chilpancingo-               (1o . 2)                   (o.3)
Chilapa Section)
1969             220                       150                       4140
1975            390                       270                        780
9890            550                       350                       1,110
1985             770                       450                      1,560
b990           1,070                       560                     2,200
2Zapotlanejo-   Santa Rosa-       Conipostela-       Tuxtepec-
:3;,Sos 1       La Barca j        Chapalilla         l4atias Romero
( .Jo.1 4        (-To7 -. 5).  (-,'o.6)                (No.7)
1969           1, 850        1, 670              400                250
1975          2,760          2,640                720               350
19ro           3,690         3,880             1,070                500
1985          4,66o           5,290             1,300                675
1990          5,400          7,080             1,510                910
Ciudad Victoria-         Ciudad AiLeman-             Cardel-
Tamop.co                 SaytQa                     Veracruz
1o. 88)                  (. .9 )                  (No.10)
1969            250                                                 1,000
1975            360                     1 J)Co                      1,590
1980            480                     i ;8%0                     2,330
1985            640                     2,620                      3,430
1990             60                     3,670                      5,030
/  lWeighted average of traffic tn the indiviti al sections.
Source: SOP and BANK
February, 1970



MEXICO: FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE SECRETARIAT OF PUBLIC WORKS
[         0   ~~SECRETARY OF PUBLIC WORKS                       
|   SECRETARIAT    I                    I                        LTECHNICAL ADVISORS         AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS]
UNDER SECRETARY    - --- -
1                                                       F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~SPECIFICATIONS  F UNIT PRICES 1
TECHNICAL ADVISOR J         SECRETARIAT                                                       I  COMMITTEE         I    [    COMMITTEE        I
CONTROL OFFICE
( BANK PROJECTS )                                                              .
l~~~~ SENIOR OFFICER                           ---                         -      -- ,
ADMINISTRATIVE   1                                                                            [                              REGISTRY OF
RELATIONSHI P               SECRETARIAT                                                        TECHNICAL ADVISORS            EM PLOYE ES
WITH THE STATES
G    E    N    E    R    A                      L              D         /        R    E    C    T    0    R    A    T                             i E    5:
F   0 o | R                  w    0 o                 K                   F      0    R                  s    F    R    v    /    c    F   s
-  C,NI                                                                                    0                      >
1~~~,z  2  0 a  0  0 1  0                           z       0                                                       mu~~~~~~~~0  U0 
K-  0 ~~~~~~A                1-                                                                0                                001  z0 
I- ,                             z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
C  0 4      0      0<X    b.       A            0                              0                               II
00  1-la    ~1-    00      0<                                          00                                              m         
I- m  m  &O  W    m~                         0                                                               K    
1- a    -A                                                                                                                 01
~J. -0     00x                                          0                                                                             0
'--OR COORDINATION                                                                                                                                    R A1






\;& se~~5                             Oy/o                fh 8"         /       P05      i    S                                                 96Y0                 930:                  9$e 
\<CPlofadD                           ~~U .                         S.                       A .
C    \9cn<o__._.    t  JAso4Pprunr j                                              . MEXICO
FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
sotYa ><<-\\X2 5-@>;nilDe tS v kS Si - '.4 .<nJes }\,MAIN HIGHWAY NETWORK
____________Highways constr cted or uder construction
financed by previous IRD loans
Other mac  highways
t>   \  GuoOyOOi  ,*4-t---                                                                                        5--- 4-.-s - - .-.   Railways
<  .    S r ,* =   ti?,>~~~ OJrCon     soI, I                ,O  FSRiHV      PL A T,          o 'uex 
-27I                                                                                                                                                                                                                    27-
PHIL ICED HANK FINANCED PROJECT
-7  'ghw,yv to bD impro,dc
,a 0o E s    gdd     X'9 Now highways to be constructed
U!OCf   sni                                                                                          too    200    500    400    500 K.
24"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
2 . 295 .  .;    \  \                   -                                                    6 L/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  L F  0            M EXI'CO
$.A Bio         ePic
Chipsll Is
_  / 3< 'L - Msqdofeno  94                   4                     osnca I t</t BD22
**_coo., A9V
AORdC  Sacred~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8       
aw               ~~~~~~colOn B-sot
0   di N~vdgd  Monenills  Tp sI                                          C       FI  C0                             EAN A.LAAONDRA
JANUARY 1970                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD-2822



