CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 752 YU
Administration and Financing
Agreement
(Bernardin Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
"EMONA", PROIZVODNJA, TRGOVINA,
TURIZEM, INZENIRING, LJUBLJANA
AND
LJUBLJANSKA BANKA, LJUBLJANA
DATED JUNE 18, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 752 YU
Administration and Financing
Agreement
(Bernardin Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
"EMONA", PROIZVODNJA, TRGOVINA,
TURIZEM, INZENIRING, LJUBLJANA
AND
LJUBLJANSKA BANKA, LJUBLJANA
DATED JUNE 18, 1971


﻿ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      June 18,   1971, between, on the one side,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and, on the other side, "EMONA", PROIZVODNJA,
TRGOVINA, TURIZEM, INZENIRING, LJUBLJANA (hereinafter called Emona)
and LJUBLJANSKA BANKA, LJUBLJANA (hereinafter called Ljubljanska Banka).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement) between the Bank and Hotel "Bernardin", Piran (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to assist the Borrower in financing the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement by making to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Emona and LJubljanska Banka agree to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Emona and the Borrower have agreed that the Project will be
carried out as a joint venture between them, and Ljubljanska Banka has agreed
to make available to Emona, and through Emona to the Borrower, certain funds
for the purpose of assisting Emona and the Borrower in financing the Project,
all as more fully described in the Recitals to the Loan Agreement and in the various
agreements referred to in such Recitals; and
WHEREAS Emona and Ljubljanska Banka, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Loan
Agreement (including the Recitals thereto) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. Emona accepts all the provisions of the Loan Agreement and
shall take all action required on its part to enable and cause the Borrower punctually
to perform all its obligations under the Loan Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, Emona hereby unconditionally guarantees, as
primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption of the Bonds
prior to their maturity, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and in the Bonds.
Section 2.03. (a) Emona shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered
to the Borrower.
(b)   For the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions, Emona
undertakes to designate, promptly upon the request of the Bank, in writing its
authorized representative.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. Ljubljanska Banka agrees that Emona shall make available to
the Borrower the proceeds of the Ljubljanska Banka Loan in accordance with the
provisions of the Joint Venture Agreement.
Section 3.02. Ljubljanska Banka agrees that until the principal amount of
the Loan and the Bonds, together with all accrued interest and other charges
thereon, shall have been paid or otherwise provided for in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank, Ljublanska Banka shall have no right to claim from the Borrower
repayment of, and interest and any other charges on, the amount of 82,500,000
Dinars out of the proceeds of the Ljubljanska Banka Loan which is to be made
available by Emona to the Borrower as equity capital in accordance with the
provisions of the Joint Venture Agreement.
Section 3.03. Emona and Ljubljanska Banka agree that, until such time as
the entire amount of 82,500,000 Dinars of equity capital shall have been fully
disbursed by Emona to the Borrower no disbursement shall be made to the
Borrower out of such portion of the Ljubljanska Banka Loan as is being relent
to the Borrower by Emona in accordance with the provisions of the Joint Venture
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds
available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the expenditures required
to carry out the Project, Emona and Ljubljanska Banka jointly and severally
undertake promptly to provide the Borrower, or to cause the Borrower to be
provided, with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures, all on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and to Ljubljanska Banka.


﻿5
Section 3.05. Emona and Ljubljanska Banka agree that, if at any time the
Borrower shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or if any action or
proceedings shall have been taken by the Borrower, Emona, Ljubljanska Banka
or others whereby any assets of the Borrower shall or may be distributed among
its creditors, then no payment on account of any loan made to the Borrower
for the purposes of the Project or on account of any contribution to the equity
capital of the Borrower shall be demanded or accepted by Emona or Ljubljanska
Banka from the Borrower until the principal amount of the Loan and the Bonds
then outstanding, together with all accrued interest and other charges thereon, shall
have been paid or otherwise provided for in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Emona and Ljubljanska Banka agree that the execution of the
Project by the Borrower, including the procurement of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed in all or in part out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and
appropriate provision therefor shall be made in or pursuant to the Joint Venture
Agreement, the Ljubljanska Banka Loan Agreement and any other agreement
entered into between the Borrower and Emona or Ljubljanska Banka for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Bank and Ljubljanska Banka agree that they will consult
and closely cooperate with each other in the administration of the Loan and of
the Ljubljanska Banka Loan, in the supervision of the Project and in the exercise
of such rights as they have reserved for themselves respectively in the Loan
Agreement and in the Ljubljanska Banka Loan Agreement over the following
matters:
(i)        organization of the Construction Office;
(ii)       selection of the Director of the Borrower and the Construction
Manager;
(iii)      selection  and  terms and  conditions of employment of
consultants;
(iv)       approval of plans, design, and master list of equir ent;
(v)        procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Ljubljanska Banka Loan; and
(vi)       disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan and the Ljubljanska
Banka Loan.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. The Bank and Emona and Ljubljanska Banka shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan and of the Ljubljanska Banka Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and Emona and Ljubljanska Banka
shall from time to time, at the request of any of said parties, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Borrower and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan
or of the Ljubljanska Banka Loan.
Section 5.02. The Bank and Emona and Ljubljanska Banka shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or of the Ljubljanska Banka
Loan or the performance by any of them of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. The obligations of Emona and Ljubljanska Baika under this
Agreement shall not be discharged except by performance and then only to the
extent of such performance. Such obligations shall not be subject to any prior
notice to, demand upon or action against the Borrower or the Guarantor or Emona
or Ljubljanska Banka or any other party or to any prior notice to or demand
upon the Borrower or the Guarantor or Emona or Ljubljanska Banka or any other
party with regard to any default by any of them and shall not be impaired by
any of the following: any extension of time, forbearance or concession given to
any of them; any assertion of, or failure to assert or delay in asserting, any right,
power or remedy against any of them; any modification or amplification of the
provisions of the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement, or any document
related to the Loan contemplated by the respective terms thereof; any failure of
the Borrower to comply with any requirement of any law, regulation or order
of the Guarantor or of any other country or of any political subdivision or agency
of the Guarantor or of any other country.
Section 6.03. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement, the Loan Agreement or
the Guarantee Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power
or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such
default, nor shall the action of such party in respect of any default, or any


﻿7
acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such
party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 6.04. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
For Emona:
"EMONA", proizvodnja, trgovina,
turizem, inieniring
Kersnikova 2
61000 Ljubljana, Yugoslavia
Cable address:
Emona
Ljubljana
For Ljubljanska Banka:
Ljublanska Banka
Trg revolucije S/C
61000 Ljubljana, Yugoslavia


﻿8
Cable address:
L-Banka
Ljubljana
Sect on 6.05. Emona and Ljubljanska Banka shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
the person or persons who will, on behalf of Emona or Ljubljanska Banka
respectively, take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by Emona or Ljubljanska Banka respectively pursuant to
any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.06. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President
"EMONA '", PROIZVODNJA, TRGOVINA, TURIZEM,
INZENIRING, LJUBLJANA
By /s/ Bogdan Crnobrnja
Authorized Representative
LJUBLJANSKA BANKA, LJUBLJANA
By /s/ BogdanCrnobrnja
Authorized Representative


