Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18767
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TF 024040 BH / CREDIT 2897 BOS
December 29, 1998
Human Development Sector
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 20, 1998)
Currency Unit       Konvertible Marka
IKM         USSO 59
USS    =   KMI I 68
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(not applicable, new currency introduced in 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH                -  Bosnia and Herzegovina
CY                -  Calendar Year
DC                -  Direct Contracting
Federation        -  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
EC                -  European Community
ECHO              -  European Community Humanitarian Organization
EU                -  European Union
FY                -  Fiscal Year of the World Bank
GPN               -  General Procurement Notice
IBD               -  International Book Development
ICB               -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA-ITF           -  International Development Association-Interim Trust Fund
IFOR/ SFOR        -  Intemational Peace Implementation Force/ Stabilization
Force (NATO)
IMG               -  International Management Group
IS                -  International Shopping
LIB               -  Limited International Bidding
MOE               -  Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports
NCB               -  National Competitive Bidding
NS                -  National Shopping
PIU               -  Project Implementation Unit
PCU               -  Project Coordination Unit
PMAU              -  Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit
RS                -  Republika Srpska
SNCB              -  Simplified National Competitive Bidding
SOE               -  Statement of Expenditures
TFBH              -  Trust Fund for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina
UNHCR                United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNDP              -  United Nations Development Program
UNICEF            -  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID             -  United States Agency for lnternational Development
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director: James Christopher Lovelace, ECSHD
Sector Leader: James A. Socknat
Responsible Staff: Zorica Lesic, Ilona Szemzo, Jim Stevens



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TF024040 BH / CREDIT 2897 BOS
Contents
Preface   .. ...... ......  .............................. .. ... ..................... ....... ... ....... .   i
Evaluation Summary .............. ...2.................. .... 2
Part 1. Statistical Tables ............................... 17
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..............................1... ...   ........................ 19
TABLE 2: RE1.ArED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..........  19
TABLE 3: PROECrT TIMETABLE .......... 20
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATiVE ESTIMA'IrEI) AND ACTuA .  i           20
TABLE 5: KEY INDICAORS  FOR PROJECT1IMPLEMENATION. .2()
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJEC T OPERTrioN.                                       21
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCUIDED IN PROJEC .                                                21
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTs .                                                              2 1
TABLE8B: PROJECT FINANCINA .22
TABIE 9: ECONOMIC COSTI S ANi) BENEFITS .22
TABLE 10: STATIUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS..                                               23
TABILE 1 1: COMPi.IANC1. WITI OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .23
TABLE 12: BANK REsotuRCES: STAFF INPus .24
TABI.E 13: BANK RESou(1RCIES: MISSIONS .24
Appendixes:
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
B. Map: IBRD 29463
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TF024040 BH / CREDIT 2897 BOS
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project, for which a trust fund (TF 024040-BH) in the amount of US$ 5.0 million
was approved on February 23, 1996 and made effective on June 6, 1996; and an IDA Credit
(2897 BOS) in the amount of SDR 3.5 million (equivalent to US$5.0 million) was approved on
February 23, 1996 and made effective on August 22, 1996.
The TF and Credit closed on the original closing date, September 30, 1998. Both were
fully disbursed, the last disbursement taking place on May 19, 1998. Cofinancing and parallel
financing for the project was provided by the European Commission, European Union/ECHO,
the Government of Greece, the Government of the United States, the Government of the
Netherlands, the Government of Sweden, the Soros Foundation, the Government of Germany,
the Government of Norway, UNDP and UNHCR.
The ICR was prepared by Ilona Szemzo, Zorica Lesic and James A. Stevens, Bosnia
Education Team, Human Development Unit, Europe and Central Asia Region and cleared by
Christiaan Poortman, Country Director, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during a Bank supervision mission in May 1998. The
ICR is based on the findings of missions which visited Bosnia and Herzegovina in July and
September 1998 and on information obtained from the project files. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by furnishing its own assessment of project performance. The draft ICR
has been shared with the borrower for comments, and these comments have been incorporated.
The emergency education reconstruction effort received a second inflow of resources on
August 28, 1997 with the approval of the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project.
This project was designed to supplement the financing shortfall that existed in the First
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project. The ICR for the second project, to be prepared in
1999, will complete the analysis of the education emergency reconstruction effort.






-2 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TF024040 BH / CREDIT 2897 BOS
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1. In response to October 1995 Dayton Peace Agreement, the first Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project was processed from identification to Board in less than four
months and was 90 percent disbursed in less than eight months following Board
presentation. Through the project, the Bank made a major contribution to reconstructing
the war torn education system in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and provided
a useful vehicle for initiating - through a small reconstruction pilot - similar work in the
Republika Srpska. The project was presented to the Board with a $20 million financing
gap, which was only partially filled.
Project Objectives
2. The principal project objectives, which were both relevant and realistic, were: (i) to
help restore the delivery of effective teaching and learning in primary education during
the 1996-1997 school year; (ii) to help build government capacity for planning and
implementing education programs at the Entity, canton and municipality levels; and (iii)
to facilitate communication and cooperation between the partners of the Federation, and,
eventually, between education authorities in the Federation and RS.
3. The project included the following components: (a) the refurbishment of about 72
primary schools, construction of about five replacement primary schools and provision of
furniture and equipment to classrooms in about 77 primary schools throughout the
Federation; (b) the provision of selected textbooks and supplementary readers for primary
and secondary schools and educational materials packages for primary schools in the
Federation; (c) strengthening of the capacity of the Federation MOE for the
implementation of the project; and (d) preparation of similar reconstruction activities on a
pilot basis, for primary education programs in Republika Srpska.
Implementation Experience and Results
4. The project met its reconstruction objectives ahead of schedule in terms of World
Bank Trust Fund and Credit-financed school reconstruction, significantly exceeding
originally planned physical works objectives. 28 primary schools were reconstructed with
World Bank funding in the Federation, and another 32 primary schools were
reconstructed with parallel financing. An additional three primary schools were
reconstructed with Bank funding as part of the small pilot program for RS. Despite this
successful and timely response on the part of the Bank and several other donors, the
overall program fell short of its overall reconstruction objectives in terms of physical



-3 -
works due to shortfalls in co-financing. In light of this cofinancing shortfall, the Bank
demonstrated rapid responsiveness by approving a Second Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project aimed at filling the financing gap in the first project.
5. The Bank also significantly exceeded original project targets in terms of rapidly
getting books and educational materials into otherwise empty classrooms. The Bank
funded 34 textbooks (12 were originally planned for Bank financing) and $700,000 in
educational materials for Bosnian primary schools. An additional 44 books were
provided with parallel financing. While accelerated procurement procedures were used
initially, the Federation Ministry of Education took advantage of technical assistance to
formulate and pilot new procurement techniques designed to shift the responsibility for
publishing textbooks to the private sector.
6. In the context of an evolving and politically charged institutional environment, the
project met most of its capacity building and reconciliation objectives. Federation and
RS PIU staff developed their capacity to implement reconstruction assistance projects,
and are now implementing assistance from a number of donors. In addition, project
implementation became a vehicle for increased communication and cooperation between
the Croat and Bosniac partners of the Federation, and has also led to increased
communication between the Federation and Republika Srpska PIU staff.
7. During project preparation and implementation, a number of.sector development
initiatives were started with Dutch Trust Fund financing including: (i) a teacher renewal
project which has resulted in policy recommendations presented at a June 1997
conference; (ii) an analysis of the secondary technical and vocational education sector
which was presented to a conference in April 1997; and (iii) development of a textbook
production and financing pilot which is being financed under both the first and second
projects. These initiatives have also contributed to cooperation within the Federation and
between the two entities.
Bank and Borrower Performance and Assessment of Outcome
8. Both Bank and Borrower performance during preparation, appraisal and supervision
was satisfactory. The project's simple objectives responded to the emergency needs on
the ground in Bosnia. Despite a complex and highly political institutional environment
and a compressed preparation and appraisal phase (February-May 1996), the
straightforward design of the project allowed a quick start-up and rapid implementation.
Because Bosnia was a new borrower in education and the project timeframe was
accelerated, the Bank provided an exceptional level of assistance to the two PIUs in terms
of staff located in the Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo, as well as in the Bank's
Human Development Hub in Budapest, Hungary. This support was ultimately key to
project success. Minor qualitative problems encountered by the PIU in term of physical
works were ultimately dealt with professionally and the overall quality of works was
high.
9. The project's overall outcome has been very satisfactory. The emergency project
surpassed its principal physical objectives and largely met its institution building and
reconciliation/ cooperation objectives, although much remains to be done in terms of



-4 -
increasing cooperation within the Federation and between the Federation and RS.
Federation and RS authorities expressed satisfaction with project results (see annexes Al
and A2).
Future Operation
10. As previously mentioned, donor financing for the Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project did not materialize to the degree expected. In order to prevent
further delays in implementation of the un-funded portions of the priority program and to
begin to address long term development issues in education, the Bank and the
Government agreed to allocate an additional $11.0 in IDA funding to a Second
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project (one third of which was allocated to
activities in RS) and to work together with other donors using grant financing to: (i)
strengthen institutions, (ii) improve the quality of textbooks and educational materials,
(iii) design new curricula, and (iv) rationalize the governance and finance of all levels of
education, including higher education. A third education project will likely focus on
helping to implement policy measures to be identified in the context of the education
governance and financing study currently being undertaken with PHRD grant funding.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVI:NA
EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TF024040 BH / CREDIT 2897 BOS
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/ Evaluation of Objectives
1.1  In early 1996, several months after signing of the Dayton Accord, the Federation
Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports designed its priority education
reconstruction program to address, over a 12-18 month time frame, only the most urgent
requirements for restoring minimal operations in the education sector. The World Bank
and other donors supported the design of this program by helping to identify school
selection criteria that would attract international funding. The objective that guided the
design of the emergency program was to improve the educational situation of as many
school children as possible with the very limited resources available.
1.2   The principal project objectives, which were both relevant and realistic, were: (i)
to help restore the delivery of effective teaching and learning in primary education during
the 1996-1997 school year; (ii) to help build government capacity for planning and
implementing education programs at the Entity, canton ancd municipality levels; and (iii)
to facilitate communication and cooperation between the partners of the Federation, and,
eventually, between education authorities in the Federation, and RS.
1.3   The project included the following components: (a) the refurbishment of about 72
primary schools, construction of about five replacement primary schools and provision of
furniture and equipment to classrooms in about 77 primary schools throughout the
Federation; (b) the provision of selected textbooks and supplementary readers for primary
and secondary schools and educational materials packages for primary schools in the
Federation; (c) strengthening of the capacity of the Federation MOE for the
implementation of the project; and (d) preparation of similar reconstruction activities on a
pilot basis for primary education programs in Republika Srpska.
1.4   The Bank's strategy was to support education reconstruction with a series of
investment projects to be implemented over several years in order to allow a flexible
response as political tensions decreased, more hard information became available and
Due to broad political concerns not directly related to education, initial project
preparation focused solely on the Federation. This last pilot component (d) was added to
the project at the request of Bank management just before Board presentation.



-6 -
governance and policy issues were resolved. The project was designed in a modular
fashion, aiming to provide a vehicle for other donors to channel their funding, while
offering flexibility to adapt the size of the project to available co-financing. It also
provided assistance to allow the Ministry of Education to begin to address some of the
key policy issues in the sector. Because less donor co-financing (US$ 12.3 million) was
ultimately mobilized than originally planned, the Bank decided, in consultation with the
Government and key education donors, to proceed immediately with a Second
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project (FY97), aimed largely at filling the
financing gap for the first project and supporting school reconstruction in Republika
Srpska. This commitment of the Bank to funding the 1997-1998 program proved
catalytic in encouraging other donors to commit to the Government's priority education
reconstruction program, first for the remaining US$7.5 million needed to rehabilitate
schools on the Federation's original priority list, and then to address the additional
requirements of the next group of 140 medium to severely damaged primary schools.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
2.1   The project met its reconstruction objectives in terms of World Bank Trust Fund
and Credit-financed school reconstruction, exceeding originally planned physical works
objectives. However, the overall program fell short of its reconstruction objectives in
terms of physical works due to shortfalls in co-financing. Approval by the Bank of a
follow up Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project at the end of the first
project's first year of implementation filled a large part of the financing gap for the first
project. Original project objectives for delivery of textbooks and other educational
materials to schools across the Bosnian portion of the Federation were significantly
exceeded under financing from the first project.
2.2   Civil Works Component: 28 war-damaged primary schools identified in the
Federation as part of the priority program were reconstructed with World Bank financing
under the first project, and another 32 schools were reconstructed through parallel
financing. An additional three primary schools were reconstructed with Bank funding in
the Republika Srpska as part of the small pilot reconstruction component for RS.
2.3  During the first year of successful project implementation, in the face of co-
financing shortfalls, the Government and the Bank agreed to finance reconstruction of
unfunded schools on the Federation's original priority list through a Second Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project. The Federation's priority reconstruction list was also
expanded during preparation of the second project on the basis of updated criteria which
gave priority to severely war damaged schools and schools in UNHCR priority areas for
the return of refugees. The project also provided funding for seven heavily damaged
primary schools in RS.
2.4 Since Board approval of the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
on August 28, 1997 a further 13 primary schools have been reconstructed from the First
EERP priority list -- seven with Bank financing under the second project, and six by other
donors. Therefore, to date, 78 schools have been reconstructed from the first priority list



- 7 -
from all sources2. From the second priority list of schools, 18 additional primary schools
have been reconstructed with financing from the Second EERP (14 in the Federation and
four in RS). The total number of primary schools rehabilitated with Bank financing
under both projects to date is 46. A further 15 schools will be completed by closing of
the Second EERP in June 1999.
2.5    18,500 children benefited from the repairs/reconstruction of primary schools
under the first project. At least 30% of refurbished schools contributed to increased
capacity in practical terms, in that these schools were not usable at all prior to benefiting
from this project's reconstruction support. In the remaining 70% of schools, incremental
capacity was increased by restoring unusable classrooms and conditions for learning were
significantly improved in all project-supported schools. The unit cost for reconstruction
was about US$230 per square meter on average. According to a study conducted by the
Resident Mission in Sarajevo, this unit cost for reconstruction is comparable to other
infrastructure rehabilitated in the Sarajevo canton area under other Bank-financed
projects during the same period. Unit costs had been expected during project appraisal to
be somewhat higher reflecting the wide coverage of the project and the relative
inaccessibility of many school sites.
2.6 Textbooks and Educational Materials Component: The project significantly
exceeded its original target of financing 12 textbooks. The Bank funded publication of 34
textbooks3 and delivery of over $700,000 in educational materials to Bosnian schools
under the first project. 44 other priority textbooks were provided with parallel financing.
Dutch Trust Fund financing was used to provide technical assistance to help the
Federation MOE begin to redefine its strategy for textbook production and financing.
Within this context, the MOE has formulated and piloted new procurement techniques
designed to shift the responsibility for publishing textbooks to the private sector.
Although the textbook pilot had been originally provided for under the Second EERP, the
decision was taken by the MOE with the agreement of the EBank to finance this pilot
textbook initiative from the first project. This decision allowed the MOE to provide 14
additional textbooks to schools during the 1997/1998 school year.
2.7   Capacity Building Initiatives: The project met most of its capacity building and
reconciliation objectives. The Federation Ministry of Education PIU developed its
capacity to implement reconstruction assistance projects. Federation PIU staff learned
important lessons from their performance during implementation of the first project. The
Federation PIU has applied lessons learned to improve its performance in the areas of
contract management, as well as supervision and evaluation of civil works construction,
during the implementation of the second project. Federatio:n PIU staff have also
improved their capacity to justify their assistance needs to donors in order to satisfy both
BiH and donor interests. Dialogue between all parties has improved as a consequence of
project implementation. During the past two years, the project has encouraged
2 The priority list for the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project was increased from 77 to 91 during the life
of the project, in order to incorporate additional priority schools which were being used for the housing of
refugees at the time of project appraisal.
3 Textbooks originally programmed for financing under the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project were
financed under the first project from a list of 84 titles on the Bosniac side of the Federation.



-8 -
communication and some degree of cooperation between the partners of the Federation,
and has also led to increased communication between Federation and Republika Srpska
PIU staff. Croat MOE staff, based in Mostar, communicate with their counterparts in
Sarajevo daily, and vice versa, a relationship that was not possible during project
preparation. RS PIU staff regularly travel for seminars and other meetings to Sarajevo.
This level of cooperation would also not have been possible at the time of project
preparation. During implementation of the first project, cooperation among the donors
active in education also improved considerably. The donor community is currently
working together to help improve targeting of investment decisions and to assist in
identifying areas which need further focus and support.
2.8  During project preparation and implementation, a number of sector development
initiatives were started with Dutch Trust Fund financing including: (i) a teacher renewal
project which has resulted in policy recommendations presented at a June 1997
conference; (ii) an analysis of the secondary technical and vocational education sector
which was presented to a conference in April 1997, and (iii) development of a textbook
production and financing pilot which is being financed under both the first and second
projects. These initiatives have also contributed to cooperation within the Federation and
between the two Entities.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
3.1   Project Appraisal and Organization. A Bank appraisal mission visited Bosnia
and Herzegovina in April 1996. The credit was negotiated in June 1996, presented to the
Board in July 1996 and signed the same month. The responsibility for project
implementation of the Federation portion of the project was entrusted to a PIU which was
attached to the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Funding was also included for the establishment of a small PIU
in the RS Ministry of Education to implement pilot school reconstruction projects in the
RS.
3.2   Implementation indicators and project costs are shown in Tables 5 and 8A,
respectively. Major factors affecting the achievement of the project objectives are
discussed below.
3.3   Project Management. Project management arrangements varied substantially
from those in the original project design. Soon after project start up, major changes in the
management of the civil works effort became necessary after it became clear that
EU/ECHO was unable to provide the support and financing that it had originally
committed to the project. The original project design had envisaged that the International
Management Group (IMG), through EU/ECHO parallel financing of about US$0.8
million, would be responsible, on behalf of the PIU, for the entire construction process
from assessment of damages through supervision of works. When IMG became unable
to fulfill these responsibilities due to a financing shortfall, a number of stop-gap measures
were undertaken. The Federation PIU had to assume responsibility for a series of



- 9 -
activities for which they were not adequately staffed, and for which they had not had
sufficient prior experience, as follows:
* The Federation PIU undertook direct responsibility for verification of school
priorities as proposed by the cantons. At the time, comnmunications were difficult and
there was limited freedom of movement within the Federation, making it difficult for
the PIU to verify whether or not schools met agreed selection criteria. As a result,
Bank staff resident in Sarajevo, together with IFOR engiineers, assisted in the task of
verifying selection criteria. This task was eventually performed adequately, at the
cost of a significant time commitment for Sarajevo-based Bank staff
* The Bank hired IMG through Bank-administered Dutch Trust Fund financing to
prepare specifications and cost estimates for school rehabilitation, as well as to
engage local architects to prepare site-specific designs.4
* Bid packages and bidding documents were prepared by the PIU, on the basis of the
above assessments, with the support of Bank staff, and two part-time engineers from
the Emergency Reconstruction Project's Project Coordination Unit (financed from
Dutch Trust Fund resources).
* The PIU took responsibility for the bidding process, including issuing requests for
bids, evaluating proposals, recommending bid awards and signing and supervising
contracts, as well as, eventually, project site supervision. Given the lack of freedom
of movement in 1996, the PIU's site supervision effort vvas heavily supplemented by
Bank staff and international consultants resident in Sarajevo, with the support of
SFOR/IFOR engineers.
3.4    This piecemeal approach to project management led to some initial delays, as well
as, in a few cases, inadequate quality works which required further follow up to correct.
In particular, a breakdown in timely site supervision - partially due to mobility problems
in the country -- contributed to some instances of low quality workmanship. The fact that
local supervision contractors were not adequately managed by the PIU, and that they
were not familiar with the initial damage assessments also contributed to confusion and
qualitative problems. All civil works quality problems were: eventually resolved to the
satisfaction of the PIU and the Bank and, ultimately, the physical objectives of the project
were met in an accelerated timeframe. Considering the loss of IMG's expected civil
works management expertise and the relative inexperience of the PIU, management
performance was ultimately satisfactory. Given the constraints present in Bosnia in
1996/97, it is a considerable achievement for the PIU to have managed the reconstruction
of 28 schools under the first EERP.
3.5 Procurement. The Bank introduced simplified bidding procedures at the start of
the reconstruction effort in Bosnia in order to expedite the procurement process, as well
as to re-introduce the principle of competitive bidding and contracting into the local
construction industry. This procedure generally worked well in large cities, where there
4UNDP funding was secured to cover the cost of assessments for the Second EERP.



- 10-
were numerous qualified contractors to compete for each job, and less well in more
dispersed rural areas.
3.6  Given the nature of civil works under this project -- consisting mainly of
rehabilitating existing small primary school facilities -- Simplified National Competitive
Bidding (SNCB) was used for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of up to US$1.0
million per contract. All school works contracts financed by the Bank under the project
were procured using SNCB procedures (no contracts exceeded US$1.0 million). Lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts were awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least
three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation to bid.5 The SNCB method
of civil works procurement gave the PIU a large measure of flexibility in terms of
drawing up short-lists of qualified contractors, expediting the procurement process, and
allowing for rapid initiation of civil works. However, the bidding process for rural
schools proved problematic, since there were often few interested contractors in the
vicinity and the Federation PIU was not able to motivate sufficient interest from larger
urban areas. In many instances, because of the dispersed nature of the works and difficult
access to the sites, contractors would bid without ever having visited the site.
3.7 During the Bank's periodic supervision of the civil works, the lack of contractor
familiarity with the sites became apparent. As a result of these findings, the Bank
introduced a mandatory pre-bid site visit for all prospective contractors to take place
together with local authorities and school personnel. The pre-bid visit was implemented
during the last round of civil works procurement under the First EERP, and for all civil
works procurement under the Second EERP. Another shortcoming identified during
supervision was that evaluation committees consisted exclusively of Federation-level
authorities, due partly to travel and communication constraints early in the
implementation period. In retrospect, it would have been more conducive to local
participation to have undertaken civil works evaluations by a committee which included
representatives from municipalities and/or cantons.
3.8 Under the Second EERP, the efficiency and professionalism with which the
procurement process is handled increased considerably with the introduction of
mandatory pre-qualification and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures for all
works costing more than US$0.2 million equivalent. Much of this improvement can be
attributed to the valuable experience gained by PIU staff during implementation of the
first project. Improved economic conditions as well as improved freedom of movement
have also influenced these outcomes. During the Second EERP, local authorities have
also been encouraged to participate much more actively in the selection of shools and in
the reconstruction process, thus ensuring their early ownership of the project, which will
be the key to the sustainability of the investments. School directors participate with the
assessment teams in the review of rehabilitation needs using agreed emergency
rehabilitation criteria at which point recommendations are made for community
contributions to cover items that do not qualify for emergency financing (gymnasiums,
teacher housing, etc.) or to improve the overall atmosphere of the school. During
construction, school directors have become productive participants in the works
In the original project design, IMG was to have undertaken the evaluation of bids. When funding for IMG did not
materialize, the PIU had to become responsible of this activity.



supervision process. The PIU has realized the advantages of this participatory approach,
a factor that has contributed to its improved performance during the Second EERP.
3.9  Supervision of works also suffered from the same initial deficiencies encountered
with works contractors. There were few qualified firms interested in supervising a small
number of rehabilitation contracts in remote areas, often with difficult access.
Supervision firms were contracted, but the quality of first line supervision was often low.
Furthermore, in the absence of comprehensive IMG support, the assessment of damages
was carried out by one firm or individual architects, while the supervision was contracted
to different firms. In retrospect, it was agreed by the PIU and the Bank that the
assessment/design and supervision of each school should have been contracted to a single
firm, which was how it was planned in the original project design using IMG support.
Consolidating these tasks under a single firm would have eliminated a large portion of the
confusion that led to initial problems with the quality of some works.
3.10 Contractor Performance. Contractor performance was varied. On average,
contractors performed well while under close supervision either by external assistance or
by the PIU. In some cases contractors performed very well, and in others cases there was
inadequate workmanship which required repeated corrections. The Sarajevo-based Bank
staff, together with IFOR engineers, supplemented the PIU's own supervision, and lead
the effort to impose high performance standards. After an initial learning period, the PIU
has taken over this responsibility and all 28 schools were finally completed with an
acceptable level of workmanship. The early arrival of very cold weather during the
winter of 1996 aggravated the situation, since most buildings lacked heating and walls
could not dry properly. All these lessons have been incorporated into the Second EERP
and no contracts for civil works are being started during the winter in those areas of the
country where weather conditions cause undue risk. Where necessary, civil works are
being bid during the winter with contract signature and initiation of implementation in
early spring.
3.11 Co-financing Donors. The project, which was submitted to the Board with a
financing gap of $20 million, provided a vehicle for parallel co-financing by a number of
donors. The early availability of the Dutch Trust Fund to establish the PIU was critical
for timely project start-up. In total, IDA resources of US$ 1I0 million equivalent were
able to leverage about US$ 16 million in donor co-financing. The Dutch Government
provided parallel financing of furniture and equipment for the 28 Bank-financed schools
of the first EERP, as well as for priority schools financed by USAID, UNDP and the
Bank from the Second EERP (US$ 2.7 million equivalent). The EU financed furniture
for other schools on the priority list, as well as a number of other schools outside the
priority list (US$ 2.5 million equivalent).
3.12 Social, Security and Political Factors. The schools to be rebuilt were often in
remote areas and in varying states of destruction. The lack of freedom of movement for
political reasons further hampered the ability of the PIU to adequately supervise the
reconstruction effort. It also limited potential contractors' interest in bidding for such
remote facilities.



- 12-
3.13 Project Design and Parameters. This project was designed to reach a maximum
number of beneficiaries in an 18 month period by limiting repairs to the most urgent
needs in the primary school system. This short term objective was balanced by the
Bank's decision to support education reconstruction with a series of investment projects,
with short implementation periods, over several years. The justification for this was to
allow a flexible response to sector reconstruction and development as political tensions
decreased, more hard information became available and governance and policy issues
were resolved. Despite problems with efficient project management, the planned 18-
month implementation period for this emergency project was realistic.
D. Project Sustainability
4.1 Overall project sustainability is likely. The emergency project approach, while not
expected to be replicated in BiH, has proven to be an effective mechanism for
implementing urgent school repairs in a cost-effective manner. Sustainability of the
investments financed under the project can be assessed on two levels: (a) the quality of
repair works and the likelihood of adequate maintenance; and (b) the effective
functioning of these capital investments in the education system. Following initial
qualitative problems related to inadequate supervision (see paragraph 3.9), the quality of
works carried out under the project has been assessed by Bank-contracted and
IFOR/SFOR supervisors to be satisfactory. The likelihood of adequate maintenance,
which was not assessed during appraisal due to the emergency nature of the project, is
related to economic recovery and to the re-establishment of adequately funded public
budgets. Appropriate budget instruments were introduced in 1998 for both Entities with
the support of the first IDA Financial Sector Adjustment Credit The adequacy of
financing for education will be addressed in the context of the education governance and
financing study currently being carried out under the Second Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project.
4.2 As with maintenance above, the likelihood that schools reconstructed under the
project will function effectively in the system depends on the capacity of governmental
authorities at Entity, Federation, cantonal, and municipality level to provide the overall
system with the necessary resources to attract and retain qualified teachers and to budget
for utilities and replenishment of educational materials, as well as school maintenance.
Follow up supervision has verified that all schools reconstructed under the project are
currently functioning at improved standards in terms of teaching staff and financial
support compared to the war period 1992-95. However, it is likely to take several years
(or longer in the case of rural or otherwise economically depressed areas) for fiscal
revenue generation to recover sufficiently to achieve pre-war levels of public education
funding. Issues such as under and over capacity utilization (related to refugee
resettlement issues), poorly trained teachers and inadequate operating budgets remain to
be addressed. It is also important to note that many qualitative and financing issues are
related as much to the need for a transition in the education system as they are to
recovery from the war. The need to put in place a macro-policy framework which will
support adequate educational financing across cantons will be supported under the
Second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit and will be the highest priority objective of
the education governance and financing study mentioned above.



- 13 -
E. Bank Performance
5.1  Bank performance during preparation, appraisal and supervision was satisfactory.
The straightforward design of the project, which reflected the emergency reconstruction
objectives, was sound. Despite a compressed preparation and appraisal phase (February-
May 1996), the straightforward design of the project allowed a quick start-up, and the
project achieved its reconstruction objectives ahead of schedule. The Bank's
involvement and its introduction of simplified national competitive bidding procedures,
as well as consistent technical and financial monitoring and auditing, has raised donor
confidence in locally-managed reconstruction projects and encouraged donor
participation. The Bank-established PIU is currently managing funding provided by
several other donors, although some funding has been channeled to reconstruction
programs which were outside the agreed priority school reconstruction program (see
Annex B I ). The management of project supervision througlh the social sectors Bank staff
located in the World Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo and in the Human Resources
Hub in Budapest served to increased the Bank's flexibility in a rapidly changing
environment and led to a cost-effective and responsive interaction with the client. Bank
staff committed only 24 staff weeks to supervising the project during its two year
implementation period, a low supervision coefficient by Regional as well as Bosnia
project supervision standards. This was partially due to the fact that the first and second
projects were supervised jointly during the second year. However, project supervision
also benefited by a nearly equal amount of consultant support financed under Dutch Trust
Funds.
F. Borrower Performance
6.1  Borrower performance was satisfactory throughout project preparation and
appraisal, and largely satisfactory during implementation. F'ederation Government
commitment was high. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established in the
Federation Ministry of Education (MOE) to oversee the implementation of all education
reconstruction efforts in the Federation. The PIU delivered financial and project progress
reports generally in a timely manner and compliance with credit covenants was
satisfactory.
6.2 The Federation PIU has built its competency and gained valuable experience over
the past two years, although coordination difficulties between the two Federation partners
continues to compromise efficiency of decision making to some extent. There is
reasonable coordination among activities being implemented by the MOE, but
coordination with reconstruction activities implemented by other levels of government
has been hampered by the PIU's lack of information and jurisdiction over these activities.
This partly reflects the Federation's uncertain role vis-a-vis canton administrations which
have primary authority for education governance in the Federation. However, as
discussed in paragraph 3.8, the PIU's relationship with local. level education authorities
has improved considerably during implementation of the Second EERP.



- 14 -
6.3 The RS Government had been under embargo almost until the time of Board
approval of the First EERP. The RS PIU did not become operational within the RS MOE
until June 1997. Since then, the RS PIU has also gained valuable experience and
competency in a short timeframe and is now functioning very efficiently under the
Second EERP.
G. Assessment of Outcome
7.1  The project's overall outcome has been satisfactory. This emergency project
surpassed its principal physical objectives and partially met its ambitious secondary
objectives aimed at institution building and reconciliation/cooperation among the
Entities. Project management and program evaluation skills were developed in both the
Federation and RS PIUs. However, cantons and municipalities were not as involved in
project implementation as was originally expected due to difficult communications
following the war and slow process of organizing local level authorities. A large degree
of centralization in decision making was, therefore, required to meet the project's
emergency timeframe. Significant progress was made on the project's reconciliation and
cooperation goals and the project was an important vehicle for communication and
cooperation among the partners of the Federation. Much remains to be done in this
regard. Federation and RS authorities expressed satisfaction with project results (see
annexes Al and A2).
H. Future Operation
8.1  As mentioned in paragraph 3.9, donor financing for the Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project did not materialize to the degree expected. In order to prevent
further delays in implementation of the un-funded portions of the priority program and to
begin to address long term development issues in education, the Bank and the
Government agreed to pursue a two-part strategy. First, US$11.0 million in additional
IDA funding was approved under a Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
designed to: a) partially cover the financing gap for the priority primary school
reconstruction program developed under the first project, b) initiate education
reconstruction in the Republika Srpska, c) develop new mechanisms for textbook
production and financing involving private publishers, and d) begin to address the
unresolved medium-term questions of education finance and administration. Second, the
Govemments of the two Entities, the Bank, and other major donors in the sector have
agreed to work together using grant financing to: (i) strengthen institutions, (ii) improve
the quality of textbooks and educational materials, (iii) design new curricula, and (iv)
rationalize the governance and finance of all levels of education, including higher
education. A third education project will likely focus on helping to implement policy
measures to be identified in the context of the education governance and financing study
currently being undertaken with PHRD grant funding.



- 15 -
I. Key Lessons Learned
9.1  The lessons learned from this post-conflict emergency education reconstruction
project are as follows:
*  emergency projects should be of low complexity, using a simple design as well as
simplified procurement procedures, as long as there is sufficient local Bank-staff
presence and/or international TA to support the PIU in the effective utilization of
these simplified procedures;
*  sector work should be undertaken and policy issues addressed during supervision of
emergency projects using grant financing where possible and through coordination
with other donors;
*  emergency projects should be designed in a modular nature, allowing for flexibility in
re-allocating resources during implementation as the emergency situation evolves;
*  qualified borrower personnel should be appointed full time to an implementation unit
during the project preparation period and be given complete autonomy in the
execution of the project;
*  continuous technical assistance for implementation should be built into emergency
projects from preparation through the first year of implementation;
*  the project unit of the borrower should enjoy a large degree of autonomy from its line
ministry in its day-to-day operations, including direct access to Special Accounts,
while being subject to independent external audits;
-  in the face of emergency situations, appointment of experienced Bank staff to field
offices is the best way to ensure timely client service necessary for early project start-
up, clearance of bidding documents, processing of disbursernent requests, donor
coordination, and adjustments of the project to rapidly changing political and security
circumstances;
*  streamlined procurement guidelines, using higher-than-standard thresholds, and
accelerated disbursement procedures are important ingredients for accelerated
implementation of emergency projects as long as there is sulficient local presence of
Bank staff to support their proper implementation;
*  donor confidence in autonomous project management units should be strengthened
through special procurement reviews as well as technical and financial audits;
*  close communication and coordination among donors and NGOs is important in the
context of avoiding duplication and addressing policy issues in a coordinated fashion;
*  reconstruction in areas more complex than primary education cannot proceed
effectively in the absence of progress in addressing key policy issues in the sector; for
example, moving ahead on reconstruction in secondary and higher education - where



- 16-
re-building the pre-war system would delay an effective transition in education --
should be more closely linked to decisions on the goals and reform programs in these
areas; and
* the need to work together on implementation issues can be an effective incentive for
cooperation among different national or ethnic communities.



- 17-
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



- 18-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives        Substantial        Partial        Negigble        Not aQ licable
Macro Policies                       Q               Q                E                   J
Sector Policies                      O               5                5                   J
Financial Objectives                  ]                               El 0]
Institutional Development           [               [3               [                  0
Physical Objectives                                  Q 0l 00
Poverty Reduction                    5              [J                E 
Gender Issues                       [               ol                                [l
Other Social Objectives              5               0                                  0
Environmental Objectives                             Q                El
Public Sector Management            E                0                                  []0
Private Sector Development           Q                                                 ( ]
Other (specify)                                                                          - l  E  x
B. Project Sustainabili               Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                       (I")                       (/)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactorv              Satisfactorv               Deficient
(1)                      ('1)                      (1)
Identification                      E                           ]                       E
Preparation Assistance                l                       X                         E
Appraisal                             l                       X                         E
Supervision                         E                        IX                         E
(continued)



-1 9-
Highly
D. Borrower Performance           Satisfactorv            Satisfactorv              Deficient
(1)                    (1)                      (1)
Preparation                       Q                                               [C
Implementation                    []                     (                         0
Covenant Compliance               [-                                               5 
Operation (if applicable)         []                     [                        [
Highly                                          Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          Satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose             Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
N/A
Following operations
Second Emergency        To supplement the               FY98            Project is in its first
Education               financing gap that                               year of
Reconstruction Credit  existed in the First                              implementation
N035-OBOS               EERP



- 20-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     2/96                2/96
Preparation                                    2/96                2/96
Appraisal                                      3/96                3/96
Negotiations                                  04/96                04/96
Board Presentation                            05/96                05/96
Signing                                       05/96                05/96
Effectiveness                                 06/96                06/96
Project Completion                            07/98                05/98
Credit Closing                                09/98                09/98
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands equivalent)
FY96        FY97          FY98
Appraisal estimate            1.0         6.75          2.25
Actual                        1.0         7.85          1.15
Actual as % of estimate       100          116          51
Date of final disbursement                            5/19/98
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                  Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR
Bank     Other donors    Bank      Other donors
1. Primary school rehabilitation    12 schools   79 schools   28 schools   37 schools
2. Books and educational       12 books     72 books     34 books     44 books
materials
3. Capacity Building and         $0.6         $0.3         $0.7
Project Implementation -
Federation
4. Project preparation and pilot    2-3 schools          3 schools
implementation - Republika
Srpska



- 21 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Due to the project's emergency objectives, no specific outcome indicators were
established.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Studies are included in para. 35, page 9 of TA
*  Support for policy development and capacity building was provided through Dutch
Grant financing administered through the World Bank and therefore not included in the
Project's costs.
*  Reform of Secondary and Adult Education - Study undertaken by the European
Training Foundation (ETF - Turin) and results presented at a conference in April 1997
* Textbook production and financing - Pilot project was developed by International
Book Development (IBD - U.K.) and successfully implemented in the Federation
during 1996/97. IBD will initiate a second pilot covering both Entities in November
1998 with financing from the Second EERP.
*  Teacher Training - The teacher renewal project undertaken by the University of
Pittsburgh was not implemented appropriately, although it's scope was enlarged with
additional financing from UNICEF and SOROS. Vague policy recommendations were
presented at a conference in June 1997. Further analysis and a concrete agenda for
action is needed.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                         Local  Foreign   Total      Local Foreign  Total
costs   costs              costs   costs
1. School reconstruction         n/a    n/a    21.4         n/a    n/a    16.6
2. Furniture and equipment       n/a    n/a       2.4        n/a    n/a     5.2
3. Books and educational         n/a    n/a       6.2        n/a    n/a     3.2
material
4. Technical assistance and      n/a    n/a       2.6        n/a    n/a
Training
5. Institutional Support         n/a    n/a       0.2       n/a    n/a      0.7
Total                            n/a    n/a    32.8          n/a    n/a    25.7



- 22 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                          Local  Foreign   Total     Local Foreign  Total
costs   costs              costs   costs
1. WB Trust Fund                 n/a    n/a    5.00                        5.00
1. IDA                           n/a    n/a    5.00         n/a    n/a    5.00
2. European Union/ECHO           n/a    n/a       2.3        n/a    n/a    4.60
3. Govt. of the Netherlands      n/a    n/a    0.45          n/a    n/a    3.20
4. Government of Greece          n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a    1.30
5. United States Government      n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a    1.00
6. European Commission           n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a    2.00
7. SIDA/SDR                      n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a    0.70
8. Soros Foundation              n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a    0.80
9. German Government             n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a.   0.30
10. UNHCR                        n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a    0.10
11. Norway Government            n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a    0.80
12. UNDP                         n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a    0.35
13. Islamic Fund                 n/a    n/a    0.00          n/a    n/a     0.6
14. Donors to be identified      n/a    n/a   20.05          n/a    n/a    7.05
Total                            n/a    n/a    32.8          n/a    n/a    32.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable for this emergency project. A least-cost approach has been followed.



- 23 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original   Revised            Description of Covenant            Comments
Agreement   Section      Type    Status  Fulfillment    Date
Date
Trust Fund  Schedule      5         C      Annual               The Federation shall establish and     PIU established and
4, para. I                                          thereafter maintain for purposes of Parts A, maintained
B and C. 1 of the Project a PCU under terms
of reference and with staffing and other
resources acceplable to the Association.
Credit     Section        5         C      Annual               The Federation shall establish and     PIU established and
3.02                                                thereafter maintain for purposes of Parts A,  maintained
B and C. I of the Project a PCU under terms
of reference and with staffing and other
resources acceptable to the Association.
Trust Fund  Article IV,    I       CD      06/30/97   06/30/98   The Borrower shall: (i) have the project  Due to the
Section                                             records and accounts, including those for    negligible level of
4.01 (a),                                           the Special Account, audited for each fiscal disbursements by
(b)                                                 year, by independent auditors acceptable to  end 1996, the
Trustee; and (ii) furnish to Trustee, as soon  Department agreed
as available, but in any case no later than    to provide a waiver
six (6) months after the end of the fiscal    for 1996.
year, the audit report.                End-i 997 report
furnished to WB
07/22/98
Credit     Article IV,     I       CD      06/30/97   06/30/98   The Borrower shall: (i) have the project  Due to the
Section                                             records and accounts, including those for    negligible level of
4.01 (a),                                           the Special Account, audited for each fiscal disbursements by
(b)                                                 year, by independent auditors acceptable to  end 1996, the
IDA, and (ii) furnish to IDA, as soon as    Department agreed
available, but in any case no later than six  to provide a waiver
(6) months after the end of the fiscal year,  for 1996.
the audit report.                      End-I 997 report
furnished to WB
07/22/98
1. = Accounts/audits                              8. = Indigenous people                Present Status:
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered   C = covenant complied with
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds           by categories 1-9                  CD = complied with after delay
4. = Counterpart funding                          11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary   CP = complied with partially
5. = Management aspects of the project/ exect. Agency  or other resource allocation     NC = not complied with
6. = Environmental covenants                      12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7. = Involuntary resettlement                        regulatory/institutional action
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.



- 24 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$ '000
Preparation to appraisal      11.3         37.0
Appraisal                      5.8         16.0
Negotiations through Board    15.0         41.5
approval
Supervision                  24.0          87.0
Partial Completion             2.0          8.0
Total                  58.1         189.5
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2     Tyes of
Stage of project cycle    Month!  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm.  Problems3
Year  Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through appraisal        02-03/96    3      15        EE,OF
Appraisal through Board    03-05/96    2    12          OF
approval
Supervision I              7/96      3      15        OF,PO             S            S           D
Supervision II            02/97      3      15        OF,PO             S            S         D,M
Supervision III           09/97      2      10        OF,PO             S            S         D,M
Partial Completion        07/98      2       5         OF,PO            S            S           D
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
EE=Education Economist            S=Satisfactory                     D=Donor Cofmancing
OF=Operations Officer                                                M=Project Management
PO=Project Officer



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FIRST EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND GRANT/TF 024040/ AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
/2897 BOS/ AGREEMENTS
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PREPARED BY THE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNITS /PIUs - EDUCATION/
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, SCIENCE, CULTURE AND SPORTS
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
AND
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
November 1998



This Inplementation Completion Report (Borrower's Contribution), prepared by the PIUs of
the Federal MOE and the Republika Srpska MOE for the Emergency Education
Reconstction Project, will do the following:
(i)   assess the project objectives, design, implementation, and  operational
experience;
(ii)   evaluate  the  borrower's own performance  during  the  evolution  and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be relevant in the future;
(iii)  evaluate the performance of the Bank and any co-financiers during the evolution
and implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship
among the borrower, the Bank, and co-financiers, with special emphasis on?
lessons learned
Project Objectives'. The primary objective of the Emergency Education Reconstruction
Project (EERP or Project) is to help restore classroom conditions which permit effective
teaching and learning - particularly, in primary schooling. A secondary objective is to help
build government implementation capacity to plan and deliver education programs at the State,
entity, canton, and municipality levels.
Project Description2.  The Project would promote these objectives by supporting the
components described below:
a. Primary School Rehabilitation (estimated cost US$ 25.3 million).    This
component would finance (i) the refurbishment and refurbishing of about 70 large
primary schools which can be made secure and weatherproof with relatively minor
repairs and which have been selected by cantonal authorities as priorities for
rehabilitation, and (ii) the construction of about five primary schools in areas with no
alternative school capacity. The schools to be refurbished and reconstructed under
the project have been identified and agreed by the Government and the Bank, subject
to verification of specific rehabilitation needs by the Intemational Management
Group (IMG).
b. Books and Educational Materials (estimated cost US$6.1 million).  This
component would finance the printing (by private printing houses) and distribution
of selected textbooks and readers to most primary schools in the Federation. This
would comprise about 85 textbook titles and reader titles chosen through competitive
selection by the Federation Ministry of Education (MOE). These titles have already
been selected. (A total of eight supplementary reader titles but no text titles have
been selected in common by both Federation partners.) The component would also
finance the provision of a basic package of educational materials and equipment,
costing about US$130 per class, to primary schools throughout the Federation. The
Government and the Bank have agreed to the lists of textbooks, readers, and
educational equipment to be provided under the project.
'World Bank Document - Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IDA ... For An Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project, April 22, 1996. Page 5
2 Same as above. Page 5 and 6



c. Capacity Building and Project Implementation (estimated cost US$ 0.9 million).
This component would finance technical assistance, training, office equipment and
vehicles to strengthen capacity of the Federation Ministry of Education, and
implementation partners at the cantonal level in order to: (i) ensure that the proposed
Project is implemented effectively, (ii) equip the Ministry to begin planning key
sector reforms, and (iii) improve its overall management and technical capacity.
d. Project Preparation and Pilot Implementation in the Republika Srpska
(estimated cost US$0.5 million). This component would finance: (i) consultant
services to help assess education reconstruction needs in the Republika Srpska, and
(ii) consultant services, civil works, and materials to prepare and pilot education
reconstruction actions - including the provision of textbooks, readers, and
educational materials - for primary schools in Republika Srpska.
Financing Plan Summary:        WB Trust Fund Grant    US$ 5.0 Million
IDA Credit            US$ 5.0 Million
ECHO                  US$ 2.3 Million
Dutch Government      US$ 0.5 Million
Other Donors          US$ 20.0 Million
Total                  US$ 32.8 Million



PART A
FEDERATION of BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ASSESSMENT and EVALUATION
Background. War damage to school infrastructure was extensive. The Federation Ministry of
Energy and Industry had prepared a general assessment of total school reconstruction needs at
each level of education in the Federation, net of furniture and equipment needs. The assessment
showed that over 50 percent of both primary and secondary schools had sustained damage
during the war and that over 30 percent of all schools had sustained significant damage (more
than 15 percent needing refurbishment). It was estimated that about 50 percent of schools did
not have basic desks and chairs for teachers and students.
This first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project focused primarily on putting as many
students and teachers as possible back into a classroom learning environment as quickly as
possible. Initially, this was accomplished by repairing lightly damaged school buildings; the
project then moved on to the more heavily damaged buildings. Additionally, since a high
percentage of books and other teaching aids were destroyed during the war, the PIU purchased a
minimum necessary quantity of books and supplies to support learning in the classroom.
Given the situation that Bosnia and Herzegovina was just emerging from war, which meant
political challenges and constraints on everything from qualified personnel to telephone
connections to building material supplies to fuel; the objectives of the project were
accomplished relatively well. However, improvements to the design and implementation of the
project can be made and those will be discussed in the body of the report.
PRIMARY SCHOOL REHABILITATION
Suitability of the Project's Objectives
Given the fact that the primary objective of the project was to "help restore classroom conditions
which permit effective teaching and learning" as quickly as possible, this first Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project was very effective.
The World Bank, through Grants and Credits, invested over 11 Million DEM in 28 schools in
the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project (EERP) in the Federation (See attached
list and amount per school). When included with other donors, by the end of 1996 more than 36
million DEM had been invested in 241 schools throughout the Federation. Through the end of
1997, this amount had increased to more than 81 million DEM invested in 494 schools.
Investment amounts per school from different donors varied from under 10,000 DEM per school
to over 1,000,000 DEM for several schools.
Repairs included everything from completely rebuilding schools to weatherizing schools (roofs
and windows) to repairing heating, electrical and water systems.  The end result is that
thousands of students are back in schools that they either couldn't use prior to this project or
which they could have used, but only under very difficult environments.
Beyond the repairs to the physical infrastructure, the investment in books and other learning
materials was a vital and equally important part of the project objective. Classroom repair is
only as valuable as what can be done in the classroom after it is repaired. The books and other
learning materials were used and appreciated by teachers as well as students.



Adequacy of the Project Design and Components
For the civil works component of the project it was originally envisioned that the Ministry of
Education through a Project Coordination Unit would engage International Management Group
(IMG), supported on a grant basis by ECHO, to supervise implementation. In carrying out this
task, IMG would work closely with Ministry of Education (MOE) counterpart staff at the
Federation, Canton, and Municipality levels to: (a) verify school rehabilitation priorities, as
proposed by the cantons, (b) prepare specifications and cost estimates for school rehabilitation,
(c) engage local architectural firms to prepare site specific designs for schools selected for
rehabilitation and reconstruction, (d) formulate bid packages for school rehabilitation and
reconstruction, and prepare bidding documents, (e) evaluate bids, recommend bid awards, and
negotiate contracts, and (f) supervise implementation of school rehabilitation.
Although this was a good design and makes sense from an operational perspective, in the end
ECHO did not, as originally planned, give a $2.3 million grant to IMG to perform the above-
mentioned tasks. This meant that the Ministry of Education (MOE) had to form a Project
Implementation Unit, which would be responsible for implementing the above mentioned tasks.
Therefore, the World Bank has made great efforts to find at least minimum necessary funds for
the works of preparation of assessments and designs, which are specified above, by (b) and (c)
items. At the very beginning of the preparing assessments by IMG,, it is necessary to emphasize
the role of Mr. Jim Stevens, who made it possible providing 1dG with funds for this. PIU
Education has addressed to the Coordination Board for additional funds of 0,16 Mill. DM, which
were necessary for the financing the supervision of school rehabilitation and reconstruction, and
which were allocated from the Dutch Trust Fund.
Under this implementation arrangement, it was expected that the bulk of school refurbishing
could be carried out within six months from project effectiveness, while remaining within
expected unit cost and construction quality standards. Unfortunately, this idea was never been
realized. Also, later we realized that IMG has no official authorization on performing this kind
of work as listed above under (a) to (f). That is why PIU had to execute all the works except (b)
and (c), but even there had to contribute a lot.
In the future it would be better if funds for project design could be directly given to the PIU and
then the PIU would be responsible for procuring consulting services which would combine
hiring single firms which would be responsible for assessment, design and supervision.
With regard to the Books and Educational Materials component of the project the design was
straightforward - identify needs and manage the procurement process using World Bank
procedures. Although there was a plan for UNICEF to assist the PIU with this task, this did not
occur and the PIU managed this task mostly on its own with no major problems. The reason for
that was UNICEF has offered educational materials from their warehouse UNIPAC, but the
schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina needed another format of notebooks for tests and special
school administration.
Finally, Bank support for Capacity Building and Project Implementation was key because the
Bank is the only donor organization which financed this component. Many other donors
expected implementation help from the MOE and the PHU, but did not provide any financial
support for this activity.  Without the Bank support for this activity, a lot of school
reconstruction financed by other donors could not have been realized.
One of the shortcomings of the project design in general was the lack of coordination among the
various donors, NGOs, and the Ministry of Education. The inclusion in the project design of a



database component would have been very helpful in the overall understanding and management
of funds being invested in the education sector. At the end of the war and when this project was
first being conceived, the Federation MOE did not have the capacity to gather information on
the state of the school infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in many cases neither did
the cantons. A database component with the requisite equipment and personnel would have
been very helpful for the project. There is still no central repository of information that gives
the exact status on all of the schools in the Federation
Overall Quality and Speed of Project Implementation
Civil Works. As mentioned above, the original plan to have IMG manage the implementation
of the project did not occur because of a lack of funding from ECHO. As a result the MOE had
to find staff who had the skills to manage construction works and who could be trained to work
within the World Bank procurement guidelines. This took time and as a result the project was
implemented more slowly than expected. For the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction
Project (EERP-II), which is currently ongoing, the PIU staff know their work and have learned
from problems encountered in the first project; the PIU expects to implement the second project
in a more timely manner.
At the time when the MOE was setting up the PIU, there was a lot of pressure to implement this
project quickly and this led to delays and quality problems.
1 . Some of the construction design specifications were incomplete which caused delays due to
change orders and annexes to original construction contracts. IMG, which was responsible
for preparing the design specifications and paid by the World Bank, is aware of this and will
work to make the documentation more complete for the second EERP.
2. The PIU was not adequately staffed and did not have operational procedures in place to
review works in progress for which payments were requested. In some cases the contractors
were paid for work which was either incomplete or poorly done. For EERP-II the payment
procedures have been altered as follows: the PIU project engineer must visit the site for at
least the first and last payments and physically inspect the works for quality and
completeness. Additionally, if the project engineer has determined that a contractor is not
doing good work, the engineer will visit the school to approve each progress payment.
3. Based on the limited funding available under the first project and given the amount of work
that needed to be done, the PIU, in some cases decided to do a minimal amount of work on
some schools (roof, windows, doors, but no fa,ade or painting). This led to the appearance
of quality problems because a lot of works did not appear to be finished, when in fact the
contractor did the works for which he was contracted. For EERP-II the PIU is planning to
focus on a smaller number of schools and do the complete works for reconstruction.
Additionally, during EERP-II the PIU will go back to 5 schools from this first EERP and
complete central heating works, toilets, and some fa,ade work.
As originally planned, IMG provided assessments (specifications and cost estimates) for the
physical reconstruction of schools, but funding was provided by the World Bank using the
Dutch Trust Fund instead of by ECHO. IMG performed this task by hiring specialized local
firms and individuals to perform this task. Oftentimes, IMG used a network of professionals
that were not part of one firm to do an assessment and specifications. The problem with this is
that it did not provide a seamless product and there were omissions and conflicts in the design
that were not always apparent until construction started. Also, during implementation, if a
question arose and needed the input of one of the members of the design team, sometimes it took
time to track this person down and arrange for the person to attend a meeting; this lead to delays
and extra costs for the works. Given that the war had just ended and it was difficult to find one



firm that had the in house capabilities to provide a complete design - civil works, electrical
works, water works, etc. - this was probably the best way to go. However, in the future it will
be better to have a single firm do the complete assessment and specifications and also supervise
the works. This experience PIU has used for better implementation of projects financed by the
Islamic Bank for Development B&H and Saudi Fund for Development.
Finally, the firms/individuals that did the assessments were not the same firms responsible for
supervising the implementation of works and this caused a lot of confusion. Ideally, in the
future one firm will be responsible for assessing a project, preparing the construction
specifications, and doing the supervision after the PIU has managed the procurement process.
Textbooks. In summary only the Bosniak part of the Federation wanted and needed textbooks
to be financed under this project; neither the Bosnian Croats nor the Bosnian Serbs wanted to
participate in the purchase of textbooks in the first project. The reason for this is that the
Bosnian Croats receive textbooks and pedagogical help from the Croatian Government and the
Bosnian Serbs receive textbooks and pedagogical help from the Serbian/Yugoslav Government.
Originally, the World Bank and the MOE thought that it might be possible to use private
printing houses to print textbooks and other educational materials for this project.
Unfortunately, during the first project there were no private printing houses in Bosnia capable of
printing textbooks or other materials; the only publishers capable of printing textbooks were the
same state owned companies which printed textbooks prior to the war. The overall process for
privatization has been slow and it is doubtful that all textbooks will be printed by private printers
in the second project either.
Besides the normal textbook purchase process, a Pilot Textbookc project in cooperation with
International Book Development was implemented using funds from this project. It was
originally planned that this pilot project would be implemented using funds from EERP-II. The
reason that this was moved to the first project was that signing of the EERP-II was delayed from
spring of 1997 to fall of 1997. Additionally, the MOE had finished its cycle of construction
works and instead of initiating another cycle of works with the remaining money, it was decided
and agreed to by the Bank, that the remaining funds of this project could be used to finance the
Pilot textbook project.
The difference between the way the first group of textbooks was purchased and the way
textbooks were purchased under the Pilot project is that the MOE chose and edited the first
group of textbooks and then purchased only printing services. With the Pilot project the printing
houses / editors were responsible for contacting an author and working with the author to create
a textbook acceptable to the MOE. On the due date all the publishing houses participating in the
bidding process submitted their product to the MOE which then evaluated the textbooks and
publishers according to World Bank procurement guidelines.
The procurement process used by the Pilot project is similar to the one used prior to the war and
is more efficient for the MOE. The reason the MOE became involved in choosing and editing
textbooks was because there was no one else who could organize or perform this funiction during
the war or just after the war ended.
Summary Information and Administration
Generally speaking, donors, including the World Bank, have invested approximately 84 million
DM into physical reconstruction of schools in the Federation through the end of 1997 (per IMG



database).
Prior to starting this project, the PIU proposed and World Bank agreed to a priority list of 91
schools for reconstruction. Of these 91 schools 28 schools were repaired using US$7,245,343
from World Bank Trust Funds and IDA credits. Additionally, various other donors including
the Islamic Development Bank (IDB), the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD), ECHO, USAID,
Greece, Malaysia, ODA (British Government), UNDP, UNHCR, NPA (Norway), and SIDA
(Sweden) provided funds to rebuild schools. Most of these donors worked independently of the
PIU, but the PIU did have fairly close relations with the IDB, SFD, and the Malaysian
Government.
Of the remaining 63 schools not financed by the World Bank, other donors financed repairs on
37 of the schools. 18 schools have not yet been financed either due to a lack of funds or due to
the fact that the schools were not damaged from the war. The World Bank through the Second
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project (EERP-II) will finance 8 remaining schools.
In order to quickly implement this project the PIU used local shopping procurement procedures
to purchase construction services. The reasons for using this procurement method are (i) at the
end of the war there were only a few contractors in the varied geographic areas that were
capable of performing construction works; (ii) local shopping was a quicker procurement
method than NCB because the PIU was able to identify local contractors capable of performing
the works and invite them to bid for works without having to advertise and follow other lengthy
NCB procurement procedures.
One potential problem associated with the local shopping method of procurement is that the PIU
may not have obtained the lowest price for the works due to the limited number of bidders. But
the trade off for possibly paying a higher price was that the works could be implemented more
quickly. For future projects when quick implementation is less of an issue, the PIU will look
more closely at NCB in order to have more competitive prices for works.
One other issue which caused some problems between the World Bank and the PIU was the fact
that other donors only provided funds for direct project costs and not for PIU administrative
costs. The World Bank often stated that the PIU staff should only work on World Bank financed
projects, yet that was unrealistic given the other donor's requirements. Also, we were led to
understand that the World Bank provided the administrative costs for the PIU to implement any
project financed by any other donor. PIU worked according to the directions of the Coordinating
Board, and practically working for nothing for other donors which funds were welcome for
filling the financial gap in the Financing Plan of the First EERP made by the WB (see Financing
Plan Summary).
Books and Educational Materials. Prior to starting this project, the Cantonal Pedagogical
Institutes (CPI) were consulted about their needs for textbooks for both primary and secondary
schools students. This survey showed that about 450 titles (-8,000,000 books) were needed
with an approximate value of 25 to 30 million DM. However only 78 titles (-1,400,000 books)
were purchased. The value of the purchased books was 3,400,000 DM. The World Bank
financed 1,500,000 DM of the total.
With regard to procurement the PIU used two methods. The first method involved the PIU
contacting all known prewar publishing houses in Sarajevo, Tuzla, Zenica and Bihac Cantons
and asking them to submit quotes for the specified bid package. The second method (Pilot
project with IBD) involved the PIU publishing an advertisement in the newspaper announcing



that the PIU had a bid package and interested bidders could come to the PIU and obtain the
documents.
Both of these methods worked well and there were no complaints from any of the bidders. A
representative from International Book Development (IBD) has suggested that in the future the
PIU may want to procure books using NCB as a way to lower costs. The PIU has no objection
to this but also feels that it will be very difficult to get lower prices from international suppliers
than from local suppliers.
Distribution was the responsibility of the supplier and the C:PI. The suppliers sent books and
other educational materials directly to the CPI and the CPI distributed the items to the individual
schools. When the PIU and representative from IBD visited the CPI, they found that the correct
quantities had been delivered and distributed to the schools. Because this worked well, the same
method will be used in future procurements.
With regard to overall needs for textbooks and other teaching supplied, the PIU will meet some
of these needs through the EERP-II. The PIU will also create a database of specific school
needs and will publish a small document for distribution to donors. It is hoped that if donors
know specific needs and costs, they may choose to finance specifically defined textbook and
material purchases.
Capacity Building and Project Implementation. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
established to manage this EERP. Within the PIU departments for finance and administration,
civil works, textbooks, and school equipment were established and the appropriate personnel
hired. One comment on personnel is that they possess the basic specific skills for their duties,
but most of them lack computer and English language skills; this has caused some difficulties,
but nothing serious.
Finance. The personnel in finance were trained in World Bank procedures regarding payments,
withdrawal applications, statements of expenses and other items necessary to manage funds
received from the World Bank. Generally, the finance department had no problems with the
transfer of credit funds from the World Bank to the Special Account. One minor issue is the
internal government procedures for signing withdrawal applications - they are very cumbersome
and this has slowed down payments to contractors.
Initially under the Trust Fund Special Account there was a problem because the amount allowed
to be transferred to the Special Account was not enough given the quickness with which projects
started and advanced payments needed to be made.
Additionally, the local bank did not have the cash on hand to make good on funds transferred
into the bank from the Special Account. Initially it took 16 to 20 days for payments to be
effected and now it is 2 to 4 days. This took care of itself as the economy started to function and
became more liquid. At one point our local account in SAB Bank was frozen because the bank
was not liquid. The PIU thought that SAB was a secure bank because the World Bank was
using it for their business accounts too. The PIU has switched banks.
Reallocation of Project Funds. As a result of redefining priorities, the PIU and Minister of
Education (in agreement with the World Bank) reallocated fund credit 3,150.000 SDR to better
meet the needs of the education sector. The table below shows the changes.



CATEGORIES                    Original SDR   Approved                  Final SDR
reallocation
Civil Works                           970000            2152100         2138074.51
Goods                                1900000             724900           752293.60
Consult Service & Train               100000              54500            55874.21
Incrment Op Costs                      30000             218500          203756.67
Unallocated                           150000
TOTAL                                3150000            3150000          3149998.99
Comment:
PIU Education has received 3149998.99 SDR and according to the regulations has verified the following amount of
money through applications of SOE in USD. However, in one variation the sums did not much in the categories in
SOE, SDR with the applied resources (through SOE more categories were verified then the money that was
received) and that was a result of putting the Trust Funds together with the IDA Credit, and because the categories
of SOE were administrated in the whole amount and were shown in dollars. The payments in SDR were reduced
because of the withdrawals of the initial deposit and SOE stayed in the full amount.
Furniture. The World Bank did not finance any furniture under the EERP, but it did work with
the Dutch Government and GEMCO (a Dutch purchasing organization), so that the Dutch would
furnish schools repaired with World Bank funds. The PIU identified what was needed with
regard for furniture and other equipment and supplied this information to GEMCO. Prior to
procurement, the PIU furniture specialist and GEMCO visited schools to verify what was
needed. The PIU also provided information to the European Commission, which provided
2,000,000 ECU for furniture for schools in general. Besides the direct furniture grants from the
Dutch and the EC, Slovenia, Malaysia, Greece and the IDB provided furniture to schools that
they reconstructed. Estonia provided computers for 4 schools.
The only problem with furniture was with the quality of student desks provided by the Dutch.
The desks are very light duty and inappropriate for the conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The PIU and the Dutch have agreed to modify the specifications on any furniture that the Dutch
will provide under the EERP-II.
Summary. All in all the personnel of the PIU have learned how to prepare and manage projects
financed by the World Bank. They understand procurement of both works and goods and the
finance people know how to request funds from Washington to the Special Account and how to
pay service providers and suppliers and accurately account for the funds spent. There are the
times, especially at the, beginning of the project, when it would have been helpful to have a full
time consultant familiar with World Bank procedures to walk us through everything.
It should be noted that PIU did not work on any of the following items under the capacity
building part of the loan: (i) education governance and finance, (ii) reform of secondary and
adult education, including associated teacher education at the tertiary level, and (iii) teacher
training; as mentioned in the Technical Annex. All this has been taken over by the Federal
Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports in collaboration with the WB Resident
Mission.
Key Lessons learned:
1) In the financial part of the Project the system of withdrawing and payment, as well as the
statement of expenses according to the World Bank procedure was accepted. For us, it was
something totally new.



2) The Pilot project for textbooks procurement made the transfer of textbook publishing from
the FMOE towards the publishing houses, as well as suggested how we can provide the
transition from the centralized to the marketing planning publishing policy.
NOTE:
1. During the implementation period many misunderstandings were due to the World Bank
B&H Mission officers were not sufficiently familiar with the BH Government laws and
regulations, especially regarding the ways of transfer money and social charges of salaries.
At the beginning we did not know that the WB finances the elementary education only. We
thought at this time, coming out of the war, with all the schools destroyed and no teachers
available, we would cover all educational levels, but it turned out otherwise. It caused some
delay, but later we adopted it.
2. Our experience with pre-qualification process is very bad. Procedures of the World Bank
should be in accordance with BH laws for enterprises as well as other existing regulations
concerning this field. However, there are the firms, which satisfy the conditions and offer too
lower price, so that they can get a job, but they could not capable to perform the work
qualitatively and on time. We mean that it is necessary to input regulations (even some new one)
which could be capable to estimate the really ability of potential firms in the pre-qualification
and biding processes. (Excluding any subjective point of evaluation or selection)



LIST OF SCHOOLS
Canton            School                  Municipality                Donor
Canton 1.
WB 1              "Jezero"                Bihac                       World Bank*
WB 2              "Orasac"                Bihac                       USAID
WB 3              "Djuro Pucar"           Bosanska Krupa              World Bank
WB 4              "Bos.Petrovac"          Bosanski Petrovac           ECHO
WB 5              "12 septembar"          Buzim                       World Bank
WB 6              "Ostrozac"              Cazin                       ECHO
WB 7              "Velagici"              Kljuc                       ODA/IFORJECHO
WB 8              "Hasan Kikic"           Sanski Most                 World Bank
WB 9              "Fajtovci"              Sanski Most                 ECHO
WB 10             "Todorovo"              Velika Kladusa              ECHO
Canton 2.
WB 11             "Odzak"                 Odzak                       World Bank
WB 12             "Tolisa"                Orasje                      World Bank
WB 13             "Bok"                   Orasje
WB 14             "Ostra Luka"            Orasje                      World Bank*
WB 15             "Domaljevac"            Bosanski Sarnac             World Bank
WB 16             "Grebnice"              Bosanski Samac
Canton 3.
WB 17             "Banovici"              Banovici                    Norway Gov.
WB 18             "Brka"                  Breko                       UNHCR
WB 19             "Satorovici"            Brcko                       ECHO
WB 20             "Ratkovici"             Celic
WB 21             "Klokotnica"            Doboj Istok                 ECHO
WB 22             "Miricina"              Gracanica                   ECHO
WB 23             "S.B. Basagic"          Gradaeac                    ECHO
WB 24             "Kanberi"               Gradacac                    ECHO
WB 25             "Hasan Kikic"           Gradacac                    ECHO
WB 26             "Kalesiia"              Kalesija                    World Bank
WB 27             "Stupari"               Kladanj
WB 28             "Hajrudin Mesic"        Teocak                      IDB
WB 29             "Nezuk"                 Sapna                       IGASA
Canton 4.
WB 30             "A. Ilhamija"           Kakanj                      World Bank
WB 31             "Saud Brkic"            Maglaj                      Norway Gov.
WB 32             "S. Bolic Bolo"         Olovo                       World Bank
WB 33             "Husein Hodzic"         Tesanj                      SIDA/Norway Gov.
WB 34             "Mejdan"                Vares                       Norway Gov.
WB 35             ""Ribnica"             Zavidovici                   Caritas
WB 36             "Hajdarevici"          Zavidovici                   World Bank
WB 37             "Prva osnovna"          Zavidovici                  World Bank
WB 38             "Perin han"             Zenica                      Norway Gov./ECHO
WB 39             "Zepce"                 Zepce                       World Bank
WB 40             "Sivsa"                 Usora                       World Bank*
Canton 5.
WB 41             "H.Turealo - Brzi"      Gorazde                     World Bank
WB 42             "Prva osnovna"          Gorazde                     World Bank
WB 43             "Druga osnovna"         Gorazde                     ECHO
Canton 6.
WB 44             "Prva osnovna"          Bugojno                     World Bank



WB 45             "Oborci"                Donji Vakuf                  ECHO
WB 46             "Donji Vakuf'           Donji Vakuf                  Norway Gov.
WB 47             "Pajic Polje"           Gornji Vakuf                 World Bank*
WB 48             "Gomji Vakuf'           Gomji Vakuf                  Malaysia
WB 49             "Vinac"                 Jajce                        EC/EU
WB 50             "Karaula"               Travnik                      EC/EU
WB 51             "Mehurici"              Travnik                      DRC
WB 52             "Preocica"              Stari Vitez                  World Bank
WB 53             "Uskoplje"              G. Vakuf                     World Bank
WB 54             "Trnovaca"              G. Vakuf                     World Bank *
WB 55             "Busovaca"              Busovaca                     World Bank*
WB 56             "Kaonik"                Busovaca
WB 57             "Vitez"                 Vitez                        ODA
WB 58             "Dubravice"             Vitez                        ODA
WB 59             "Kiseljak"              Kiseljak
WB 60             "Lepenica"              Kiseljak
WB 61             "Gromiljak"             Kiseijak
WB 62             "Nova Bila"             Travnik                      World Bank
WB 63             "Novi Travnik"          Novi Travnik                 World Bank
WB 64             "Stojkovici"            Novi Travnik                 Swiss Gov.
Canton 7.
WB 65        =    "Ostrozac"              Jablanica                    ECHO
WB 66             "Glavaticevo"           Konjic                       World Bank
WB 67             "Podvelezje"            Mostar                       IDB
WB 68             "Scipe"                 Prozor                       World Bank
WB 69             "Capljina"              Capljina                     World Bank
WB 70             "Domanovici"            Capljina
WB 71             "Zvirovici"             Capljina
WB 72             "Tasovcici"             Capljina
WB 73             "Rara"                  RamalProzor                  Japan Gov.
WB 74             "Ripci"                 Rama/Prozor                 World Bank
WB 75             "Gracac"                Rama/Prozor                  UNDP
WB 76             "Ravno"                 Ravno                        World Bank*
WB 77             "Stolac"                Stolac                       World Bank
WB 78             "Cmici"                 Stolac                       UNDP
Canton 9.         _
WB 79             "Vladislav Skaric"      Sarajevo                     Greek Gov.
WB 80             "Hilmi Ef. Saric"       Sarajevo                     USAID
WB 81             "27 juli"               Sarajevo                     USAID
WB 82             "B. Selmanovic"         Sarajevo                     World Bank
WB 83             "Sara Polje"            Sarajevo                     Greek Gov.
WB 84             "Grbavica I"            Sarajevo                     USAID
WB 85             "Stup"                  Sarajevo                     ECHO
WB 91             "S.S.Kranjcevic"        Sarajevo                     World Bank
Canton 10.
WB 86             "Bos. Grahovo"          Bos. Grahovo
WB 87             "Ivan Merc"             Drvar                        World Bank
WB 88             "Glarnoc"               Glamoc                      World Bank
WB 89             "Celebici"              Livno            _
WB 90             "Rujani"                Livno                       ECHO
World Bank * schools financed under the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project



SCHOOLS not included in the project - repaired by other donors and
implemented through the PIU
No          School         Municipality        Canton  |          Donor
1. III.Primary school     Sanski Most           I                 IDB
2. Territorial school     Zavidovici             4                IDB
3. "Turbe"                Travnik                6                IDB
4. "Izet Sabic"           Vogosca                9                IDB
5. "Avdo Smajlovic"       Sarajevo              9                 IDB
6. "M. Lokvancic"         Ilidza                 9                IDB
7. "Cava"                 Buzim                  1                SFD
8. "Rados"                Buzim                  1                SFD
9.   II. Primary school    Cazin                 1                SFD
10. "Stupari"              Kladanj               3                 SFD
11. "Mak Dizdar"           Gorazde               5                 SFD
12.    Focanska Jabuka     Foca                  5                 SFD
13. "Kruzanj"              Mostar                7                 SFD
14.    Territorial school    Kalinovik           7                 SFD
15. "Velesicki Heroji"    ISaraevo               9                 SFD
16. "Gata - Ilidza"        Bihac            1                     UNDP
18. "Dzakule"              Gracanica        j                     UNDP
19. "Enver Colakovic"      Breza                 4                UNDP
20.    II Primary school    Gracanica             3               Jordan
21. "Camil Sijaric"        Sarajevo               9              Malaysia
22. "Saburina"             Saraievo                              Malaysia
23. "M. Cazim Catic"       Saaevo           1    9                Egypt
24. "S. Basagic"           Sarajevo               9              Slovenia
FURNITURE and EQUIPMENT
Donor            |          Amount             |   Number of schools
Dutch Gov./GEMCO                         NGL  4,200,000                         28
European Commission                      ECU   2,000,000             950 classrooms
Children of Slovenia                     DEM      509,667
Children of Malaysia                     DEM    372,000
Malaysia Gov.                            DEM      136,610
Estonia Gov.                             DEM      100,000                     N/A.
Greek Gov.                               DEM       80,000                         2
Islamic Development Bank                 DEM    242,027                           5



TEXTBOOKS and MATERIALS
School
Administration                                  Quantities           Cost DEM
Package I          Forms and Certificates   237,000                    15,900
Package 2       Registers for Primary and    12,108                    86,095
Secondary Schools
Package 3   Forms, Certificates, Booklets for  360,000                130,820
Primary and Secondary Schools
School Material
Package 4                  Europe Map         2,000
World Map         2,000                   219,800
Globe         1,000
Package 5                 Geometry Set        1,000                   172,700
Water Colors      120,000
Package 6           BiH Map Format BI         6,000
BiH Map Format B3      120,000
Periodic Table of Elements     1500                   188,600
Measurements         1500
Wall Speller - Latinica     1500
Wall Speller - Cirilica    1500
Package 7               Drawing Block       120,000
Assignment Book - Math     120,000                   172,800
Assignment Book - Lang.    120,000
Vocabulary Notebook     120,000
Textbooks
Package 8           Math 1                   35,000
Math 2                   35,000
Physics 2                  6,000
Practice I                 6,000
Practice II                6,000
Biology III                6,000
Biology IV                  6,000
Biology STS                 6,000
Total                                   106,000                   196,334
Package 9           Math3                    35,000
Math 7                   35,000
Math III                  6,000)
Latin I, II               10,000
Total                                    86,000                   209,350
Package 60 Math4                              35,000
Biology 5                 35,000
Biology 6                 35,000
Total                                   105,000                   171,978
Package 11         Biology 8                  35,000
Chemistry 7                35,000
Chemistry II                6,000
Total                                    76,000                   123,700
Package 12             Home Economics 6               35,000
.    Home Economics 8               35,000
Total                                    70,000,                    93,800



Pilot Project
Package 1          Math 5                   35,000
Math 6                  35,000
Math 8                  35,000
Total                                  105,000                    284,550
Package 2         Biology 7                 35,000
Nature Kits               35,000
Total                                    70,000                   108,100
Package 3          Math 1                    12,000
Math 2                   12,000
Math 4                   12,000
Total                                   36,000                    114,480
Package 4         Physics 1                  12,000
Physics 3                 12,000
Physics 4                 12,000
Total                                   36,000                     96,840
Package 5        Chemistry 1                 10,000
Chemistry 3                10,000
Chemistry 4                10,000
Total                                   30,000                    104,100
r                  ~~~~~~~Author's Fees  L208,200
World Bank
_  TOTAL:                    2,698,147
Other Donors
Duch TF           Pre-Printing of Manuscripts for        49                    125,745
Textbooks
Textbooks
Qatar                Reading 8                 18,000
History 8                 18,000
Geography 6                18,000
Reading III               12,000
Total                                   66,000                    443,424
Qatar                Reading 3                 18,000
History III               12,000
Total                                   30,000                     46,200
Qatar                 History 5                18,000
Geography 5                18,000
Geography III              12,000
Reading II                12,000
Total                                   60,000                    102,576
Qatar                History 7                 18,000
Geography 8                18,000
Geography 1                12,000
Reading IV                 12,000
Total                                   60,000                    114,000
Qatar                Reading 6                 18,000
Reading 7                 18,000
Geography 1                12,000
Reading 1                 12,000



Total                                    60,000                     148,920
Qatar              Music Culture 4               18,000
History 1                 12,000
Music Culture 1,2,3            18,000
History II                12,000
Total                                    60,000                    120,540
Qatar      |          History 6                  18,000
_______ _ I Geography IV             12,000
Total                                    30,000                     65,340
Qatar                Reading 4                   18,000
Reading 5                  18,000
Music Culture 11             12,000
History IV                 12,000
Total                                                               88,800
Qatar                Geography                   12,000
Informatics 7,8              18,000
Total                                    30,000                     69,200
Qatar              Informatics 1,11              12,000
Total                                     12,000                    36,000
SOROS         English Language 4, 5, 6, 7, 8     90,000                    141,500
SOROS            Supplementary Readers           88,700                    548,360
Total                                                              689,860
German Gov.           German Language               35,000                    124,800
4, 5, 6, 7, 8
Tunis Gov.           BiH Culture and History       90,000                    325,000
Other Donors                   2,500,405
TOTAL:
World Bank and             GRAIND
Other Donors              TOTAL                    5,198,552



PART B
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
ASSESSMENT and EVALUATION
Background. There are 187 central primary schools in the Republika Srpska and each one of
them has at least one branch school. During the war many of these schools were damaged
especially in northern Republika Srpska between Brcko and Novi Grad. This includes the cities
of Doboj, Modrica, Drventa, Mrkonjic Grad, and many others. Damage was caused either by
direct war action, or by refugees who used the schools as temporary homes, or by the army who
used the schools as barracks and command centers. Additionally, a lot of school supplies and
equipment no longer function because of a lack of maintenance or deterioration through normal
use.
This pilot project was proposed as part of the EERP in order to put some funding into the RS
and to prepare the PIU for a time when the political situation would allow the World Bank and
other international donors to invest larger amounts in the RS.
PRIMARY SCHOOL REHABILITATION
Suitability of the Project's Objectives
For various reasons the Republika Srpska did not participate to the same degree as the
Federation in the Emergency Education Reconstruction Project, but instead it benefited from a
Project Preparation and Pilot Implementation Program. The pilot project allowed the RS MOE
to establish a PIU with the necessary personnel and to go through and learn the processes for the
procurement of construction services following World Bank procurement guidelines. Given the
political and administrative situation in the RS at the time, the decision to implement this Pilot
project was a good one and the objective was correct.
The ultimate aim of the Pilot project was to prepare the RS MOE for the second EERP, which
would benefit the RS education sector far more broadly than the first project. As an objective,
this was extremely important.
Please note that under the Pilot project no school materials such as textbooks or study aids were
purchased. The main reason for this is that civil works were a higher priority and the lack of
funds would have made it very difficult to buy materials that would have had a material impact
on the primary school education system.
Adequacy of the Project Design and Components
Due to the more limited contact between the World Bank and the RS during the design phase of
this project, no specific implementation plan was developed for the Pilot project as was done for
the project in the Federation. However, based on what the project is said to finance - consultant
services for assessment for preparation of civil works and consequently the procurement of civil
works, it does include the necessary components.



Although the scope of the project as prepared and submitted to the World Bank included
textbooks and other classrooms educational materials, these were not implemented in the Pilot
project. It was a good idea to include these, but there was not enough money in the project.
Additionally, the Pilot project included funds to set up the PIIJ. This included funds for salaries,
a vehicle, computers and operating expenses. This was a vital component because without it,
the PIU would not have been able to carry out its mission. Overall the project was simple and
the design was adequate.
Overall Quality and Speed of Project Implementation
For a variety of reasons, the Pilot project was not implemented as quickly as it could have been.
One of the main reasons for this was the political situation in the RS and the generally poor
relations between the RS and the international community. This slowed down visits by
international consultants and the resulting works that needed to be completed with the help of
the intn'l consultants. This was further complicated by the changes in the RS government
structure and the appointment of new ministers of education from time to time. Changes in the
ministry meant changes in education philosophy and priorities and relations with the
international community.
With regard to local resources, there was a lack of experienced firms that could provide local
consultant services and construction services. Time was needed to identify firms to provide the
necessary services. As with the Federation, probably, there was a lack of construction materials
and firms did not have the resources to carry inventory, so this also slowed down the process.
In the end it was decided to contract the Urban Institute to provide consultant services for
project preparation.  The reasons for this is that the Urban Institute was the organization
responsible for assessing the education needs at the end of the war and they had already done
some project preparation assessments and designs. This was a direct contract.
The Urban Institute, as a firm established on 1948, employees all necessary staff needed for all
design phases-civil, electrical, mechanical and water works. During the implementation, all staff
was available at any time and that facilitated the process a lot.
At the time, no one completely knew the World Bank procurement rules, criteria and scope of
works and services to be provided, and that caused some minor problems and
misunderstandings.
Project Preparation and Pilot Implementation in the Republika Srpska. It should be noted
that until January of 1998 the PIU was operating in a difficult environment and it was very
difficult to implement the project. Since the end of the war, there have been at least 4 Ministers
of Education, although now it appears that the current minister will stay in the post for a while.
Additionally, the former PIU director was difficult to work with internally, and he was finally
replaced in March of 1998. As a result of these changes, the PIU now operates more efficiently
and effectively and can do some longer range planning.
Initially this project was staffed by only the director who worked with a World Bank consultant
from October 1996 till June of 1997. During this time period the task was to identify schools
which met the project criteria, hire consultants to prepare assessments and designs for tendering
and to hire staff for the PIU.
Civil Works. When the director of the PIU started the work of obtaining consulting services
and identifying potential schools for reconstruction, it went to t:he Urban Institute for help. The
Urban Institute had been responsible for compiling information on the status of schools in the



RS during and after the war. It also had skilled staff that was able to provide consulting services
including the preparation of specifications for schools and then to supervise the works after they
were contracted.
After the schools were selected and specifications prepared, the PIU and the Bank decided to
contract the Urban Institute to provide also supervision services. In the case of the Pilot Project
and because speed was important and the Institute was already involved in the project, the
Institute's services were sole sourced
Since this was a pilot project and a learning experience, there were no problems that were
important. Everyone learned about World Bank procedures and at the same time implemented
them. The PIU staff continue to learn and to accept input from the World Bank staff and
consultants and expect no major problems in the future.
The PIU is now capable of implementing a larger scale project and in fact is in the process of
doing so. Procedures used for the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project are
built on the experiences learned in the Pilot Project.
Following is a list of the schools reconstructed in the Pilot Project and their associated costs, and
a complete priority list of schools referring to the EERP-1.
Location - Municipality / City   School Name        Cost DEM       Contract Sign
Derventa / Derventa              O.S. 19 April           328,905.04      13 Feb 1997
Derventa / Agici                 O.S. 19 April            162,130.95    13 Feb 1997
Srpska Sanski Most / Donja Kozica   O.S. Josip Pancic      16,960.29    13 Feb 1997
TOTAL          507,996.28
School/Town                       Donor       Contr. amount (DEM)
OS "19.april", Derventa                            WB                    328.905,04
OS "19.april", Agici, Derventa                     WB                     162.130,95
OS "Kostres", Kostres, Derventa                 SANDNES                   150.000,00
OS "Bosanski Luzani", Bosanski Luzani, Derventa      /                            /
OS "Desanka Maksimovic", Ostra Luka, S.S.Most      ODA                            ?
OS "Branko Radicevic", Usorci, S. S.Most            /                             /
OS "JosifPancic", Donja Kozica, S.S.Most         WB,ODA                   52.280,00
OS "Petar Kocic", Sitnica, Ribnik              WB/EERP-II            (est.)336.000,00
OS "Nikola Mackic", Gornja Previja, Ribnik      EC,UNDP                   105.450,00
OS "Desanka Maksimovic", Gornji Ribnik, Ribnik  ODA,UNOPS                333.300,00
Textbooks, Readers and Educational Materials. In the end it was decided that the PIU would
not procure any textbooks, readers or other educational materials. The reasons for this are
twofold: (1) there was very little money put into the pilot project to begin with (US$500,000),
and (2) with all of the changes going on in the Ministry of Education, it was easier to keep the
project simple and focus on items on which everyone could agree.
Finance. The PIU used a part time accountant for the first three withdrawals from the Credit
Account and this person was also responsible for the first Statement of Expenses (SOE) and
replenishment. The work done by this person is the basis for an ongoing minor problem. Due to
a misunderstanding all initial funds were immediately transferred from the Special Account to
the PIU's local bank account and all payments made from there. But when the first SOE was
submitted to the Bank for replenishment, it used various exchange rates on the days that
expenses were paid from the local account and not the fixed exchange rate for the day that the
funds were transferred from the Special Account. This is still being worked on with the World
Bank. The lesson learned here is to keep funds in the Special Account until payments are ready
to be made and this is now standard procedure for the PIU.



One other problem that has been encountered by the PIU is the slow process for replenishment
of funds. The slowness is more an internal problem on the level of the State of Bosnia and
Herzegovina than on the level between the World Bank and the State, although this is sometimes
time consuming too. The PIU hopes that the Bank can help to make this process faster.
Additionally, the PIU is working to resolve this by submitting smaller SOEs and withdrawal
applications over shorter periods of time rather than waiting until the Special Account is
depleted. However, if a large number of payments have to be made at once, the process is still
too slow.
Administration. Currently, the PIU is staffed by a director who is responsible for the overall
operation of the PIU and approving all expenses; a project manager for civil works who is
responsible for managing the preparation of tender documents, their review, supervision of the
bidding process and examination of bids, and supervision and final acceptance of works; a
finance manager responsible for all bookkeeping, financial reporting, payments, and withdrawal
applications, and lawyer/translator who is responsible for document review, translations, bid
evaluation, and general office affairs.
This team works very well together and with the World Bank offices in Banja Luka and in
Sarajevo. The new director has played an important role in this by letting people do their jobs
and not interfering unnecessarily in day to day operations.
Finally, the PIU and Ministry of Education are very satisfied with their relationship with the
World Bank and look forward to continuing their work in the same way.



