Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6856-BIH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
APRIL 22, 1996
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 15, 1996)
Currency Unit: Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinars (BHD)
US$1.00   =  BHD149.25
US$0.67   =  BHDl00.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH           Bosnia and Herzegovina
CY           Calendar Year
DC           Direct Contracting
Federation    Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC           European Community
ECHO         European Community Humanitarian Organization
FY           Fiscal Year of the World Bank
GPN          General Procurement Notice
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Asociation
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IMG          International Management Group
IS           International Shopping
LIB          Limited International Bidding
MOE          Ministry of Education, Science, Culture, and Sports
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NS           National Shopping
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
RS           Republika Srpska
SNCB         Simplified National Competitive Bidding
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TA           Technical Assistance
TFBH         Trust Fund for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
UNIPAC       UNICEF Supply Distribution Warehouse Procurement and
Assembly Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



- i -
BOSNIA AND BERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page No.
A.  BACKGROUND   .............................................                                                       I
Units of Government and their Roles in Education   .......................  I
Pre-war Education System    ......................................   1
Wartime Impact on the Education System   .............................  2
B. BANK RESPONSE AND RECOVERY STRATEGY FOR EDUCATION ... ......  3
Emergency Reconstruction Program    ...............................    3
IBRD/IDA  Assistance Strategy ...................................   5
C.  DETAILED  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION   ................................  6
Primary School Reconstruction   ...................................  7
Books and Educational Materials   ..................................  8
Project Implementation and Capacity Building    .........................  9
Project Preparation &  Pilot Implementation in the Republika Srpska ............ 10
Project Costs and Financing Plan  .................................   10
Environmental Aspects   .......................................   11
D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION  ...                                                 .......... It
Project Organization and Implementation   ............................   11
Procurement  ..............................................   14
Advertising   ............................................   14
Goods ................................................   14
Recurrent Costs ..........................................   15
Works ................................................  15
Services    ................................... ............                                          15
Procurement Implementation Capacity  ............................   15
Procurement Review  Committee   ........                      .......................   16
Prior and Post Bank Review  of Procurement Documents  ................   16
Disbursements  ...........................................                                                18
Project Audits, Accounting and  Reporting  ...........................   19
Supervision   Plan    ...........................................                                         19
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions which visited Bosnia-Herzegovina in February and March 1996.
The missions comprised Messrs./Ms. Michael Mertaugh (Mission Leader, Principal Education Economist, ECI/2HR),
James Stevens (Operations Officer, ECl/2HR Hub Budapest), and Ilona Szemzo (Social Sectors Operations Officer,
Bosnia Resident Mission). Ms. Edith Santos (Staff Assistant, ECI/2HR) provided assistance with text processing. Task
Manager: Michael Mertaugh (ECI/2HR); Division Chief: Ralph W. Harbison (ECI/2HR); Acting Director: Christine
Wallich (EC2DR); Vice President for Bosnia and Herzegovina: Kemal Dervi, (MNAVP); Peer Reviewers: Emmanuel
Jimenez (PRDPH) and Robert Fuderich (UNICEF, Sarajevo).



- ii -
Page No.
TABLES
Table 1:  Donor Financing Requirements for Priority Needs
in the Education Sector  ..................................  5
Table 2:  Financing Plan by Component .............................   11
Table 3:  Financing Plan by Expenditure Category   ......................   11
Table 4:  Procurement Arrangements ............... .  ..............   17
Table 5:  Disbursement Categories and Schedule   ...                        ....   ...............    18
APPENDICES
Appendix  1:  Estimated Costs   ..................                                         ..............   20
Appendix 2:  Project Implementation  Schedule  .........................  23
Appendix 3:  Project Procurement Plan and General Procurement Notice   ...                                   .....   28
Appendix 4:  Summary  of Education Statistics  .........................   30
Appendix 5:  Summary of War Damages in Education  ....................   31
MAP  IBRD-27946 .............................................. 32



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. Background
Units of Government and their Roles in Education
1.             Education in former Yugoslavia was highly decentralized. Municipalities were
responsible for primary education; regions were responsible for secondary education; republics
were responsible for higher education. The functions of republic and regional governments were
reduced further during the war, as budgets disappeared and as staff were mobilized for the war
effort. The 1994 Federation Constitution creates eight regional cantons, and assigns to them
responsibility for all education functions. The Federation explicitly permits the cantons to
delegate education functions upward to the Federation or downward to municipalities, and
requires that educational functions be delegated downward to municipalities which are
predominately of an ethnic group other than the majority ethnic group in the canton. Because
only two cantons are yet operational, a number of educational functions will need to be delegated
to other levels of government.!'
2.             In the medium term, it is desirable that careful thought be given to the educational
responsibilities which are appropriate to the various levels of government, and the financial
resources which need to go with them. For efficiency reasons in a country as small as Bosnia-
Herzegovina (BH), such functions as curriculum development, textbook development, and quality
control should be administered at the State level. But for practical reasons, political reconciliation
between the two State entities -- and even between the two Federation partners -- will need to
progress further before this desired integration can occur fully. Once they are fully established,
the cantons may play an important role in functions such as pedagogical inspection, in-service
teacher training, and introduction of new teaching methods. Day-to-day management of primary
schools and most secondary schools should probably be the responsibility of municipalities, but
local financial resources will need to be supplemented with resources from the entity or State level
in order to maintain quality standards in a situation of sizeable local and regional disparities in
income.
Pre-war education system
3.             Prior to the start of hostilities, Bosnia-Herzegovina had a well-developed
education system, financed by public expenditures accounting for about 6 percent of GDP.
Virtually all children completed the eight-year primary cycle; most also completed the four-year
secondary cycle. As elsewhere in the region, most secondary education was offered in the form
of narrowly specialized vocational education programs, oriented to the needs of industry. Higher
education was offered through four universities, comprising 46 institutes and faculties. Higher
education enrollments emphasized science and engineering. There were no fees for higher
education for Yugoslav nationals; foreign students paid tuition. In primary, secondary, and
higher education, students were responsible for purchasing their own textbooks.
1/     The Project is expected to help create implementation capacity at the canton level by implementing the two
largest components at the regional level. Where they exist -- notably, in Tuzla and Bihac -- the cantons will perform
this role. Where cantons have not yet been formally established, these components will be implemented with informal
regional associations of municipalities. The institutional strengthening which is to be provided to these bodies under the
Project is expected to help transform them into functional cantons.



- 2 -
Wartime Impact on the Education Systemz'
4.             Physical Plant. All aspects of education have been severely disrupted by the
war. Well over 50 percent of school buildings in Bosnia-Herzegovina have been seriously
damaged or destroyed, or taken over for use by the army or to house people displaced by the
war. In the remaining space available, students and teachers face classrooms with no glass in the
windows and no heat; classes are even held in rooms missing walls and doors As schools were
destroyed or unsafe, each school as an administrative entity was responsible for finding alternative
space in the neighborhood for classes - often, in apartments, basements, shelters, garages, or
abandoned offices. These "war schools" still exist in most front-line areas, and wherever schools
were destroyed. To accommodate students displaced by destroyed schools and the influx of
displaced persons, most schools function in two or three shifts of 3 1/2 hours, and offer
instruction in a very abbreviated class year -- 18 weeks at most, instead of the 38 weeks called for
in the curriculum.
5.             Teaching Staff. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture, and Sports of the
Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina (MOE) has tried to keep the system functioning under
impossible circumstances. It is operating on a skeleton staff, and there has been no regular
budget for education since the 1991-92 academic year. Teachers are working essentially without
compensation in the Bosniac-majority areas, while teachers in the Croat-majority areas have
received partial salaries throughout the conflict period. An undetermined number of qualified
teachers have been lost through migration, mobilization into the military, and war casualties.
Many teachers currently in the classroom are wartime volunteers, and lack pedagogic training.
The MOE has collected data on available teachers and qualifications, revealing severe shortages of
teachers in languages, math and science.
6.             Textbooks and Educational Materials. The availability of textbooks and
educational materials varies between the Croat-majority and Bosniac-majority areas of the
Federation. Croat majority areas have been relatively well-supplied with textbooks provided by
the Croatian Government, and are also relatively well-provisioned with basic educational materials
provided by parents, communities and the schools themselves. In the Bosniac areas, many
schools lack even the most basic educational materials needed for effective learning such as
notebooks, pens and chalk. The Federation Pedagogic Institute published and distributed 56 new
textbook titles in 1994 in history, culture, reading and Bosnian language with the support of
various donors. Textbooks in natural sciences and math for both primary and secondary
education have not been made available to schools in over four years, which represents the
average life of a textbook printed in the former Yugoslavia. School libraries have also been
destroyed and depleted during the war, and students in Bosniac-majority areas lack basic reading
material. It is unlikely, in the short term, that the two partners in the Federation will agree to use
commnon textbooks, but common usage of basic readers and educational materials should be
possible.
7.             Although the Federation Ministry of Education is in the process of updating its list
of approved textbooks for the Bosniac-majority areas, it has not yet taken a broader, long term
view of its policy for textbook production and financing, which is closely related to needed
reforms in curriculum structure and content. A preliminary analysis of the current situation is
that there are too many textbooks required for too many specialized subjects. There is almost
certainly scope to reduce the number of books required and to improve their pedagogic content
and coverage. At the same time, the Federation will need to develop a medium-term policy for
2/     Detailed information on the wartime impact on the education system in the Republika Srpska was not available
at the time of appraisal. Information on war-related reconstruction needs is being prepared by RS officials for the
Bank.



- 3 -
producing textbooks using private-sector publishers and printers, and for financing textbooks
through some form of cost recovery. The few textbooks that are available have been provided
free of charge to schools, which lend books to students during the school year. Textbooks were
provided to students free of charge in the former Yugoslavia. Given the current situation in
Bosniac-majority schools and the limited ability of parents to cover costs in the short term, getting
basic textbooks, readers and educational materials into classrooms, particularly in the natural
sciences and math, is an urgent priority which cannot be put on hold until the longer-term policy
work is completed.
8.            Schools and Enrollments. Reliable data on education in the Federation of
Bosnia-Herzegovina are scarce for several reasons: a) political fragmentation within the
Federation and parallel structures make it difficult to cross-reference the available data; b)
difficult access to certain areas hampers data collection and assessment of the current situation;
and c) in some areas, the situation changes from day to day as a result of the war-related refugee
movements. Thus, basic educational statistics will need to be refined in the early stages of the
recovery effort.
9.            It is clear, however, that access to education in Bosnia has been severely limited.
Between 1990 and 1995, primary enrollments in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina reportedly
declined by over 50 percent -- from 542,000 to 255,000; secondary enrollments also declined by
over 50 percent -- from 168,000 to 82,000; higher education enrollments declined from 35,000 to
about 18,000. These figures understate the true disruption for many schools -- which have
suffered frequent changes of teachers and students, changes of premises, deprivation of the most
basic learning materials, and the recurring trauma of violence and its personal consequences. The
most current education statistics available for the Federation, organized by level of education and
by ethnic group, are presented in Appendix 6.
10.           School Damages. War damage to school infrastructure is extensive. The
Ministry of Energy and Industry has prepared a general assessment of total school reconstruction
needs at each level of education in the Federation, net of furniture and equipment needs. The
assessment shows that over 50 percent of both primary and secondary schools have sustained
damage during the war and that over 30 percent of all schools have sustained significant damage
(more than 15 percent needing refurbishment). Official estimates of war damages for all levels of
education are presented in Appendix 7. It is also estimated that about 50 percent of schools do
not have basic desks and chairs for teachers and students.
B. Bank Response and Recovery Strategy for Education
Emergency Reconstruction Program
11.           Education governance in Bosnia-Herzogovina is currently in a state of flux,
making decisions and coordination between levels -- entities, cantons, municipalities, and schools
-- difficult (paragraphs I and 2). Logistical constraints to communication and political tensions
add to the difficulties. However, education sector reconstruction cannot be put on hold until these
issues are resolved. The Federation Ministry of Education has placed great emphasis on
encouraging communications and cooperation among canton and municipality-level authorities --
for example, to develop practical mechanisms for allocating investment financing and operating
funds within the country. Preparation of the proposed Project for emergency reconstruction has
helped to facilitate contacts between the Federation MOE and the cantons/municipalities. The
same is expected for the Republika Srpska. Implementation of the Project should be an important
vehicle for continued cooperation.



- 4 -
12.           Because of the current state of flux in education governance, reconstructing the
education sector will be difficult to plan, as well as to implement. The Government and donors
realize that addressing all priority programs at the same time and in a well-coordinated manner is
simply not possible under current constraints. Flexibility and communication on the part of the
Government and donors will be key to implementing an effective investment programs in
education in the near term. As part of preparations for the Brussels donor conference in
December, the broad goals of a reconstruction program for education were agreed. The highest
priority objectives are to make fully functional those classrooms which were damaged by the war,
to restore effective teaching capacity by providing minimal supplies of textbooks, supplementary
readers, and educational materials, and to support the resumption of at-least minimal salaries for
teachers. The priority within the school reconstruction program is to start with efforts which
would restore effective classroom teaching fastest and at the least cost. At the same time, the
MOE will attempt to build its own institutional capacity to manage and coordinate the
rec instruction effort and to deal with longer-term policy issues.
13.           Although the Government's emphasis now is rightly on emergency reconstruction
needs, government authorities and donors have identified a number of key policy issues which
will necessarily have to be addressed in parallel with the provision of emergency reconstruction
support. In addition to the overall governance issue mentioned above, these include the
appropriateness of curriculum and content for education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, textbook
production and financing, and the structure of secondary and adult education. As in other
education systems of the region, there is an inherited legacy of over-specialization in secondary
technical and vocational education, an excessively specialized and ideology-laden curriculum, and
outdated teaching and learning methodologies. Structural reforms are needed, particularly at the
secondary level, to reorient education in Bosnia to the requirements of a modern market economy
and post-Communist society. The Ministries of Education of the two entities are aware of the
need to introduce systemic reforms and will, for the time being, take the lead in working with
external assistance in these crucial areas. Eventual implementation of initiatives concerning broad
education reform will, of course, need to await a resolution of governance issues. In the
meantime, emergency support is being focused on providing core textbooks and basic learning
materials to teachers and students.
14.           An education reconstruction program of about US$250 million is currently under
consideration by the international donor community to support the above priorities. Of this total,
US$189 million is for activities in the Federation; the balance represents estimated reconstruction
needs in the Republika Srpska. This program is part of the three-year, US$5.1 billion
reconstruction program for all sectors which the Bank and the European Community (EC) have
helped to develop in a joint effort with the Government and the donor commnunity. It is expected
that some of these needs will be met by a continuation of current donor assistance, the future
costs of which are included in the figures in Table 1.



- 5 -
Table 1: DONOR FINANCING REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIORITY NEEDS
IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
(in millions of US$)
3-Year                  First
Program                  Year
of which,              of which,
Federa-                Federa-
Activity/Input                 State       tion       State       tion
Recurrent Budget Support
Teacher Salaries                            60         39          20          17
School Operations & Maintenance              9          6          3           3
Investment Program
Educational Materials'                      20          7          5           5
Rebuilding Teacher Force2                    7          7          4           4
Institution Building3                        7          7          3           3
Student Recovery4                            5          3          2           2
School Reconstruction-                      142        120         30         20
TOTAL                                         250         189         67    | 54 
1. Includes $0.2 million of TA.  4. Includes $0.5 million of TA.
2. Includes $0.3 million of TA.  5. Includes $6.0 million of TA.
3. Includes $1.5 million of TA.
15.           Confirmed financing for the priority areas listed above falls far short of needs. In
particular, resources have not been forthcoming to assist BH with needed salary and school
operating cost support, and BH is reluctant to borrow even on concessional IDA terms to cover
these costs. Although it will not be possible in the near term to mobilize the same absolute level
of recurrent expenditures prevailing in 1990 (about US$400 million per year), it is essential to
begin to restore funding for teachers' salaries and other vital operational expenditures at all levels
of education. The share of total recurrent needs for education which require donor financing is
expected to decline over the initial three years, as local resource mobilization improves.
IBRD/IDA Assistance Strategy
16.           To date, education reconstruction efforts on the part of the Government and
donors have been on a relatively small scale and ad hoc in nature, reflecting the plethora of
urgent needs and multiplicity of donors and the difficult environment for planning, implementing
and coordinating specific investments. In this context, the Bank has decided, in consultation with
the Government and key education donors, to support education reconstruction with a series of
investment projects to be implemented over a three year period which can be designed to respond
quickly as political tensions decrease, more hard information becomes available and governance
and policy issues are resolved. This first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project is focused
on mneeting emergency needs which will allow primary education in the country to operate at
minimum acceptable standards. It will also provide assistance to allow the MOE to begin to
address some of the key policy issues outlined above. A second and eventually a third education
project will provide resources to continue reconstruction in primary education, as well as begin to
rebuild secondary facilities in the context of a broader secondary reform program. The latter two



- 6 -
projects will also provide support for two priority areas -- teacher training and remedial education
for war disruption -- for which sufficient information and implementation capacity was not
available to include in a first emergency project. These projects will gradually shift in terms of
their objectives from emergency reconstruction to longer term development priorities. Significant
co-financing and parallel financing is needed for all three projects.
17.           Although it is vitally important to restore teachers' salaries as soon as possible, it
is not proposed to support them unless the Government develops a feasible plan for payment, and
unless other sources of donor financing are identified. Initial needs for minimal teachers' salaries
are estimated at US$20 million for BH in the first year. Donor financing for teacher salaries, if
confirmed, would be included in the second education reconstruction project, to be implemented
in parallel with the proposed Emergency Education Reconstruction Project.
C. Detailed Project Description
18.           The primary objective of the Project is to support Bosnia and Herzegovina's
efforts to restore the delivery of primary education of acceptable quality during the 1996-97
school year. A secondary objective is to help build capacity for planning and implementation of
education programs at the State, entity, canton, and municipality level.
19.           To achieve these objectives under the prevailing constraints, this first Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project focusses on meeting immediate educational needs in primary
schooling which can, for the most part, be put in place prior to the start of the next school year in
September, 1996. The Project will support actions to enable primary schools throughout the
Federation to operate at minimum acceptable educational standards, and will prepare for similar
actions in the Republika Srpska (RS). The Project will support the rehabilitation of a first tranche
of lightly damaged primary schools throughout the Federation which have been identified by
municipality and cantonal authorities as being of the highest priority for reconstruction, and the
reconstruction of destroyed schools in a limited number of cases where no alternative capacity
exists. It will also provide essential textbooks, supplementary reading materials, and other
educational materials to most primary classrooms throughout the Federation, and will support
actions to begin to strengthen the Federation's capacity to implement education programs at all
levels of government. These actions will benefit a broad cross-section of communities throughout
the Federation. Project resources are to be allocated to cantons throughout the Federation on the
basis of population; project resources are to be allocated within cantons on the basis of local
priorities for education reconstruction.
20.            Although it was not possible to assess reconstruction needs and capacity in the
Republika Srpska during the period when the proposed Project was prepared and appraised, it is
expected that the RS will participate in the next stage of reconstruction for the education sector in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to ensure that the RS is ready to participate in donor-financed
projects at the State level and to help make up for time lost due to the embargo, financing is
provided under this Project to enable authorities in the RS to assess education reconstruction
needs, and to prepare and pilot education reconstruction actions which would be supported under
subsequent donor-financed education reconstruction projects.
21.            Project costs are estimated at US$32.8 million. Individual components are
described below. Detailed cost tables are included in Appendix 1. Implementation and
institutional responsibilities are described in Section D.



-7 -
Primary School Reconstruction
22.            This component will provide financing for (i) the refurbishment of about 70 large
primary schools (estimated cost, US$18.0 million); (ii) the construction of about three
replacement primary schools (estimated cost, US$3.0 million); (iii) the provision of furniture for
classrooms in these schools (estimated cost, US$2.0 million); and (iv) design and management
assistance (estimated cost, US$2.3 million). The reconstruction represents about 18 percent of the
Federation's estimated primary school reconstruction needs. A description of the process and
criteria used to select schools to benefit from reconstruction and refurnishing is provided below.
Construction will be carried out by local construction contractors to be selected on a competitive
basis. Architectural designs and specifications will be developed by the MOE's implementation
management agent, the International Management Group (IMG) (see Section D), using local
contractors; this work will be financed on a grant basis by the EU.
23.            Selection of Primary Schools for Refurbishment and Replacement. Schools
have been selected and agreed with the Bank for refurbishment and reconstruction under the
Project under the following procedure. (A list of the specific schools selected for rehabilitation
and reconstruction under the Project is available upon request.) The initial selection was carried
out on the basis of the Government's strategy to focus initial reconstruction support for education
on schools which can be rapidly rehabilitated, thereby restoring education facilitates to the
greatest possible number of students for the 1996-97 school year. As the agency responsible for
overseeing the school reconstruction process at the Federation level, the MOE took the lead in
defining criteria for selecting schools and reaching agreement on the criteria with the Bank, as
well as for working with canton-level education ministries and other education authorities (in the
cases where canton-level ministries are not yet formed) to apply the criteria to the needs of the
various municipalities. During February 1996, the MOE requested canton-level authorities to
identify the primary schools in their areas which: (i) had sustained light to medium war-related
damage or deterioration; (ii) were not benefiting from or expected to benefit from other donor
financing; and (iii) could be refurbished to allow students to attend classes during the 1996-97
school year. It also asked for supplementary information which would allow it to further
prioritize schools to benefit from financing in this first Project. This information included student
and teacher numbers (both trained and untrained teachers), numbers of classrooms (both in use
and currently not usable), and a brief description of rehabilitation work to be carried out. In
addition, canton authorities were asked to propose the replacement of fully destroyed or otherwise
unusable schools only if these schools could be justified on the basis of: (i) the number of students
without access to any school facility; and (ii) evidence that the population of the catchment area is
stable, such as comparisons with the former population of the area and the availability of
permanent housing.
24.            Authorities were asked to request school furniture only in cases where basic
furniture such as blackboards, desks and chairs for students and teachers, small shelves and book
cupboards did not exist for an existing classroom or one to be refurbished or constructed under
the program. Replacement of old or partially damaged furniture will not be included in this first
phase.
25.            Once this information was received from individual cantons, the MOE used the
agreed criteria and supplementary information to bring funding proposals in line with funds
expected to be available under the first-year school rehabilitation program (about US$20 million).
Schools not selected for this first phase of reconstruction would be eligible for financing in second
and third phase lending operations. Balance between funds made available to the various cantons
was also sought on a per-capita basis. The MOE, in cooperation with its implementation agent,
IMG (see implementation arrangements in Section D), will verify all information provided by the
canton level prior to beginning competitive selection of construction contractors and furniture



- 8 -
suppliers. Changes to the original list of schools to benefit from the program may be made at
that time.
26.           Refurbishment costs have been estimated by the MOE and canton authorities to be
about US$400 per square meter on average and the average cost for new construction of
replacement schools is estimated to be US$800 per square meter. These costs are high, reflecting
both elevated materials pricing during the war, and a lack of knowledge of post-war construction
costs. It is expected that IMG's participation in the verification process and the use of
competitive selection will lead to a reduction in the actual square-meter costs. Canton authorities
would be invited to reallocate any cost savings within their cantons to undertake work on priority
schools that were not selected from their original requests due to lack of funds, thereby providing
an incentive for economy in square-meter costs. The cost of school furniture is estimated to be
US$4,000 per classroom, based on a classroom size of 32 per class. This estimate is based on
recent experience with furniture manufacturing in Bosnia.
Books and Educational Materials
27.           This component (estimated cost US$6.1 million) will finance the printing of
textbooks and the purchase and printing of supplementary readers for primary and secondary
education, as well as basic educational materials packages for primary schools. This material is
expected to be delivered to schools for the 1996-97 school year. Titles selected for production
and delivery under the Project are principally in science, math, and literature; textbooks and
readers covering controversial subject matter -- particularly, in areas such as history and
geography -- are not provided under the Project. The average unit cost for textbooks is estimated
to be US$4 and the average unit cost for readers is estimated to be US$3. Educational materials
are estimated to cost US$130 per classroom package.
28.           The Federation MOE is in the process of completely updating its list of approved
textbooks. Beginning in 1993, it organized two competitions in which authors were invited to
submit manuscripts against a list of standard subjects for both primary and secondary education.
The manuscripts were evaluated and selected by committees established by the Federation MOE.
The first selection of 56 textbooks, which cover Bosnian history, language and culture, were
printed in Slovenia using donor financing and distributed to schools in Bosniac-majority areas in
1994. A second list of 72 textbooks have been submitted to donors for financing covering a
broader range of subjects. These books have not been accepted for use in Croat majority areas
where textbooks are imported from Croatia. Educational authorities in Sarajevo and Mostar are
cooperating to investigate the use of a limited number of common textbooks for use throughout
the Federation, which could be financed in a second phase. For this Project, eight supplementary
reader titles, but no text titles were selected in common by educational authorities for both
Federation partners. Priority in selection was given to primary-level textbooks and science and
math books for general secondary education. More specialized secondary texts were excluded,
pending a review of the structure and content of secondary education in Bosnia.
29.           A total of 84 textbook titles have been selected and agreed with the Bank for
printing under the Project. (A list of these textbook titles is available upon request.) These
manuscripts are currently being readied for printing by the Federation MOE under co-financing
provided by the Government of the Netherlands. The total cost of textbook production under the
Project is estimated at US$2.8 million. Textbooks will be printed by private printing houses
selected under international shopping procedures; most, but not all printers invited to submit bids
will be local. All books to be printed with proceeds from this Project will be included in the
Federal MOE's approved list of textbooks. Print runs are estimated to be approximately 35,000
for a general primary text, and 6,000 for a general secondary text.



- 9 -
30.          Fifty-four supplementary readers were selected and agreed with the Bank for
inclusion under the Project, from a list of 92 existing books which represents the Federation
MOE's list of recommended literature for all primary and secondary grade levels. The list, which
is available upon request, includes international translations, as well a selection of local authors
from all ethnic groups in the region. The final selection of supplementary readers for the Project
was based on the availability of readers for delivery to schools by September, 1996. The total
cost of printing and purchasing supplementary readers is estimated to be US$1.3 million. Readers
will be procured off-the-shelf from publishers and/or printed using international shopping
procedures.
31.          A minimum package of pedagogic materials for primary schools such as basic
student supplies, teaching aids and maps was prepared by the Federation MOE with the support of
UNICEF, and agreed with the Bank. The materials will be procured locally to the extent that
they are available at a reasonable price and quality. Materials that cannot be purchased locally
will be procured through UNICEF's educational equipment procurement facility (UNIPAC).
Packages will be made available to each primary school in the Federation on the basis of the
number of classrooms in the school. The Federation has approximately 10,000 classrooms.
However, classrooms where double and even triple shifting is expected during the 1996-97 school
year will receive proportional shares of consumables. The total cost of primary school
pedagogical packages is estimated to be US$1.8 million.
32.          Distribution of all books and materials packages will be the responsibility of the
Federation MOE in cooperation with canton-level education authorities. The capacity of these
agencies to handle distribution was proven in that they successfully distributed the 56 national
subject textbooks printed in 1995 using their own resources. As an alternative, the Bank has
agreed that delivery of books to canton-level warehouses can be included in the printing contracts,
or procured locally on a competitive basis. UNICEF has also volunteered to provide vehicles on
a grant basis to help with distribution, upon written request from the Federation MOE.
Project Implementation and Capacity Building
33.          This component would finance support to assist the Federation MOE and its
canton-level authorities, or its equivalent where cantons are not yet fully operational, to
implement the Pproject, as well as support to help the Federation MOE begin to address long-
term policy issues and improve its own capacity to manage the education sector.
34.          Technical assistance for project implementation and capacity building is being
provided on a grant basis by the European Community Humanitarian Organization (ECHO), by a
Trust Fund established by the Government of the Netherlands, and on a grant basis by the World
Bank. The ECHO grant will finance the support of IMG (see implementation arrangements in
Section D), which will work closely with the Federation MOE and canton-level authorities to
facilitate implementation of the school rehabilitation component. The cost of IMG's assistance for
18 months is estimated at US$800,000; it is included in the reconstruction component. In
addition, grant financing from the Government of the Netherlands in the amount of US$500,000
will be used to provide project management technical assistance, training, and operating costs to
establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Federation MOE. The roles of both IMG
and technical assistance for the PCU are described in Section D below.
35.          Support for policy development and capacity building will be provided in the form
of grant financing from the Government of the Netherlands, to be executed by the World Bank
(not included as part of project costs). These funds will be used to allow staff from the
Federation and canton-level MOEs to benefit from technical assistance in four key policy areas:
(i) education governance and finance, (ii) reform of secondary and adult education, including



- 10 -
associated teacher training at the tertiary level, (iii) textbook production and financing, and (iv)
teacher training. In addition to this technical assistance support, the Project will finance office
equipment and logistical support for the Federal MOE and canton-level MOEs, as well as for the
PCU. Support would include vehicles, office equipment and minor operating costs. The total
base cost of this equipment and support is estimated at US$500,000.
Project Preparation and Pilot Implementation in the Republica Srpska
36.           This component will provide US$500,000 to finance: a) consultant services to
help assess education reconstruction needs, and b) consultant services, civil works, and equipment
to prepare and pilot education reconstruction actions -- including the provision of textbooks,
readers, and educational materials -- for primary schools in the Republika Srpska.
37.           In order to prepare itself to be included in future donor-financed projects financed
through the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina, officials at the Republika Serbska's Ministry of
Education will need to provide State authorities and donors with detailed information on the status
of its education system and the nature and extent of reconstruction needs, as well as estimates of
reconstruction costs and proposed implementation arrangements. To facilitate this process, the
proposed Emergency Education Reconstruction Project will finance technical assistance,
equipment, and operating costs -- estimated at a total cost of US$100,000 -- to help establish a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), similar to that being established by the Federation MOE. The
PCU will be responsible for preparing needed information and presenting it to the State and donor
community in time for the Republika Srpska to be included in the next education reconstruction
project for Bosnia and Herzegovina, scheduled for appraisal early in the summer of 1996. As in
the Federation, assessment of education reconstruction needs will need to be carried out in close
collaboration with education authorities at the cantonal and municipal level. The proposed Project
will also finance pilot activities in school rehabilitation in the Republika Srpska (estimated to cost
US$250,000), and provision of textbooks, readers, and educational materials to schools in the
Republika Srpska (estimated to cost US$150,000). These pilot activities will both develop and
demonstrate implementation capacity as a basis for larger-scale implementation in subsequent
projects. As in the portion of the Project to be implemented in the Federation, the emphasis in
this component is expected to be on primary schools in order to maximize the potential number of
beneficiaries.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
38.           Project Costs. The total cost of the Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
is estimated at US$32.8 million, including physical contingencies of 10 percent on works. No
price or physical contingencies have been included, given the expected short disbursement period
of this emergency Project. The Project is expected to disburse over a 24 month implementation
period. Project costs are presented in Appendix 1.



- 11 -
39.               Financing Plan. The proposed Project would be financed from  a combination of
sources. Of the total project cost of US$32.8 million, US$5.0 million would be a grant from the
Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and US$5.0 million would be proposed for IDA
financing following the commencement of lending to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Grant financing
under the TFBH would be allocated to the first three components of the Project in order to start
implementation of those components as soon as possible. Eventual IDA financing would be used
to supplement this TFBH grant financing -- and other cofinancing -- for the first three
components, as well as to support implementation of the fourth component of the Project.
Cofinancing from the European Community Humanitarian Organization (ECHO) in the amount of
US$2.3 million and from the Government of the Netherlands in the amount of US$0.5 million has
already been confirmed. Additional donor financing of US$20 million is being actively sought.
At the Brussels II pledging conference on April 12-13, 1996, several donors expressed interest in
supporting the Government's priority reconstruction needs in the education sector. Discussions
with these donors are underway to secure firm commitments to fill the project financing gap. If
the necessary financing is not found to fill the gap, the school rehabilitation component and, if
necessary, the books and educational equipment component, would be scaled down to fit available
resources.
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENT
(US$ '000)
IDA          BH Trust Fund    European Union    Dutch Grant      Financing Gap         Total
Components                     Amount    %       Amount    %      Amount    %    Amount   %          Amount    %       Amount    %
1. School Reconstructlon         1,275.0    5.0   1,725.0    6.8   2,300 0     9.1       -            20,000.0   79.1   28,300.0   77.2
2. Books and Educational Matenals  2,950.0   48.4   3,000.0   492        -       -   150.0    2.5           -            8,100.0   186
3. Project Implemen. & Capacrty BUild.  280.0   32.2    290.0   33 3     -       -   300.0    34.5          -       -      870 0    2 7
4. Project Prep & Pilot Activities for RS  500.0  100.0         -                        -                                 500.0    1 5
Total Disbursement                 5,005.0   153   5,015 0    153   2,300.0       7 0   450.0     1 4   20,000 0    61.0   32,770 0   100.0
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ '000)
IDA          BH Trust Fund    European Union    Dutch Grant      Financing Gap         Total
Expenditure Categories      Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %    Amount   %         Amount    %       Amount    %
1. CMI Works                  1,375.0    6.5   1,575 0     7.4        -       -        -       -   18,300 0    861    21,250.0   64.8
2. Furniture and Equipment     430.0    17.6    290.0    11.8                       30.0     1 2    1,700.0   69.4    2,450.0    7.5
3 Books and Educational Materals   3,100.0   51.2   2,950.0    48 8                -       -        -            -    6,050.0   18.5
4 Technical Assistance and Training    100 0  35  200.0    71   2,300 0    81 6   220 0      7.8                 -    2,820.0    8.6
5. Recurrent Costs                         -         -       -         -           200.0  100.0          -       -      200.0     06
Total                           5,005.0    153    5,0150    153    2,3000      70    4500      14    20,0000    61.0   32,7700   100.0
40.               Taxes. World Bank funds will be used to procure specified project inputs, net of
taxes. The Government is expected to waive import taxes and duties for purchases under the
proposed Project, in view of the project's humanitarian objectives. Retroactive financing of 10
percent of the Grant for eligible expenses incurred after January 31, 1996 (but not more than four
months prior to signing) and carried out under agreed procedures.
Environmental Aspects
41.                 Because the Project is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact,
the Project has been assigned to Environmental Category C. Hazardous materials such as
asbestos will not be used in school construction or rehabilitation under the Project.



- 12 -
D. Institutional Arrangements and Implementation
Project Organization and Implementation
42.           The Federation Ministry of Education (MOE) will be responsible for
implementation of the first three components of the Project, in collaboration with education
authorities at the cantonal and municipal levels, municipality public works authorities, and NGOs
where appropriate. The Ministry of Education of the Republika Srpska will have similar
responsibilities for implementation of the fourth component of the Project.
43.           To ensure timely and efficient project implementation, a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) will be created in the Federation MOE to manage implementation of the first three
components of the Project. The PCU would provide logistical support to the technical teams of
the Federation MOE responsible for carrying out activities defined under the Project. The PCU
will be headed by the Project Director, and supported by a professional Management and
Procurement Advisor, with experience managing Bank-financed investment projects and a
thorough knowledge of World Bank procurement guidelines, as well as a bilingual
secretary/translator. The MOE has designated technically responsible staff members for each of
the three components to join the PCU. The PCU will have the following responsibilities: (i)
overall project coordination, day-to-day management, monitoring and progress reporting of
project activities; (ii) overseeing the implementation of the civil works component, with the
support of IMG (see paragraph 49); (iii) overseeing the delivery of educational materials
packages, with the support of UNICEF; (iv) procuring school furniture, textbooks, readers, and
office equipment; (v) identifying and procuring technical assistance and training opportunities
under Government of the Netherlands Grant financing; (vi) managing project funds, including
opening and maintenance of a Special Account in a commercial bank, making payment for works,
goods and services for all components of the Project, and requesting withdrawal of funds from the
credit and trust fund accounts (including managing the financing of other potential donors, and
project accounting); and (vii) maintaining appropriate records as the basis for periodic project
audits.  As part of his/her terms of reference, the PCU Management and Procurement Advisor
would also be responsible for training counterpart staff in project management, procurement, and
accounting. These staff would be available to participate in the implementation of subsequent
education reconstruction projects. The PCU Management and Procurement Advisor would be
nominated by the MOE and terms of reference agreed prior to establishment of the PCU,
expected in May 1996. The cost of the PCU, including technical assistance, training and
operating costs, will be financed under a government-implemented Trust Fund financed by the
Government of the Netherlands. The MOE will provide office space for the PCU; supporting
equipment will be financed under the Project. A PCU will be established under similar
organization and procedures in the Republika Srpska MOE to manage implementation of the
fourth component of the proposed Project, as well as implementation of subsequent donor-
financed education reconstruction activities in the Republika Srpska.
44.           Technical staff seconded to the PCU will be responsible for overseeing work in
the cantons and municipalities on their respective components, and will work closely with
agencies providing implementation assistance (see specific components below). Each functioning
canton or association of municipalities will appoint an individual who will act as a counterpart at
the canton level. If responsible staff of the MOE leave their function or are otherwise unavailable
to carry out their responsibilities, the MOE has agreed to nominate replacements within one
month.
45.           A Project Launch Workshop is to be organized by the PCU prior to Grant
effectiveness. In addition to the authorities of the Federation MOE, this workshop will involve all
responsible staff at the national, cantonal and municipal levels. The purpose of the workshop will



- 13 -
be to: (i) review the project concept and activities; (ii) confirm the role and responsibilities of
each level of authority and implementation; (iii) confirm the location of facilities to be supported
under the Project in accordance with the agreed criteria; and (iv) finalize and agree on the
implementation schedule. Within 30 days following the launch workshop, a procurement
workshop involving all persons concerned with procurement, including the PCU and the
Management Advisor, will be organized by the PCU to review, explain, and assign
responsibilities for the procurement procedures set forth under the Project.
46.           Following is a description of the implementation arrangements and institutional
responsibilities for each component. A detailed implementation schedule for all components is
provided in Appendix 2.
47.           Primary School Reconstruction. It has been agreed with the Federation MOE to
use the services of IMG, which are being financed on a grant basis by ECHO, to help manage the
construction process. The primary school construction component will be managed by the
Federation MOE's Chief Architect, assigned on a part-time basis to the PCU. The Chief
Architect will be responsible for overseeing the work of IMG and coordinating the work to be
performed by canton and municipal-level authorities in line with the implementation schedule
contained in Appendix 2. IMG will be responsible for carrying out the following activities on
behalf of the PCU: a) verify school rehabilitation priorities, as proposed by the cantons, b)
prepare specifications and cost estimates for school rehabilitation, c) engage local architectural
firms to prepare site-specific designs for schools selected for rehabilitation and reconstruction, d)
formnulate bid packages for school rehabilitation and reconstruction, and prepare bidding
documents, e) evaluate bids, recommend bid awards, and negotiate contracts, and f) supervise
implementation of school rehabilitation. 1MG has extensive prior experience in the required
functions, and is currently organized and staffed in all cantons. IMG will summarize progress in
a brief monthly report to be submitted to the PCU and will also prepare a final report of
accomplishments once works have been completed. Furniture procurement will also be the
technical responsibility of the Chief Architect at the PCU, who will define specifications and
coordinate procurement of furniture in cooperation with canton-level educational authorities.
48.            Books and Educational Materials. Implementation of this component is to be
managed by the Federation MOE's Chief Editor, assigned on a part-time basis to the PCU. The
Chief Editor will be responsible for assuring content, quality and acceptability of textbooks and
educational materials, while maintaining the implementation schedule for this component (see
Appendix 2). The Chief Editor will be responsible, with the support of the Management Advisor,
for organizing the competitive selection of printing firms/book suppliers for selected textbooks
and readers (see Section C for a description of selection process) and for organizing their delivery
to canton-level warehouses. Canton authorities have the capacity for distributing books to
schools, and will be responsible for distribution of textbooks, readers, and educational materials
to schools under the Project.
49.            Project Implementation and Capacity Building. Technical responsibility for
implementation of this component has been assigned to the Director of the MOE's Pedagogical
Institute. This individual will be responsible for overall policy dialogue and consensus building
among all parties working towards a definition of priorities for Bosnia's education system,
consistent with the implementation schedule for this component (see Appendix 2). The Director
will take responsibility, with assistance from the Management and Procurement Advisor, for
identifying technical support, external training opportunities, and equipment needs. The Director
will act as the chief liaison between the MOE and the technical assistance agencies financed under
the Bank-executed trust fund financed by the Government of the Netherlands.



- 14 -
50.          Project Preparation and Pilot Implementation in the Republika Srpska. Once
the PCU has been established in the Republika Srpska, it is expected to use the criteria already
established in the Federation to select two or three damaged primary schools for rehabilitation.
Under project financing, the PCU would engage an architectural firm to prepare designs and
supervise construction, and would engage one or more contractors to carry out the rehabilitation.
IMG or another suitably qualified consultant may assist in the management of these tasks. The
PCU would also identify a limited number of textbooks, supplementary readers, and/or
educational materials which are needed in RS primary schools, and would prepare a plan for
procuring and distributing these materials to schools most in need. Selection of these materials
within the available resources would be made on the basis of the same criteria which have been
developed for the Federation. For textbooks and supplementary readers, the Project could finance
pre-printing costs, printing, and delivery to warehouses and schools. For educational materials, it
could finance the purchase and delivery of educational materials. In view of the severe time
constraint -- aiming for delivery to schools by the start of the 1996/1997 school year -- these
would need to be purchased largely from existing stocks.
Procurement
51.          Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below and a procurement
plan is attached in Appendix 3. Project procurement is to be mainly through Simplified National
Competitive Bidding (SNCB), Limited International Bidding (LIB), International Shopping (IS),
National Shopping (NS) and Direct Contracting (DC).
52.           Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) (Appendix III) will be
published in Development Business in April/May 1996. The notice would include information
about the nature of the goods, works and services to be procured and invite interested and eligible
suppliers, contractors and consultants to send their expression of interest to the PCU. The GPN
will also be published in the local press. The GPN will be followed by specific advertisements in
the local press for individual contracts. Bidding documents will be sent to suppliers who respond
to the GPN and the specific advertisement. Expression of interest will also be used to prepare
Limited International Bidding lists.
53.           Goods. Goods will be procured under the Project through the following
procedures:
a.    International Competitive Bidding (ICB). It is envisaged that ICB
procedures will not be utilized for the procurement of goods or services,
since it is not expected that any single contract would reach the US$5.0
million equivalent threshold.
b.     Limited International Bidding (LIB). Although it is unlikely that any
procurement packages for goods in the Project would exceed US$2.0
million, any goods packages estimated to cost over US$2.0 million would
be procured by LIB, tendering by invitation. As presented in Appendix 3,
it is expected that all procurement packages for goods will be under the
US$2.0 million threshold, and will therefore be procured through
International Shopping (IS), National Shopping (NS), or Direct
Contracting (DC).
c.    International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for
equipment and materials or standard-specification commodities estimated
to cost between US$200,000 and US$2.0 million per contract. IS will be
based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers



- 15 -
from two eligible countries, in accordance with Bank guidelines. In the
case of book and educational materials printing and/or provision, IS will
be used to ensure that local pricing is internationally competitive. A
portion of the minimum educational materials packages may be procured
for the MOE directly by UNICEF through their procurement agent,
UNIPAC.
d.     National Shopping (NS). NS will be used for contracts for goods
available in Bosnia Herzegovina up to an estimated cost of US$200,000
per contract, with at least three quotations.
e.     Direct Contracting (DC). DC will be used for proprietary items, for
reasons of compatibility and standardization, and in any other justified
case. Any direct contracting to be financed by the proceeds of the Grant
will need prior Bank approval.
54.           Recurrent Costs/incremental Operating Costs.  Recurrent Costs and
Incremental Operating Cost items will be procured as follows: Limited PCU technical support
will be procured on a sole-source basis. Office supplies and other services will be procured
through NS or IS, according to the availability of required items in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and
the size of the procurement packages, and will follow the provisions set for NS and IS.
Proprietary items such as periodicals will be procured through DC with local companies.
55.           Works. Given the nature of civil works under the Project, mainly rehabilitation
of existing facilities and replacement of small primary school facilities, Simplified National
Competitive Bidding (SNCB) will be used for contracts estimated to cost up to US$1.0 million
per contract. These works will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of works, including basic
specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to successfully complete the contract within the specified time period. Any school
construction contracts estimated to cost more than US$1.0 million but less than US$5.0 million
would be awarded on the basis of advertised National Competitive Bidding. The contracting
industry was well established throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina prior to the war. The
experience of IMG and NGOs involved in reconstruction activities during the war indicates that
much of this capacity still exists or could readily be revived. Thus, the civil works for school
rehabilitation and reconstruction under the Project is expected to be carried out in the customary
manner -- through contracts with commercial construction enterprises. In the unlikely event that
contracting for rehabilitation of particular schools or groups of schools proves impractical -- for
example, if all bid prices are excessive or if local contracting capacity is insufficient -- and if staff
with the requisite skills are available in the municipalities concerned, rehabilitation of those
schools could be carried out by Force Account, with prior Bank approval.
56.           Services. Services under the Project will be procured through competition and
sole-sourcing where and when appropriate. Qualified firms will be invited to submit proposals for
comprehensive packages of consultant services and management of fellowships and training in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). To keep the evaluation process manageable,
no more than six (but at least three) proposals will be invited following a short listing acceptable
to the Bank.



- 16 -
57.          Procurement Implementation Capacity. In addition to the procurement
assistance which is to be provided by IMG for the school rehabilitation and reconstruction
component, procurement assistance will be provided by suitably qualified international and local
consultants for the other project components. For the textbook and educational materials
component, UNICEF will assist the Federal Ministry of Education to identify funding priorities,
and will help procure educational materials locally and, if necessary, through its educational
equipment procurement facility in Copenhagen (UNIPAC). If necessary, the PCU will engage a
procurement advisor satisfactory to the Bank to assist in procurement of school furniture,
textbooks, readers, and educational materials. Similar arrangements will be made in the
Republika Srpska for implementation of the fourth component of the Project. General support for
procurement and other aspects of project implementation will be provided by staff of the Bank's
Resident Mission in Sarajevo, including a human resources operations officer and procurement
adviser. Supervision assistance will also be provided by human resources staff from Headquarters
and from the Bank's Human Resources Hub in Budapest.
58.          Procurement Review Committee. There are plans for establishment of a generic
Procurement Review Committee at the State level to ensure that externally financed reconstruction
projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina comply with agreed procurement procedures. The proposed
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project would be subject to review by this Committee.
59.          Prior and Post Bank Review of Procurement Documents. The Bank has
prepared the invitation to quote and contract documents for International Shopping, Simplified
Bidding documents for NCB and a National Shopping document for civil works. These
documents would be used under the Project. Prior review will be required for all contracts
procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) and Direct Contracting (DC), and all
activities to be carried out under Force Account. Also, the first three contracts awarded through
International Shopping (IS), National Shopping (NS), Simplified National Competitive Bidding
(SNCB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB), and through UN Agencies, will require prior
review from the Bank. For consulting services, individual contracts of US$50,000 or more and
consulting firm contracts of US$100,000 or more will require prior review by the Bank. All
consultant contracts will follow the Bank's standard form for consultants contracts. Ex-post
review of procurement actions on a sample basis would be carried out during supervision
missions.



- 17 -
Table 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Procurement methods (USSm) a/
Category of Expenditures                IS        NS b/         Other           NBF             Total
Civil works c/                                       3.20                          18.10           21.30
(1.57)                                       (1.57)
Books & Educational                    3.00          3.00                                           6.0
Materials                            (1.50)        (1.44)                                        (2.94)
Furniture, Equipment
& Vehicles c/                                      0.70                           1.80           2.50
(0.29)                                       (0.29)
Technical Assistance
and Training                                                       0.20           2.60            2.80
(0.20)                         (0.20)
Incremental Operating Costs e/                                                      0.20           0.20
Total Financing                        3.00          6.90           0.20           22.70           32.80
(1.50)        (3.30)        (0.20)                         (5.00)
IS - International Shopping
NS - National Shopping
NBF - Non-Bank Financed
a/       Figures in parentheses represent TFBH financing.
b/       Due to the emergency situation, all civil works, school fumiture, office equipment and vehicles will be procured using
national shopping procedures; no single contract is expected to exceed $1.0 million.
C/       The procurement of non-Bank financed civil works, goods and equipment will be carried out in conformity with World
Bank procurement guidelines developed for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
d/       Educational materials packages for primary schools may be procured by UNICEF's procurement facility, UNIPAC.
e/       Incremental operating costs include office supplies and logistical support for travel.



- 18 -
Disbursements
60.          Disbursement categories and projected disbursements under the Grant are shown
in Table 5, below. The Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of 24 months from the
date of effectiveness, scheduled for May 1996. The closing date will be September 30, 1998.
Although the capacity of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to pre-finance activities is
very limited, the possibility of retroactive financing should not be excluded. Therefore,
retroactive financing will be permitted up to the limit of 10 percent of the portion of the Grant to
be implemented in the Federation for eligible expenses incurred after January 31, 1996 (but not
more than four months prior to signing).
Table 5: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES AND SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
TFBH Category         Federation  % of Expenditures to be Financed
1. Civil works                1.60     100% (net of taxes)
2. Goods                      2.85     100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consultant Services       0.20      100%
and Training
5. Incremental Operating
Costs                  0.05      100%
6. Unallocated                0.30
TOTAL                5.00
61.          Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, payments for
agreed project actions are to be made from a Special Account in US dollars which is to be
established, maintained, and operated by the State Ministry of Finance at a foreign commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank. Responsibility for making payments from the Special Account
would be delegated by the State and Federation Ministries of Finance to the PCU of the
Federation's MOE. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be limited to
US$1.0 million, representing about four months of estimated average expenditures expected to be
paid from the Special Account. Replenishment applications would be forwarded to the Bank
monthly and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate documents.
For large contracts, the Bank would make direct payments to suppliers.
62.          Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for goods and civil works contracts of up to US$1.0 million (with the



- 19 -
exception of the first three contracts less than US$1.0 million, the first 3 contracts through a
U.N. agency, and all direct contracting); for contracts for consulting firms and individuals of up
to US$100,000 and US$50,000, respectively; and all training and individual operating cost.
Detailed documents evidencing expenditures would be maintained in a central location by the
PCU for review by the required audit as well as Bank supervision missions. Disbursement for
contracts requiring the Bank's prior review would be made against presentation to the Bank of full
contract documentation. The Project completion date would be March 31, 1998.
Project Audits, Accounting and Reporting
63.           Accounts. Separate and auditable accounts would be established and maintained
by the two PCUs for project. For each entity, these accounts would include: (i) a record of
withdrawals with copies of all disbursement requests and underlying documentation; and (ii) a
record of transactions under the Special Account and copies of the bank statements pertaining to
the account.
64.           Audits. The project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Separate audit statements would be
prepared for the Special Account and for Statements of Expenditures. All audit reports would be
made available to the Bank at the latest six months after the end of the fiscal year. Project
accounts would be maintained for one year after they have been audited.
65.           Reporting. The project PCUs will prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly: a)
progress reports showing the status of implementation of the Project, and b) financial reports in a
format acceptable to the Bank. Participating cantons/municipalities would submit quarterly to the
respective PCUs a very brief progress report on their project activities. In addition, IMG will
provide separate monthly progress reports on the implementation of the Primary School
Reconstruction Component, detailing implementation progress at the canton and municipality
level, as well as a final report following completion of the component.
Supervision Plan
66.           Project implementation will require a large degree of flexibility in view of the
rapidly changing circumstances in the country. In particular, procurement and disbursement
issues would require intensive supervision, given the flexibilities built into the implementation
plan, and the lack of familiarity of the Borrower with Bank procedures and practices.
Implementation progress would be formally evaluated at mid-term, approximately nine months
after effectiveness. To facilitate flexibility and rapid decision-making, the social sectors Bank
staff located in the World Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo and in the Human Resources Hub in
Budapest would provide intensive supervision of initial project implementation, and would provide
prompt feedback on matters requiring a decision by the Bank.






- 20 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 1 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency School Reconstruction Project
Estimated Cost and Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Project Cost Summary
Project
Project       Prep &
Books and  Implementation      Pilot
School      Educational   and Capacity    Activities
Reconstruction   Materials      Building      for RS       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                   21,000.0           -               -       250.0    21,250.0
B. Fumiture and Equipment                         2,000.0           -           450.0           -     2,450.0
C. Educational Materials                               -       6,100.0              -       150.0     6,250.0
D. Technical Assistance and Training              2,300.0           -           220.0       100.0     2,620.0
Total Investment Costs                             25,300.0      6,100.0          670.0       500.0    32,570.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs                         -            -           200.0           -       200.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                    -            -           200.0           -       200.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                25,300.0      6,100.0           870,0       500.0    32,770.0
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                 25,300.0     6,100.0           870.0       500.0    32,770.0



- 21 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency School Reconstruction Project
Estimated Costs
(US$ '000)
School Reconstruction Component
1996       1997      1998      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Primary School Rehabilitation            14,400.0    3,600.0        -    18,000.0
Primary School Replacement                1,200.0    1,800.0        -     3,000.0
Subtotal Civil Works                       15,600.0    5,400.0        -    21,000.0
B. Primary School Furniture
Furniture                                 1,800.0      200.0        -     2,000.0
C. Design & Management Assistance
Construction Management Assistance          480.0      320.0        -       800.0
Designs and Specifications                1,500.0          -        -     1,500.0
Subtotal Design & Management Assistance     1,980.0      320.0        -     2,300.0
Total                                      19,380.0    5,920.0        -    25,300.0
Books and Educational Materials Component
1996      1997      1998      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Books and Educational Materials
Textbooks                                1,960.0      840.0        -    2,800.0
Readers                                  1,040.0     260.0         -    1,300.0
Minimum Materials Packages               1,440.0      360.0        -    1,800.0
Subtotal Books and Educational Materials   4,440.0    1,460.0        -    5,900.0
B. Distribution Support
Book Distribution                          40.0        10.0        -       50.0
C. Pre-Printing Support
Technical Assistance                       150.0          -        -      150.0
Total                                         4,630.0    1,470.0             6,100.0



- 22 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 3 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency School Reconstruction Project
Estimated Costs
(US$ '000)
Project Implementation and Capacity Building Component
Investment Costs                             1996    1997    1998    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Project Implementation
1. Technical Assistance                  200.0        -        -   200.0
2. Equipment Support
Office Equipment                        80.0    20.0         -   100.0
Vehicles                                50.0        -        -    50.0
Subtotal Equipment Support               130.0    20.0         -   150.0
3. Training                               20.0        -        -    20.0
Subtotal Project Implementation            350.0    20.0         -   370.0
B. Capacity Building
1. Equipment Support
Office Equipment                        80.0    20.0         -   100.0
Vehicles                               200.0        -        -   200.0
Subtotal Equipment Support               280.0    20.0             300.0
Total Investment Costs                        630.0    40.0        -   670.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs             100.0   100.0         -   200.0
Total Recurrent Costs                         100.0   100.0         -   200.0
Total                                         730.0   140.0        -   870.0
Project Preparation and Pilot Implementation in the Republika Srpska
1996    1997    1998    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                            250.0        -        -   250.0
B. Books and Educational Materials        150.0        -        -   150.0
C. Preparation Support                    100.0                     100.0
Total                                       500.0        -        - 500.0



- 23 -                           . ~~~~Aperndix 2
- 23 -                                    Page 1 of 5
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Education Reconstruction Project
Project Implementation Schedule
_       ~      ~                            -      
Activity                  Descripuon                Stut Date  End Date -aWe
School Reconstruction Component
Selection of      Collect reconstrucuon and furnishing   Feb. 12    Feb. 29    PI
schools           proposals from canton-level
Review and prioritize proposals in line  March 1   March 11   MOE/PI
with available funding using agreed                          with IMG
criteria
Agree with WB on schools to be selected   March 11   March 15   MOE/PI
for financing in a first phase                               with WB
reconstuction project
Verification and    Verify submissions proposed by cantons    March 18   April 8  PI with IMG
design phase      in termis of criteria for seleciion and cost
proposal
Pt/Cantns
Prepare specifications for school      Mrch 18   April 15    with IMG
refrbishments and furniture
Prepare architectural designs for     Muarch 18   May 18    PI/Cantons
replacement schools including prototype                      with IMG
designs for each tvpe of school (small.
medium, large)
Prepare detailed implementation pian for   April 15    April 30    PI with 1MG
school reconstruction program
(refurbishment & replacement) and
furnintre delivery
Procure           Prepare procurement documents for      April 17    April 24    PI with IMG
contractors for   school refurbisLnent
refurbishment
works and school   Choose at least three quaiified contractors  April 24    April 30    PICantons
hrniture          and invite for bidding                                       with 1MG
Prepare bids                          April 30    May 21     Contcors
Evaluate bids                         May 21      May 25     PUCantons
with IMG
Award and negotiate contracts         May 25    June 2       P1/Cantons
___________________ _I_                                       w with 1IG



- 24 -                                         Appendix 2
Page 2 of 5
AcuvitV                    Descnpuon                 Start Date  End Date   Rcponsble
Sign conutacs once WB credit effective    June 3  June 10    PUCantonst
ThG/WB
Procure           Adveruse locally for expressions of    May 6       May 17     Pi vvith IMG
contactors for    interest on part of major contractors
new replacement
schools           Prepare procurement documents          May 17    June 7       PI with IMG
Choose at least three quaified contractors  June 10    June 14    P/Cantons
and invite for bidding for contracts under                   witl MG
S 1.0 million
Prepare bids                           June 17    July 12    Contractors
Evaluate bids                          July 15    July 19    PllCantons
with ]MG
Award, negouate and sign contracts     July 22    July 26    PoCantons
with IMG
Select schools for   Repeat process of identifying priority  Aug. 5  Aug. 30    PuCantons
second phase of    school reconstruction needs for second
reconstruction    phase of reconstruction program to be
financed by WB and other donors
Refurbish and     Implement reconstruction program       June 11    OcL 31    Conactors
replace schools   according to implementation schedule                          with PItIMG
and deliver       prepared in April                                              nd Cantons
fiurnitre
Superise refurbishment works and       June 1 1    Oct. 31    P1/1MG and
furniture delivery                                           Cantons
Supervise new replacement school                             PU/1MG and
construction and furniture deliverv:                         Cantons
small schools                       July 18    Nov. 18
large schools                      July 18    June 30,
1997
Submit monthly progress report to be   June 30,   June 30,   1mG/
submitted to PI and WB                 1996       1997       CAnons
Submit interim report on completion of            Nov. 5     NIGI
refurbishment works                                          Cantons
Submit final implementation report to PI          July 1997  IMG(
and WB after replacement school                               Cantons
program is completed



- 25 -                                       Appendix 2
Page 3 of 5
Activity                  Descnpuon                 Start Date | End Date   Responsible
l                                     {          ~~~~tatDt  I_ n___
Instituon
Books and Educational Materials Component
Select books and    Review list of 72 textbooks and agree  Feb. 12  March 15  PIIWB
mazenals to be    with WB on books to be financed
financed
Review list of 92 readers and agree with   Feb. 12  March 15  P1PWVB with
WB on readers to be financed                                UNICEF
Prpose means of financing pre-prnting   Feb. 12  March 11   PI
services prior to availabilitv of WB
financing
Determine local market prices of      Feb. 12    March 1   PI
educational materials to be proposed for
local pchase
Complete preparation of minimum       Feb. 12    March 15  PVWB with
educational materials packages for                          UNICEF
primary schools and agree vith WB
Procure and       Invite printing proposals for agreed  March 17   April 30    PI
distribute books    textbooks and readers from a minimum of
and materials    three local printers/book suppliers and at
least on international printer/supplier
Place order for educational materials  March 17   April 1    PUNICEF
packages with UNIPAC and arrange for
purchase of non-UNIPAC supplied
materials on the basis of three price
quotations
Evaluate printing/supply proposals from    May 1  May 15    PI
printers/book suppliers
Negotiate printing and supply contracts    May 15    June 2  PI
Sign contracts once WB credit is effective  June 2  June 10    PIIWB
Distribute books    Take delivery of textbooks readers and  August    September  PI/UNICEF
and materials to    armnge for distribution to canton level
cantons
Take delivey of educational materials  August    September  PI/UNICEF
packages and distribute to canton level



Appendix 2
- 26 -                                    Page 4 of 5
Acttvity                  Dmcnpuon                 Start Date  End Date   Re_osible
Salary Suppiements Component
Establish Criteria   Propose criteria for disuibuting the  Feb. 12  March 11   MOE/PI
for salary       limited funds available for salary
payments to       payments to Federation teachers and
teachers          administrators on an equitable basis
Agree with WB on criteria and         March 11   March 15   MOE/PI/WB
administatv arrangements for salary
payments
Pay salaries to qualiIring teachers and  April   May        MOE/State
staff of MOE                                                MOF
Project Implementation and Capacity Building Component
Seleca key        Pmpose an individual to take          Feb. 12    Mrch 11   MOWPI
personnel         responsibility for each project component
Propose a Pmject Coordinator as well as   Feb. 12  March 11   MOEFIl
two individuals to be trained in
accounting and procurement
Identify technical   Draft terms of reference for consultants to  March I1   April I    PV/WB
amssisance        assist in developing long term policies for
secondary education, textbooks. and
education finance and govemance
IdentLfy individuals or consultant firms to  April 1  April 15    PVWB
provde technical assistance
Negouate and sign contract with technical April 15    May I  MOEIPI
assistance
Procure support    Define specifications for support    March 11   April 15    MOE/PI
equipment         equipment (computers, copiers, vehicles.
etc.) to be provided for the MOE/PI and
Cantons
Organize separate procurement for office   May I  May 31    MOE/PI
equipment and vehicles on the basis of
three price quotations
Sign contracts for equipment and vehicles  June 2  June 10    MOE/PIYWB
once WB credit is effective



- 27 -                                Appendix 2
- 27-                                    Page 5 of 5
Actvity                  Descnption               Start Date  End Date  Reqonable
Review policies tor  Work with technical assistancc teams to    May   Set. I  MOE/PI
secondarv        revise and refine MOE policv on the                        with TA
Oducation        struct  and content of secondary
textbooks and    edon, on textbook production and
govemance        financing, and on education goverance
and finnncing
Orgamze externai  Identify extemal trainng opportunities  March I   June 1  MODEMPI
training         for MOE, PI and Canton level staff
Carry out external training program  June 10    Dec. 15    MOEPIF
Organize payment  Disburse opeaung funds for project  June 10    December  MOEFPI
of project related   related operating costs including journal
operating costs    subscriptions and vehicle operation and
maintenance
-_



- 28 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 1 of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency School Reconstruction Project
Project Procurement
Project Procurement Plan
Expenditure Category           Total Cost     Likely          Invitation      Contract       Work/           All Work/
US$ million    Procurement    to Bid          Awards          Delivery       Delivery
Methods                                        Begins         Complete
CIVIL WORKS
Refurbishment of Schools       18.0           SNCB            5/96            6/96           6-7/96          10-12/96
Construction of Replacement    3.3            SNCB            5/96            7/96           7/96-8/96       5-7/97
Schools
GOODS AND EQUIPMENT
Supply of School Furniture     2.2            NS              5/96            6-7/96         8-9/96          11-12/96
Printing of Textbooks          2.8            IS,NS           5-6/96          6-7/96         8-9/96          9-10/96
Printing of Readers             1.3           IS,NS           4-5/96          6/96           8-9/96          9/10/96
Supply/Printing of Educational  1.8           IS,NS,DC        4-5/96          5-6/96         8-9/96          9i96
Materials
0.2            NS             4-5/96          5/96            5/96           6/96
Office equipment
0.2           IS              4-5/96          5/96            5/96           6/96
Vehicles
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING 1/
Implementation Support
Construction Management     0.8            DC ( Grant)                    3/96            3/96            7/97
Architectural Designs       1.5            DC (Grant)                     4/96            5-6/96          6-7/96
Textbook Pre-printing Serv.   0.2          DC (Grant)                     4/96            4/96            6/96
PCU support                 0.2            Short List      3/96           4/96            4/96            7/97
Training                    0.1            DC                             5/96            6/96            9/96
RECURRENT COSTS                0.2            NS              5-6/96          6/96-3/98      6/96            6/98
(Supplies, Materials,
Operational Expenditures)                                                   .
All TA financed under the project is categorized as implementation support; TA for program development and technical
support is financed through a Bank-executed Dutch Trust Fund which is not considered part of project cost.



- 29 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 2 of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency School Reconstruction Project
Project Procurement
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE
The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected to receive a credit from the
World Bank Trust Fund established for supporting the emergency reconstruction program for the
country. The proceeds of the credit would be used for a proposed Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project. The Government is also expected to receive loans and grants from other
multilateral sources, such as the European Union, and from several bilateral sources.
The loans and grants mentioned above are intended to be used for emergency recovery of
the education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is intended that the loans and grants would
finance the cost of the following procurement:
I.    Reconstruction of primary schools throughout the Federation including civil works
contracting, the preparation of architectural designs and specifications and the
supervision of works.
2.     Supply and/or printing of textbooks, supplementary readers and basic education
materials.
3.    Supply of office equipment, furniture, supplies and vehicles.
4.    Consultant services for pre-printing textbook activities, policy analysis, project
preparation and project implementation.
Given the emergency nature of the Project, the above mentioned goods and consultant
services will be procured through accelerated procurement procedures within the framework of
the procurement guidelines and regulations of the World Bank, European Union, and other
possible participating financing agencies and donors.
Interested suppliers and manufactures and consulting firms are invited to send their
expression of interest to the address specified below. As eligibility requirements of the World
Bank, the European Union and other financing agencies and donors vary for participation in
bidding, the Purchaser will prepare a list of interested suppliers, manufacturers and consulting
firms according to their eligibility. As and when the Purchaser will be ready with bidding
documents or with invitations to quote, these will be sent to those who will respond to this notice.
Name:        Professor Dr. Azra Jaganjac
Director, Pedagogical Institute
Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports
Address:     Pedagoski Zavod
Skenderija 24/V, Sarajevo 71000
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Phone:        (387 71) 471 767
Fax:         (387 71) 471 767



- 30 -
APPENDIX 4
Page 1 of 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency School Reconstruction Project
Education Statistics
Table 1: Primary Education in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Pre War (1990-91)    BH Controlled            Croat-Majority        Federation
(includes Serb         Areas                  Areas                 TOTAL
areas)
Schools         641                     270                   227X  497
Students        541,629               1 199,923              1 54,821               254,744
Teachers        22,879                  7,936                 2,952                  10,888
Table 2: Secondary Education in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Pre War (1990-91)    BH Controlled            Croat-Majority        Federation
(includes Serb         Areas                  Areas                 TOTAL
areas)
Schools           243                     141                   34                    175
Students          167,900                 65,649                16,220                81,869
Teachers          8,850                   4,100                1,180                  5,280
Table 3: Higher Education in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Pre War (1990-91)       BH Controlled         Croat-Majority        Federation
(includes Serb areas)  Areas                  Areas                 TOTAL
Faculties          46                      41                     7                     48
Students           34,500                   15,850                1,758                 17,608
Professors          1,750                   920                   241                   1,161
Source:         Pre-war statistics and data for schools in RBH-controlled areas provided by the Ministry
of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of Bosnia and Herzegovina, July 24, 1995; data
for primary schools in Croat-majority areas provided by school authorities in these areas,
August 9, 1995.
1/     This figure differs from the number of schools listed under BH control in two ways: a) It counts smaller
war schools" individually, whereas the BH figure may count several war schools as one institution; and b) it counts
primary schools with grades 1-4 and primary schools with grades 1-8 individually, whereas the BH figure considers 1-4
primary schools as part of the 1-8 primary school.



- 31 -
APPENDIX 5
Page 1 of 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency School Reconstruction Project
War Damages
Table 1: Damage Assessment of Primary Schools in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Estimated cost of
Level of Damage                     m2             Number of buildings  Repair (in US$mil)
Undamaged                         572,313                  601                  n/a
Under 15% dainaged                283,955                  298                 13.4
15 - 40%                          169,387                  178                 25.1
40 - 60%                          140,757                  148                 34.8
Over 60% damaged                   86,866                  91                  32.8
TOTALS:                          1,253,278                1,316                106.1
Table 2: Damage Assessment of Secondary Schools in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Number of buildings   Estimated cost of
Level of Damage                     m_                  _                Repair (in US$mil)
Undamaged                         244,185                  69                   n/a
Under 15% damaged                 114,273                  32                   5.3
15-40%                            70,202                   20                  10.3
40 - 60%                           58,572                   16                 14.4
Over 60% damaged                   30,109                   8                  11.3
TOTALS:                           517,341                  145                 41.3
Table 3: Damage Assessment of University Buildings in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Estimated cost of
Level of Damage                     mz             Number of buildings  Repair (in US$mil)
Undamaged                          53,365                   10                  n/a
Under 15% damaged                  44,240                   9                   2.1
15 - 40%                          36,553                    7                   5.4
40-60%                             33,173                   6                   8.2
Over 60% damaged                   13,270                   3                   5.0
TOTALS:                           180,601                   35                 20.7
Source: Damage assessment data provided by the BH Ministry of Energy and Industry



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27946
16                             17'                            18 
C R O AT I A
rI                                                                       _ ~45'-
~ 45' 3            St_         i Prijedor
0
CROATIA                            MrkonjiieGrad0    
\  0Bosonsko Grahovo\            \   Donj Vakuf                                 /SerncO~ >
Knin%'|             0Glamo>~<                                               /                 0>~44-
N) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0Sibenik                                                                                      _    / 
\ OJ~~~~~~0ablanica rt A 
0SpIit          \-"N                                                            i5?,-
(           MosMor0 
\-)    /                     tf             ~~~~FEDERAL
oPloc>>.                                                             3
43'                                                        0 ,!                                a               YUGOSLAVIA
;  t   <    0         25        5~~~~~~~~~~~0 75
'i  e     a                                                               ____________________         _ \>   
*v>\   *}            ~~~~KILOMETERS
a ce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h oudre,clrs eoiain
B OS N I A  A N D  H E RZ E GO VI N A                      Duomk6d   osanUy otsher infcrinato ist dho m nalnS
E M  E      BRGoEsNsCY EG     DU CATIoN                                                        T Z eWaold Ban Group,ayudgit
X! '.0 ~~any endorsement or acceptance of
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                              ' tsScbudre
DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES                                 -g   10  .         ', POAD 2c    }      o 5z
,  CCZECH '+-PLN            UKRAINE
SERB-CONTROLLED AREAS                                 z ""S GEMN\_ REP       SR
FEDERATION-CONTROLLED AREAS                        9"~                            'f ~      -'--    .MOLEOVA
RIVERS                     HUNGARYS/
RIVERS                              ~~~~     ~     ~~~~~42-  -  .t , s -   ROMANIA  vr
-42-                         O   SELECTED CITIES                                        S             " ;'   5:
e NATIONAL CAPITAL                            1                         ,   nt) mZs EDRP,._.gOu A
- -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    /-. I ;L  <                 BUGAI '     Sn_s-
*THE STATUS OF BRCKO WILL BE DETERMINED             -p .                 --rero   . AI4ANIA"'n"'  - 6 '- ~>-~40'
Sea          G~REPUBLICnu
16'                              17                               18    1~ 10*TUR~Ec OF                           43Y-
430A   1996SA I
Du6ro\m                 KILOMETERS~~~~~APIL 99









IMAGING
Report No: T      6856 PIIH
Type: MOP



