Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2897 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Education Reconstruction Project - Second Phase)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 22, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2897 BOS
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1996, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(1)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
Page  2
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"Federation MOE" means the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and 
Sports of the Federation, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(c)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be established within the 
Federation MOE pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Republika Srpska" means the Republika Srpska, a political subdivision of 
the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(e)
"RS MOE" means the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of 
the Republika Srpska, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(f)
"Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means each of the two agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and, respectively, the Federation and the Republika 
Srpska, pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement, as the same agreements 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to 
the Subsidiary Credit Agreements;
(g)
"Federation Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(h)
"RS Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
"Special Accounts" means the Federation Special Account and the RS 
Special Account, collectively.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special deposit accounts, the Federation Special Account and the RS 
Special Account, each in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
setby the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
Page  3
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2006 and ending January 1, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2016 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
(i)  shall cause Parts A, B and C.1 of the Project to be carried out by 
the Federation and shall cause Parts C.2 and D of the Project to be carried out by the 
Republika Srpska all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, administrative, financial and educational practices; (ii) 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Federation to carry out Parts A, B and C.1 of the Project and the Republika Srpska to 
carry out Parts C.2 and D of the Project and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of said Parts of the 
Project by the Federation and the Republika Srpska;
(b)
shall lend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to: (i) 
Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a) and 4 in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  4
Agreement to the Federation; and (ii) Categories 1 (b), 2 (b) and 3 (b) in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to Republika Srpska under Subsidiary 
Credit Agreements on the same terms and conditions as set forth in Sections 2.04, 
2.05, 2.06 and 2.07 of this Agreement; and
(c)
shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit Agreements in such 
a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreements or any provision of any such agreement.
Section 3.02. The Federation shall establish and thereafter maintain for 
purposes of  Parts A, B and C.1 of the Project a PCU under terms of reference and with 
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Association. The PCU shall be headed by 
a coordinator and shall have overall responsibility for the management and 
coordination of Parts A, B and C.1 of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Federation shall, for purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, and without limitation thereto: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Federation and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project, and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Federation on said plan.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause the Federation and the 
Republika Srpska to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Federation 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall or shall cause the Federation and the Republika Srpska 
to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year, audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall or 
shall cause the Federation and the Republika Srpska to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
Page  5
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives, based on an appropriate 
notice, to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. For purposes of Section 12.03 of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Federation 
has been executed with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the PCU within the Federation MOE has been established under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association and its coordinator has been appointed all 
in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)
a construction management consultant has been appointed by the PCU of the 
Federation with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association 
to assist the PCU in the implementation of Part A of the Project.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Federation has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the parties to it in 
accordance with the terms of such agreement.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Credit Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
Page  6
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ S. Alkalaj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J.-M. Severino
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Credit, the allocations of the amount of the Credit to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated            % of
                       (Expressed in         Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works                             100% (net of taxes)
    (a) under Parts A and   970,000
        C.1 of  the Project
    (b) under Parts C.2 and 140,000
        D of the Project
(2) Goods                                    100% of foreign
                                             expenditures, 100%
   (a) under Parts A, B   1,900,000          of local expenditures
       and C.1 of the                        (ex-factory cost) and
       Project                               85% of local
                                             expenditures for
                                             other items procured
                                             locally
   (b) under Parts C.2 and   70,000
       D of the Project
(3) Consultants' Services                    100%
    and training
    (a) under Parts A, B    100,000
        and C.1 of the
        Project
    (b) under Parts C.2 and  30,000
        D of the Project
(4) Incremental operating    30,000           100%
Page  7
    costs under Parts A, B
    and C.1 of the Project
(5) Unallocated             260,000
      TOTAL               3,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs incurred by the 
Federation MOE on account of the Project for staff salaries, office facilities, 
services, staff travel and consumable office supplies as may be agreed by the Trustee; 
and
(d)
the term "training" means expenditures incurred in connection with the 
training activities (other than consultants' services) to be carried out under the 
Project, including the travel cost and per-diem of the trainees and other expenditures 
as shall be agreed with the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that  withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 350,000 may be made for Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a) and 4 in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 31, 1996; and (b) expenditures for Categories 1 
(b), 2 (b) and 3 (b) in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Borrower 
has provided the Association with evidence of: (i) the establishment of a PCU within 
the RS MOE under terms of reference and with staffing and other resources acceptable 
to the Association; (ii) the execution of the Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the 
Borrower and the Republika Srpska with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; and (iii) a legal opinion that said Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the parties to it in 
accordance with the terms of such Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for works and goods under 
contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent each and $2,000,000 equivalent each, 
respectively, except for the first three contracts awarded under Schedule 3, Section 
I, Parts B.3, B.4, B.5 and B.7 of this Agreement; (b) incremental operating costs; (c) 
contracts for employment of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; 
and (d) contracts for employment of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent each, each under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower in: (a) restoring the 
delivery of primary education during the 1996-97 school year; and (b) improving the 
capacity of the Federation MOE and RS MOE to manage the public education sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Primary School Reconstruction
 
Refurbishment of about 72 primary schools, construction of about 5 replacement 
primary schools and provision of furniture and equipment to classrooms in about 77 
primary schools in the Federation.
Page  8
Part B:
Books and Educational Material
 
Provision of textbooks and supplementary readers for primary and secondary 
education and educational materials packages for primary schools in the Federation.
Part C:
Project Implementation and Capacity Building
 
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of the Federation MOE for the implementation of 
the Project through the provision of equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and 
training.
2.
Strengthening of the capacity of the RS MOE for the implementation of the 
Project through the provision of equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and 
training.
Part D:
Project Preparation and Pilot Implementation in Republika Srpska
 
Provision of works, consultants' services and equipment to assess the education 
reconstruction needs and prepare and implement pilot education reconstruction 
activities including provision of textbooks, supplementary readers and educational 
material packages for primary schools in Republika Srpska.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Service
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more per contract, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines. In addition, the list of suppliers shall be derived from, inter alia, 
the expressions of interest received in response to the GPN. Bidding documents may 
provide that the bidders can send their bids by fax, in which case bid security shall 
not be required, subject to the satisfaction of the Association that mechanisms to 
ensure confidentiality of bids received by fax are in place.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the following modifications:
(i)
General prequalification will be carried out through advertising 
in the local press. The list of prequalified bidders will be 
updated from time to time as a result of new expression of 
interest and information submitted by qualified contractors;
(ii)
prequalified bidders will be allowed a minimum of four (4) weeks 
to submit their bids;
(iii)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the National 
Competitive Bidding documents agreed with the Association;
(iv)
if interested, foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
 
(v)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
hand-carried bids will be accepted;
Page  9
(vi)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
 
(vii)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
 
(viii)bidders will not be asked, nor allowed to change the substance of 
their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with 
the lowest evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed 
in the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 per contract, may be procured under 
lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
4.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent but less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using standard documentation agreed with the 
Association.
5.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
6.
Direct Contracting
 
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
7.
Force Account
 
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account, in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
8.
Procurement from UN Agencies
 
Goods may be procured from UN agencies such as FAO, ILO, UNICEF and WHO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Parts B.1, B.6 and B.7 of this Schedule; (ii) the 
prequalification criteria and documentation to be included in the invitation to 
prequalify under Section I, Part B.2 of this Schedule; and (iii) the first three 
contracts awarded under each of  Section I, Parts B.3, B.4, B.5 and B.8, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  10
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services, including Commercial Services (as such term is defined in 
paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement), shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants' services issued by the Association, with such modifications as shall 
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the 
Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a) and 4 
in the case of the Federation Special Account and Categories 1 (b), 2 (b) and 3 (b) in 
the case of RS Special Account, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
in the case of the Federation Special Account and an amount equivalent to $50,000 in 
the case of the RS Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Page  11
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of any 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  12
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
