Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
TF 024040   
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Emergency Education Reconstruction Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund
for Bosnia and Herzegovina)
Dated May 20, 1996
TF 024040
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1996 between BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as trustee (the 
Trustee) of the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina as hereinbelow described.
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, acting on the recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, 
decided on February 23, 1996, to transfer from Bank surplus, by way of grant, 
$150,000,000 to a trust fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Trust Fund), established 
by Resolutions of the Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 96-1) and the 
Trustee (Resolution No. IDA 96-1) and to be administered by the Trustee, to be used 
for financing an emergency reconstruction program in the territory of the Recipient; 
and
(B)
the Recipient has requested the Trustee to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project); 
(C)
the Recipient has requested from the Association a development credit in 
an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 equivalent Special Drawing Rights to 
assist in financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and the Association; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The General Conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions, set forth in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
sub-division of the Recipient, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"Federation MOE" means the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and 
Sports of the Federation, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(c)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be established within the 
Federation MOE pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Republika Srpska" means the Republika Srpska, a political subdivision of 
the Recipient, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(e)
"RS MOE" means the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of 
the Republika Srpska, and includes any successor or successors thereto; 
(f)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and the Federation pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01.  The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on a grant 
basis, an amount in various currencies equal to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A, B and C.1 of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C.1 of the Project, 
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998 or such later date 
as the Trustee shall establish.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  3
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
(i)  shall cause Parts A, B and C.1 of the Project to be carried out by 
the Federation with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, administrative, financial and educational practices, and to this end 
shall make available the proceeds of the Grant to the Federation under a Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and the Federation under 
terms, conditions and Project implementation arrangements which shall have been 
approved by the Trustee, including the arrangements set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; (ii) shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the Federation to carry out the Project and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by the 
Federation; 
(b)
shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or 
any provision of any such agreement; and
(c)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, shall cause the 
Federation to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause the Federation to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient and the Federation responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall or shall cause the Federation to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall or 
shall cause the Federation to:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  4
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives, based on an appropriate 
notice, to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been furnished to the Trustee that: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the Recipient and the Federation 
has been executed with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee; 
(b)
the PCU within the Federation MOE has been established under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Trustee and its coordinator has been appointed all in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)
a construction management consultant has been appointed by the PCU of the 
Federation with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee to 
assist the PCU in the implementation of Part A of the Project.
Section 5.02.  As part of the evidence pursuant to Section 5.01, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Trustee of 
counsel acceptable to the Trustee, or if the Trustee so requests, a certificate 
satisfactory to the Trustee of a competent official of the Recipient showing that the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement entered into between the Recipient and the Federation has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the parties to it in 
accordance with the terms of such agreement.
Section 5.03.  (a)  Except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall enter into effect on the date on which the 
Trustee dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence furnished 
to the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would 
have entitled the Trustee to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account if the Trust Fund Grant Agreement had been effective, the 
Trustee may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section until such event or events shall have ceased to exist.
Section 5.04.  If the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not have entered into 
effect within ninety (90) days after the date of this Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Trustee, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall 
establish a later date for the purposes of this Section.  The Trustee shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
BH 71000 Sarajevo
Mehmeda Spahe No. 5
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Page  5
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ H. Muratovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   (Acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for 
   Bosnia and Herzegovina)
By /s/ J.F. Linn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocations of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
    Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under 
   1,600,000
100% (net of taxes)
Parts A and C.1 of 
the Project 
(2)
Goods under Parts
   2,850,000
100% of foreign 
A, B and C. 1 of
expenditures, 100% 
the Project
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ Services
     200,000
100%
and training under
Parts A, B and C.1
of the Project
Page  6
(4)
Incremental operating
      50,000
100% 
costs under Parts A, B
and C.1 of the Project 
 (5)
Unallocated
     300,000
TOTAL
   5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs incurred by the 
Federation MOE on account of the Project for staff salaries, office facilities, 
services, staff travel and consumable office supplies as may be agreed by the Trustee.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be made for Parts A, B and C.1 of the Project, on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after January 31, 1996.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent each except for the first three 
contracts awarded under Schedule 3, Section I, Parts B.3, B.4, B.5 and B.7 of this 
Agreement; (b) incremental operating costs; (c) contracts for employment of consulting 
firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; and (d) contracts for employment of 
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each, each under such terms 
and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Recipient in: (a) restoring the 
delivery of primary education during the 1996-97 school year; and (b) improving the 
capacity of the Federation MOE and RS MOE to manage the public education sector.
 The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Primary School Reconstruction
Refurbishment of about 72 primary schools, construction of about 5 replacement 
primary schools and provision of furniture and equipment to classrooms in about 77 
primary schools in the Federation.
Part B:
Books and Educational Material
Provision of textbooks and supplementary readers for primary and secondary 
education and educational materials packages for primary schools in the Federation.
Part C:
Project Implementation and Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of the Federation MOE for the implementation of 
the Project through the provision of equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and 
training.
2.
Strengthening of the capacity of the RS MOE for the implementation of the 
Project through the provision of equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and 
training.
Page  7
Part D:  Project Preparation and Pilot Implementation in Republika Srpska
Provision of works, consultants’ services and equipment to assess the education 
reconstruction needs and prepare and implement pilot education reconstruction 
activities including provision of textbooks, supplementary readers and educational 
material packages for primary schools in Republika Srpska.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Service
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.  In addition, the list of suppliers shall be derived from, inter alia, 
the expressions of interest received in response to the GPN.  Bidding documents may 
provide that the bidders can send their bids by fax, in which case bid security shall 
not be required, subject to the satisfaction of the Trustee that mechanisms to ensure 
confidentiality of bids received by fax are in place.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the following modifications:
(i)
General prequalification will be carried out through advertising 
in the local press.  The list of prequalified bidders will be 
updated from time to time as a result of new expression of 
interest and information submitted by qualified contractors;
(ii)
prequalified bidders will be allowed a minimum of four (4) weeks 
to submit their bids;
(iii)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the National 
Competitive Bidding documents agreed with the Trustee;
(iv)
if interested, foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
(v)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
hand-carried bids will be accepted;
(vi)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
(vii)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(viii)bidders will not be asked, nor allowed to change the substance of 
their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with 
the lowest evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed 
in the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 per contract, may be procured under 
lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
Page  8
qualified contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
4.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent but less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using standard documentation agreed with the Trustee.
5.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
6.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
7.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account, in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
8.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods may be procured from UN agencies such as FAO, ILO, UNICEF and WHO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.  
Part C:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
to Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part B.1, B.6 and B.7 of this Schedule; (ii) the 
prequalification criteria and documentation to be included in the invitation to 
prequalify under Section I, Part B.2  of this Schedule; (iii) the first three 
contracts awarded under each of  Section I, Parts B.3, B.4, B.5 and B.8, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Recipients and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Trustee, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee.  Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Trustee, other 
Page  9
standard forms acceptable to the Trustee shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Trustee review shall not apply to (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee, 
or (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Federation shall establish and thereafter maintain for purposes of  Parts A, 
B and C.1 of the Project a PCU under terms of reference and with staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Trustee.  The PCU shall be headed by a coordinator and 
shall have overall responsibility for the management and coordination of Parts A, B 
and C.1 of the Project.
2.           The Federation shall, for purposes of Section 8.06 of the General 
Conditions, and without limitation thereto:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Federation and the Trustee, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project, and 
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Federation on said plan.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
Page  10
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of any outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  11
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
General Conditions 
ARTICLE I
Application to Trust Fund Grant Agreement
Section 1.01.  Application of General Conditions.  Without limitation or 
restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions applicable to 
the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Definitions; Headings
Section 2.01.  Definitions.  The following terms have the following meanings 
wherever used in these General Conditions:
(a)
"Trustee" means the International Development Association acting as 
trustee of the Trust Fund.
(b)
"Association" means the International Development Association.
(c)
"Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
(d)
"Trust Fund Grant Agreement" means this Trust Fund Grant Agreement to 
which these General Conditions are made applicable.
(e)
"Grant" means the Grant provided for in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(f)
"Recipient" means Bosnia and Herzegovina.
 
(g)
"Currency" of a country means the coin or currency which is legal tender 
for the payment of public and private debts in that country.
(h)
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America.
(i)
"Grant Account" means the account opened by the Trustee on its books in 
the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited.
(j)
"Project" means the project for which the Grant is made available, as 
described in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and as the description thereof may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Trustee.
(k)
"Effective Date" means the date on which the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
shall enter into effect as provided in Section 12.03.
(l)
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether 
in effect at the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement or thereafter imposed.
(m)
"Closing Date" means the date specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
(as it may be extended) after which the Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient, 
terminate the right of the Recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
Section 2.02.  References.  References in these General Conditions to Articles 
or Sections are to Articles or Sections of these General Conditions.
Section 2.03.  Headings.  The headings of the Articles and Sections are inserted 
for convenience of reference only and are not a part of these General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Grant Account
Section 3.01.  Grant Account.  The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the 
Grant Account and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in the Trust 
Page  12
Fund Grant Agreement and in these General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Currency Provisions
Section 4.01.  Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be made.  Except as the 
Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall be made in the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable; provided, however, 
that withdrawals in respect of expenditures in the currency of the Recipient shall be 
made in such currency or currencies as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably 
select.
Section 4.02.  Valuation of Currencies.  Whenever it shall be necessary for the 
purposes of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement to determine the value of one currency in 
terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Trustee.
ARTICLE V
Withdrawal of Proceeds of Grant
Section 5.01.  Withdrawal from the Grant Account.  The Recipient shall be 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts expended or, if the Trustee shall 
so agree, amounts to be expended for the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and of these General Conditions.  Except as the 
Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Trustee, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
Section 5.02.  Special Commitments by the Trustee.  Upon the Recipient's request 
and upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed upon between the Recipient and 
the Trustee, the Trustee may enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts 
to the Recipient or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by the 
Trustee or the Recipient.
Section 5.03.  Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment.  When the 
Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account or to request the 
Trustee to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02, the Recipient 
shall deliver to the Trustee a written application in such form, and containing such 
statements and agreements, as the Trustee shall reasonably request.  Applications for 
withdrawal, including the documentation required pursuant to this Article, shall be 
made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
Section 5.04.  Reallocation.  Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the 
Grant or the percentages for withdrawal set forth or referred to in the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement, if the Trustee has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant 
then allocated to any withdrawal category set forth in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
or added thereto by amendment will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of 
all expenditures in that category, the Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient:
(a) 
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and 
which in the opinion of the Trustee are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(b) 
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 5.05.  Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal.  The 
Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee evidence of the authority of the person or 
persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the authenticated specimen 
signature of any such person.
Section 5.06.  Supporting Evidence.  The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence in support of the application as the Trustee shall 
Page  13
reasonably request, whether before or after the Trustee shall have permitted any 
withdrawal requested in the application.
Section 5.07.  Sufficiency of Applications and Documents.  Each application and 
the accompanying documents and other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance 
to satisfy the Trustee that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw from the Grant 
Account the amount applied for and that the amount to be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account is to be used only for the purposes specified in the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement.
Section 5.08.  Treatment of Taxes.  It is the policy of the Trustee that no 
proceeds of the Grant shall be withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of, the Recipient on goods or services, or on the importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.  To that end, if the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
decreases or increases, the Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or 
decrease the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such 
item in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy 
of the Trustee.
Section 5.09.  Payment by the Trustee.  The Trustee shall pay the amounts 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the 
Recipient.
ARTICLE VI
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01.  Cancellation by the Recipient.  The Recipient may, by notice to 
the Trustee, cancel any amount of the Grant which the Recipient shall not have 
withdrawn, except that the Recipient may not so cancel any amount of the Grant in 
respect of which the Trustee shall have entered into a special commitment pursuant to 
Section 5.02.
Section 6.02.  Suspension by the Trustee.  If any of the following events of 
suspension shall have occurred and be continuing, the Trustee may, by notice to the 
Recipient, suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the fact 
that such payment may have been made by a third party) of principal, interest, service 
charges or any other amount due to the Trustee, the Trustee or the Bank: (i) under any 
other trust fund grant agreement between the Recipient and the Trustee, (ii) under any 
development credit agreement between the Recipient and the Trustee, or (iii) under any 
loan or guarantee agreement between the Recipient and the Bank.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any other obligation under the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(c)
The Trustee, the Association or the Bank shall have suspended in whole or 
in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any trust fund credit 
agreement with the Trustee, any development credit agreement with the Trustee or any 
loan agreement with the Bank, because of a failure by the Recipient to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient shall: (i) have been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Bank, or (ii) have ceased to be a member of the International 
Monetary Fund.
(f)
After the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and prior to the 
Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would have entitled the Trustee to 
suspend the Recipient's right to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement had been effective on the date such event occurred.
(g)
A representation made by the Recipient, in or pursuant to the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to 
be relied upon by the Trustee in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any 
Page  14
material respect.
(h)
Any other event specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement for the 
purposes of this Section shall have occurred.
The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall 
continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event or 
events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, unless the Trustee 
shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make withdrawals has been restored 
in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Trustee.  If (a) the right of the Recipient 
to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended with respect to 
any amount of the Grant for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, 
the Trustee determines, after consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the 
Grant will not be required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, or (c) at any time, the Trustee determines that the procurement 
of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such 
item which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, or (d) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn 
from the Grant Account, the Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Grant shall be canceled.  
Section 6.04.  Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by 
Cancellation or Suspension by the Trustee.  No cancellation or suspension by the 
Trustee shall apply to amounts subject to any special commitment entered into by the 
Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 except as expressly provided in such commitment.
Section 6.05.  Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation.  
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically 
provided in this Article.
ARTICLE VII
Taxes
Section 7.01.  Taxes  The Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and any other agreement to 
which these General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on or in connection with the execution, delivery or 
registration thereof.
ARTICLE VIII
Cooperation and Information; Financial and Economic Data;
Project Implementation
Section 8.01.  Cooperation and Information.  (a) The Recipient and the Trustee 
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Grant will be accomplished.  
To that end, the Recipient and the Trustee shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views with regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes of 
the Grant, and the performance of their respective obligations 
under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and furnish to the other 
party all such information related thereto as it shall reasonably 
request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, 
or threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in 
paragraph (i) above.
(b) 
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives 
of the Trustee to visit any site for purposes related to the Grant.
Section 8.02.  Insurance.  The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or 
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation.  Any indemnity for such 
insurance shall be payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such 
Page  15
goods.
Section 8.03.  Use of Goods and Services.  Except as the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 8.04.  Plans and Schedules.  The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be 
furnished, to the Trustee promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, 
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the 
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail 
as the Trustee shall reasonably request.
Section 8.05.  Records and Reports.  (a) The Recipient shall: (i) maintain 
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the 
Project; (ii) within its capacity, enable the Trustee's representatives to visit any 
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and any plants, installations, sites, works, 
buildings, property, equipment, records and documents relevant to the performance of 
the obligations of the Recipient under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and (iii) 
furnish to the Trustee at regular intervals all such information as the Trustee shall 
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the 
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Grant and the 
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) 
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant, the Trustee may publish a description thereof, the name 
and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Recipient and the Trustee, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Trustee a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Trustee of their respective obligations under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 8.06.  Maintenance.  The Recipient shall at all times operate and 
maintain, or cause to be operated and maintained, any facilities relevant to the 
Project, and promptly as needed, make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof.
ARTICLE IX
Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 9.01.  Enforceability.  The rights and obligations of the Recipient and 
the Trustee under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in 
accordance with their terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political 
subdivision thereof to the contrary.  Neither the Recipient nor the Trustee shall be 
entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision 
of these General Conditions or the Trust Fund Grant Agreement is invalid or 
unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Trustee or 
any document or instrument constituting the Trust Fund.  
  Section 9.02.  Failure to Exercise Rights.  No delay in exercising, or 
omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to either party under the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power or 
remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default.  No 
action of such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any 
default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of 
any other or subsequent default.
Section 9.03.  Arbitration.  (a) Any controversy between the parties to the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement and any claim by either such party against the other 
arising under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement which has not been settled by agreement 
of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as 
hereinafter provided.
(b) 
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Trustee and the Recipient.
Page  16
(c) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Trustee; a second arbitrator shall 
be appointed by the Recipient; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called 
the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not 
agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment 
by said President, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.  If either of the 
parties shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the 
Umpire.  In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall 
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the 
same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and 
such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d) 
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party.  Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the 
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding.  Within thirty days 
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e) 
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire.  Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure.  All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing.  Such award may be rendered by default.  An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal.  A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party.  Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
and binding upon the parties to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.  Each party shall 
abide by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section.
(i) 
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings.  If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances.  Each party shall defray its own expenses in the 
arbitration proceedings.  The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between 
and borne equally by the parties.  Any question concerning the division of the costs 
of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be 
determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j) 
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement or of any claims by either party against the other party 
arising thereunder.
(k) 
The Trustee shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the Recipient 
upon the award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or to pursue 
any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award, except as 
such procedure may be available against the Recipient otherwise than by reason of the 
provisions of this Section.  If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award 
shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with by the 
Trustee, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement of the award 
against the Trustee.
(l) 
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 10.01.  The 
parties to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the 
service of any such notice or process.
Page  17
ARTICLE X
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 10.01.  Notices and Requests.  Any notice or request required or 
permitted to be given or made under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and any other 
agreement between the parties contemplated by the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall be 
in writing.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 11.03, such notice or request 
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or 
by mail, telegram, cable or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to 
be given or made at such party's address specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party 
giving such notice or making such request.
Section 10.02.  Evidence of Authority.  The Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons who will, on 
behalf of the Recipient, take any action or execute any documents required or 
permitted to be taken or executed by the Recipient under the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 10.03.  Action on Behalf of the Recipient.  Any action required or 
permitted to be taken, and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under 
the Trust Fund Grant Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken or executed by 
the representative of the Recipient designated in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative.  Any modification or amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument 
executed on behalf of the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person 
thereunto authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion 
of such representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the 
circumstances and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient 
under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.  The Trustee may accept the execution by such 
representative or other person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in 
the opinion of such representative any modification or amplification of the provisions 
of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement effected by such instrument is reasonable in the 
circumstances and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient 
thereunder.
Section 10.04.  Execution in Counterparts.  The Trust Fund Grant Agreement may  
be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
