Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 25714
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3744-KZ)
April 7, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
(Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2001)
Currency Unit = Kazakhstan Tenge (KZT)
US$ 1 = 146 KZT
Abbreviations and Acronyms
GoK          Government of the Kazakhstan
lOCs         Intemational oil companies
TCA          Technical Cooperation Agreement
PL           Petroleum Law
PRC          Petroleum Revenue Code
TAP          Technical Assistance Project
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
PTAP         Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
MEFR         Ministry of Energy and Fuel Resources
KSC          KazakhstanCaspiShelf
JVA          Joint venture agreements
PITC         Petroleum Industry Training Center
EU TACIS     European Union Technical Assistance
Measures and Equivalents
One barrel                = about 0.16 cubic meter
One cubic foot            = 0.028 cubic meter
One cubic meter           = 37.3 cubic feet
1000 cubic meter natural gas = 34800 Mjoules
1000 cubic meter natural gas = 0.83 Ton Oil Equivalent
one ton oil               = approximately 7.2 barrels (Kazakhstan's oil average
density)
Fiscal Year
Government:         January 1 to December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation          Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department (Acting)  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation          Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                     Mr. Andres Liebenthal



The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
USA
GREGORY K INGRAM
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 7, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Assessment Report on Kazakhstan
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project (Loan No. 3744-KZ)
Attached is the PPAR on the Ukraine Petroleum Technical Assistance Project (PTAP). The
project was supported by a loan of $15.7 million, which became effective on September 8,
1995, and was closed on March 31, 2000; a total of $2.34 million was cancelled.
The energy sector was a central element in the strategy of the Bank and the Government
of Kazakhstan to restore the country's economy. However, developing the country's huge
base of discovered but undeveloped oil and gas fields required a major inflow of capital
and technology, which could only be provided by direct foreign investment. The Bank
had been assisting the government to establish a legislative, regulatory, and taxation
environment that would attract foreign investments into the sector since it started to assist
Kazakhstan in 1992, first through the Technical Cooperation Program, and subsequently
through a Technical Assistance Loan. The PTAP was designed to focus on attracting
foreign investment to the sector by completing critical sector legislation, and supporting
efforts to complete negotiations with foreign investors on the development of major fields
and attracting further foreign investment by commercializing and privatizing other oil
fields. The project was also intended to promote the efficiency and long-term financial
viability of the petroleum sector by attracting foreign investment and helping to formulate
economically sound investment and organizational strategies for the integration of
domestic primary petroleum production, processing, transport, and distribution activities.
The design of the project was highly relevant to the needs of the country at the time. The
government could not afford to develop these important resources by itself. Furthermore,
its own sector institutions needed substantial upgrading in the skills necessary to provide
efficient support for and monitoring of private sector petroleum activities.
Project outcome was moderately satisfactory. The results were mixed, but significant
benefits did accrue. The implementing legislation for the petroleum sector was
established, but the legislative framework for sector taxation policy designed under the
project was only partially implemented. While the technical assistance for completing the
negotiations for the major concession areas was successful, the Bank's input into this
activity was marginal: it took over the payment of consultants under ongoing contracts,
which the government would have continued to pay in the absence of the Bank project.
While some of the other project components were successes, notably the petroleum
training center, and some of the studies were helpful (the oil pipeline study), other major
project components were not completed, including the privatization of Uzenmunaigas
and the establishment of a sector-level information system for Kazakhoil.



The project had a substantial impact on institutional development. The legal and
regulatory framework for the petroleum sector was significantly improved, and the
improvements provided the basis for the greatly expanded foreign investment in the
sector that has taken place over the past five years.
Sustainabiity of the anticipated benefits is likely. There are a large number of oil
companies in Kazakhstan-more than 30 foreign oil companies were operating in
Kazakhstan at last count-and the institutional framework is adequate for them to remain
and continue to explore and develop new oilfields.
Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. The borrower was fully supportive of the
technical assistance provided for negotiating the major ventures. It was also supportive of the
initial efforts to privatize Uzenmunaigas. However, the process was far from transparent and
eventually got sidetracked by the promise of a highly speculative oil export pipeline to China
During this period, the petroleum sector went through several major reorganizations.
Changes in senior management of the sector made it difficult to maintain a consistent outlook
toward the project's primary objectives. By the time the China pipeline fell through, the
government was no longer interested in pursuing the privatization option. New management
in the successor implementing agency cancelled the integrated geoinformation and electric
documentation management system without discussing it with Bank staff. The government
has yet to act on the recommendations of the gas transport and utilization study.
Bank performance was satisfactory. The quality of supervision is judged to have been
satisfactory, as was the quality of project preparation. The Bank made every effort to
support the needs of the borrower while maintaining the objectives of the project. It spent
considerable time and effort in reviewing the offers for privatization of Uzenmunaigas,
including a full critique of the difficulties inherent in the government's decision to establish
a joint venture for the Uzen oilfield separately from the privatiiation of Uzenmunaigas.
Experience with this project suggests the following lessons:
> Financing the continuing work of contract advisors who are already advising the
government is a questionable practice, since it makes it extremely difficult for the
Bank to fulfill its quality control function. Bank funding should primarily support
activities when the Bank can contribute to the success of these activities, if in no
other way than by reviewing the reports and recommendations of the consultants.
>  The contracts that were negotiated with legal advice from advisors financed by the
Bank remain confidential documents. The Bank should make every effort to get
governments to agree to make public the basic financial elements of agreements and
contracts that are negotiated with foreign companies. Public review of such contracts
is the best way to establish transparency and accountability in dealing with the
exploitation of national resources such as oil. In particular, the Bank should only
provide technical assistance for the negotiating of contracts that are intended to
become part of the public domain (at least in their broad terms).
Attachment                                         /6Z         <2.5*



i
OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluabon Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integnty of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to venfy that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the disseminabon of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examined project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a retum higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ................v
Key Staff Responsible ................v
Preface ...                                                                                   vii
Country Sector Background ................................1
Energy and the Environment ................................1
Sector Concerns ...............................2
Role of the Bank ...............................3
Previous Sector-Related Operations ................................3
The Project ...............................4
Project Components ................................4
Implementation ................................5
Individual Project Components ...............................5
Project Results ..............................                                                11
Borrower Performance ..............................                                           16
Lessons and Recommendations ..............................                                    17
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ...............................                                     18
Annex B. Borrower Comments ...............................                                     21
This report was prepared by Richard Bemey (consultant) under the supervision of Andres Liebenthal (task
manager). The report was edited by William Hurlbut; Soon-Won Pak provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR                      ES                      PPAR
Outcome                    Satisfactory             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability             Highly Likely              Likely                   Likely
Institutional              Substantial              Substantial               Substantial
Development Impact
Bank Performance           Satisfactory             Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Borrower                   Satisfactory             Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                       Country Director         Division Chief!            Task
Sector Director      Manager/Leader
Appraisal                       Yukon Huang            Jonathan Brown       Yusupha Crookes
Completion                     Kiyoshi Kodera          Peter Thomson          Helen Syms






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Kazakhstan
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project. The loan was approved for $15.7 million on
August 15, 1993, and became effective on September 8, 1995. The loan closed on March
31, 2000 and $2.36 million was cancelled.
The PPAR presents the findings of a mission to Kazakhstan June 24 to July 5,
2002, by the World Bank Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The mission
gathered data and interviewed officials of the Government of Kazakhstan, the relevant
ministries, Kazakhoil, Uzenmunaigas, private sector oil companies, and staff of the
project and the Bank. The cooperation and assistance of all the stakeholders, the
government officials, and the officials of oil sector institutions is gratefully
acknowledged. The PPAR draws on the Memorandum and Recommendations of the
President and associated Technical Annex (Report No. P-6178-EZ, May 5, 1994), the
Implementation Completion Report (Report No. 19988, June 15, 2000), and other related
documents.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the
borrower for comments before being finalized. The comments received are included as
Annex B to this report.






COUNTRY SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.    The energy sector is central to the process of transforming Kazakhstan's
economy, and structural reforms in the sector are a sine qua non for reform of the
industrial sector. In 1995, the energy sector accounted for an estimated 32 percent of
industrial output, 30 percent of industrial employment, and 8 percent of formal
employment in the economy. The sector was in severe financial straits in the early 1990s,
and was being progressively decapitalized by the effects of low domestic energy prices;
low prices, largely unrelated to world market levels, for exports to the country's
traditional markets; major transport constraints on the country's ability to diversify export
markets; and inadequate pressures and incentives for organizations to be commercial.
Crude oil and condensate production in 1995 had fallen by about 23 percent from a peak
of 27 million tons in 1991, mostly as a result of increasing backlogs in the workover of
wells as a result of the straitened financial condition of the oil enterprises. Most of the
decline in oil production has been absorbed by reductions in exports.
2.    The petroleum sector, particularly the oil subsector, was (and still is) Kazakhstan's
most promising source of exports and economic growth in the medium term. Oil exports
were about 40 percent of the country's total exports in 1994. It was believed that, given the
currently level of sector productivity, plus the current pipeline of approved foreign
investments in the sector, oil production could feasibly be doubled by 2003 from under 1
percent of proven reserves (17 million tons in 1995) to close to 2 percent of proven reserves
(40 million tons per year). This increase in production would enable net crude oil exports to
increase from the 1995 level of 5 million tons per year to about 25 million tons per year.
3.    The implications of such an increase in exports for the economy are enormous: oil
export revenues would increase by US$2.0 billion and incremental government fiscal
revenues would amount to around US$800 million per annum, equivalent to about 35
percent of the government's 1995 budget. However, realizing this potential would require
stabilizing production from existing fields and creating the transport capacity to export oil
to markets with world market-related oil prices. The energy sector was the only sector with
good prospects for attracting foreign investments, provided that an appropriate framework
of laws and regulations could be put in place.
4.    During the 18 months before implementation of the Petroleum Technical
Assistance Project (Ln. 3744), the government had made great progress in formulating
policies to address most of the sector's critical issues. The key policy measures already in
place and the outstanding issues for further action are described below.
Energy and the Environment
5.    Energy production and supply activities in Kazakhstan are characterized by many
environmentally unsound practices, including, significantly:
* Environmental controls are lacking or ineffectual in coal and uranium mining;
* Oil production involves extensive and wasteful flaring of associated gas,
widespread spillage of oil, and improper disposal of produced fluids; and



2
o Power generation involves the large-scale use of high-ash and low-grade coal and
large volumes of ash handling and disposal without adequate emission control
systems.
6.    Kazakhstan, like most of the countries of the former Soviet Union, is
characterized by highly intensive and inefficient energy use. Domestic consumption of
energy was about 25 percent greater than that in the major economies of Western Europe
with per capita incomes about four times greater than Kazakhstan's. The scope for
rationalizing energy use was, and still is, great, and the government, supported by a
number of bilateral agencies, has started on a comprehensive program of energy audits
and conservation promotion. The absence of financial incentives for the efficient use of
energy, and the concomitant widespread use of energy inefficient and obsolete
technologies in industry, coupled with the priority given to heavy and energy-intensive
industries, resulted in an energy production strategy that contributed both to the wasteful
use of key energy resources and to their accelerated depletion.
7.    Reversing this legacy of environmental degradation will require significant
investments to remediate past environmental damage and to reduce future damage. It will
also require price reforms to promote the efficient use and production of energy
resources, strengthening of environmental standards, and implementation of systems for
monitoring and promoting compliance with those standards.
Sector Concerns
8.    The energy sector was a central element in the strategy of the Bank and the
government to restore the country's productive capacity. The efficient and secure
production and supply of energy from the huge base of discovered but undeveloped oil
and gas fields was seen as critical to economic recovery and export growth.
Implementing this resource development program required a huge inflow of capital and
technology, which could only be provided by direct foreign investment by major
intemational oil companies (IOCs). Extemal interest in the petroleum sector of
Kazakhstan was high in the early 1990s, but investors were being deterred by
considerable delays in concluding contracts, in gaining government approval for those
contracts, and in implementing the investment program envisaged once all approvals had
been obtained. The main factors behind these delays were:
o  The absence of a coherent petroleum legal and contractual framework for
petroleum operations;
o  The lack of a clear taxation regime for petroleum operations, particularly
provisions for taxation of potential profits in excess of adequate rates of retum to
investment in sector operations;
o  The relative complexity of participation terms and structures offered by potential
investors in relation to the limited (but growing) domestic capacity and
experience in evaluating and approving investment proposals; and
o  Investor uncertainties about potential access to transport facilities for export of
crude oil and natural gas to international markets.



3
Role of the Bank
9.    The World Bank started working with the Government of Kazakhstan (GoK) even
before it became a member of the World Bank on July 1, 1992. This earliest work
concerned the Economic Advisory Services that the Bank was to provide under the
Technical Cooperation Agreement (TCA) that had originally been signed with the Soviet
Union in November 1991. During these discussions, the government made it clear that it
considered revitalization of Kazakhstan's petroleum exploration and production sector to
be critical to the country's overall economic recovery. A TCA project document was
signed on April 30, 1992, under which the Bank undertook to provide specialized, expert
assistance to the GoK for the preparation of, and, to the extent feasible, the subsequent
enactment of, modem petroleum legislation designed to attract significant new foreign
investment into the sector and to protect the interests of GoK and its enterprises in the
development of this vital natural resource. The TCA included three clearly identified
tasks in the petroleum sector:
1. Petroleum Legislation: together with GoK counterparts, prepare a legislative
package to address the key elements of an investment framework for petroleum
exploration and production, including a draft Petroleum Law (PL), draft model
agreements/contracts (MC) governing the relationship between the GoK and
petroleum sector investors, and a draft Petroleum Revenue Code (PRC) for
petroleum operations.
2. Institutional Development: recommend changes needed in the existing institutional
structure needed to meet the challenges of a market economy, and suggest an
appropriate program of petroleum enterprise reform.
3. Training: provide specialized training to GoK counterparts in petroleum legal,
contractual, and economic matters and in the conduct of petroleum agreement
negotiations with IOCs.
Previous Sector-Related Operations
10.   The GoK implemented many of the proposed reforms in conjunction with the
Bank-supported Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3900-KZ; board date August 3, 1993;
effectiveness date December 22, 1993), which provided US$13.4 million for technical
assistance related to privatization and private sector development. The reform legislation
supported under that loan resulted in (i) formal liberalization of crude oil and petroleum
products pricing and trade, (ii) dissolution of the state-owned monopoly wholesale and
retail distributor of petroleum products, and (iii) privatization of all petroleum-related
retail distribution activities. The drafting of a tax code for petroleum and minerals was
also initiated under this operation.
11.   In 1993, the Bank's technical assistance support shifted to the Technical
Assistance Project (TAP) (Loan 3642),' as the TCA program began to wind down. The
objectives of the TAP were: (i) to provide assistance in the design and development of
the government's economic reform policies and programs; (ii) to build the institutional
1. Approved by the Board in August 1993.



4
capacity and skills base for implementing these reforms; and (iii) to initiate policy work
for development of key sectors of the economy. The project included two components
relevant to the petroleum sector. One supported formulating environmental priorities and
strengthening governmental capabilities in environmental review and audit. This included
the design and preparation of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The other
supported the ongoing development of policy, legal, and institutional frameworks for
promoting and regulating foreign investment. The focus was on very specific professional
issues (development of the standard incentive package, legislation on oil and subsoil use,
design of the political risk insurance scheme to promote foreign investments, and
professional training), as well as on supporting foreign investments in non-extracting
sectors. With the assistance provided under this project, the GoK revised the Law on Oil
and Law on Subsoil Use, establishing the basis for foreign investments in the extracting
sector, and created for foreign investors a standard bid information package that provided
more transparency in the decision-making process. Many of these activities, which were
unfinished in 1995, were subsequently transferred to the Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project (PTAP), which is the subject of this PPAR.
TBE PROJECT
12.   As defined in the Memorandum of the President, the objectives of the US$15.7
million technical assistance project were to assist the government to strengthen the
capacity of key petroleum subsector agencies to:
A. Attract foreign investment into the sector;
B. Promote the efficiency and long-term financial viability of the petroleum sector
industries; and
C. Formulate economically sound investment and organizational strategies for the
integration of domestic primary petroleum production, processing, transport, and
distribution.
14.   These strategic objectives were well aligned with the government's short- and
medium-term tactical goals. The short-term tactical goals were (i) to create a legal,
taxation, and institutional framework conducive to attracting foreign investment; and (ii)
to conclude negotiations for the development of new or partly developed fields and for
exploration of new areas. The medium-term tactical goals were (i) to promote
economically efficient investments in domestic petroleum processing, transport, and
distribution; (ii) to create efficient and adequate transport access to international markets
for its oil production; and (iii) to develop domestic capacity to manage the sector and its
enterprises on an efficiently commercial basis.
Project Components
15.   The project components included advisory services (US 1.2 million), studies
(US 1.8 million), and training (US$3.3 million).
o Under objective A, advisory services were to be provided to (i) support the
formulation and implementation of petroleum-related legislation, including



5
revamping the petroleum taxation regime; (ii) review existing investment
proposals from potential foreign investors and assist with the negotiations for
foreign equity participation for these projects; and (iii) appraise and structure
selected new investment projects and assist with establishing foreign equity
participation in those projects. In addition, training programs helped develop
local skills needed to negotiate with foreign investors.
*  Under objective B, advisory services were used to (i) help develop and implement
a restructuring, commercialization, and privatization program for sector
enterprises; and (ii) strengthen the capabilities of the sector's major government
institutions; (iii) conduct afeasibility study for an infrastructure and operations
base to support foreign exploration and production activities in the Caspian Sea;
and (iv) establish a training institution to provided courses in all technical and
managerial areas of sector development.
*  Under objective C, feasibility studies were to be implemented to evaluate
alternative pipeline transport systems for (i) domestic crude oil and oil products;
and (ii) natural gas distribution.
Implementation
16.   The project components were well designed to address the main focus of both
Bank and GoK priorities for the sector. The main risks identified at appraisal were, first,
the risk of implementation delays due to inexperience in project management, and
second, the risk of failure of government agencies to accept that investment decisions
should be made on primarily economic and commercial grounds.
17.   The loan was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on June 2, 1994.
Effectiveness was greatly delayed, primarily because the Bank had insisted that the GoK
agree to and submit a sector-restructuring plan as a condition of effectiveness. The
Ministry of Energy and Fuel Resources (MEFR) was expected to do this within 60 days
of Board Approval, but reaching internal consensus on a specific proposal proved
impossible within this time period, forcing a delay in project effectiveness. The MEFR
decided against creating a dedicated PIU, and instead took this responsibility within the
Office of the Minister. When the minister changed, responsibility for project
implementation was allocated to several of the departments in MEFR. The lack of a
staffed, dedicated PIU meant that there was no group to provide a full-time interest in and
focus on putting together a politically acceptable restructuring program. Further delay
was an inevitable result. The project was eventually made effective on September 8,
1995, more than a year behind schedule. During the delay there were several changes in
leadership and staffing at the MEFR, as well as at most of the other agencies with
significant interest in implementing the project. As a result, tasks managers had to
repeatedly reestablish a common understanding of the project's aims and objectives with
each new set of government officials.
Individual Project Components
18.   Supportfor establishing petroleum legislation [A(i)]: The project was initially
supposed to support technical assistance for finalizing the Petroleum Law. This work,



6
which was already being supported under the TCP loan, was to be transferred to the
PTAP. However, all the work on the law was completed before the loan was made
effective. The petroleum law was presented to parliament in mid-1995, and became
effective in January 1996 through a Presidential Decree with Force of Law adopted while
parliament was out of session. This law was a milestone. It was the first modem
framework legislation for enabling foreign investment in the petroleum sector in the
Former Soviet Union, and it laid the foundation for the subsequent rapid rise in oil sector
foreign investment and, subsequently in oil production.
19.   The PTAP did, however, finance technical assistance for writing the critical
supporting regulations and instructions needed to make the most important parts of the
law operational. Ten decrees with supporting regulations were promulgated in 1996. In
1999, the GoK revised the petroleum law in ways that establish barriers for future foreign
investment. These changes have negated somewhat the benefits of the previous
legislation. The most significant change was the canceling of all international arbitration
clauses, and their replacement with a requirement that all contract disputes be resolved in
Kazakhstan courts. Petroleum enterprises that were already implementing their
development programs undoubtedly will continue their planned investment programs.
However, the 1999 code revisions are likely to increase significantly the perceived risk of
investing in Kazakhstan, and this higher risk profile will likely be reflected in the terms
that these companies are willing to offer for future PSAs. Notwithstanding the changes in
the petroleum code, foreign investment in the sector rose dramatically from 1996 through
2000, as the table below shows: the overall impact of the Bank's technical assistance
efforts in this area is judged highly satisfactory.
Year                      1994   1995   1996    1997   1998   1999    2000
FDI Oil ($Millions)       556     291    210    641     507    1373   1958
20.   Support for preparing taxation legislation [A(i)]: Tax regulations and accounting
provisions were designed for several model contracts in order to maximize the benefits to
Kazakhstan while minimizing the total worldwide tax liabilities of the oil companies, and
enabling legislation was drafted to implement these provisions. However, the government
decided to not implement these legislative proposals. While the GoK did include some of
the recommendations in subsequent legislation, this was done in a piecemeal fashion and
the overall impact has been marginal. Therefore, the impact of this major technical
assistance component has been marginal.
21.   Support for negotiations with international oil companies [A(ii)]: The GoK
requested that the Bank support a continuation of legal advisory services needed to
support negotiations on several extremely large and important investment transactions,
including the Karachaganak offshore gas/gas condensate project and the
KazakhstanCaspiShelf Consortium offshore geophysical exploration project. In both
cases, advisors had been assisting the GoK in its negotiations since 1992. While the Bank
originally proposed that the contracts be awarded by competitive tender, it eventually
agreed with the government that changing advisors in the middle of these complex
negotiations would be highly inefficient and disruptive. The Bank therefore agreed to
finance the continuation of existing contracts on a direct tender basis.



7
22.   The negotiations for the Karachaganak field and the Caspian Shelf were
successfully completed. Karachaganak is the largest gas/gas condensate field in
Kazakhstan. The joint venture involves a consortium of IOCs, including Agip, BP,
Lukoil, and Texaco. The first phase of the new development program is expected to
require a peak workforce of 14,000, of which 10,000 will be Kazakhstani. Upon
completion, production is projected to reach 10.4 million tons per annum of condensate-
the produced gas is to be reinjected into the field. For the Caspian Shelf,
KazakhstanCaspiShelf OJSC (KSC), a State-owned geophysical company, formed a
consortium with Agip, BP, Mobile, Shell, Statoil, Total, to implement a seismic survey
covering the entire Kazakhstan sector of the Caspian Sea. The survey was successfully
completed at a cost more than US$200 million and is expected to lead to substantial new
offshore exploration ventures by members of the consortium.
23.   The two projects have the potential for generating more than US$30 billion in new
investment, and substantially more in new oil production. However, OED is unable to
judge the effectiveness of the consultant or the appropriateness of the final agreements,
since these agreements have been kept strictly confidential between the GoK and the
companies involved. While both the government and the IOCs involved in the transactions
claim that all appropriate environmental standards have been applied to the operation,
verification is not possible. The outcome of this component is judged highly satisfactory.
However, the Bank made only a minimal contribution to the process and the results. Thus,
while the relevance of the activity to Kazakhstan's development was substantial, the
relevance of the Bank's support to the achievement of the results was negligible. If Bank
financing had been unavailable, the technical, financial, and negotiation support activities,
which had been ongoing for three years before the Bank took over the financing, would
have been continued in essentially the same manner until the contracts had been concluded.
24.   Later joint venture agreements (JVAs) were negotiated with other IOCs with
substantially less support from foreign advisors. However, the GoK's shares in a
significant number of these JVAs were subsequently handed over to other foreign
companies in negotiations that appeared to be far from transparent.2 The development
impact of these activities was minimal.
25.   Appraise and structure investment projects for tendering to foreign partners
[A(iii) & B(i)]. This component focused on the privatization of the Uzen oilfield, which,
at the time, was Kazakhstan's second-largest onshore oilfield (after Tengiz). Legal,
financial, and technical advisory services were provided to create the tender
documentation for the sale of a majority interest in the company to a strategic foreign
investor and for the evaluation of these tenders. The implementation of a process to
privatize Uzenmunaigas was considered an essential condition for the Bank moving
forward with the Uzen Oilfield Rehabilitation Pilot Project (Loan 4061).
2. In the 1997 deal, in which Hurricane Hydrocarbons purchased the Kumkol oilfields from Yuzhneftegas,
it also obtained GoK's interest in the Kazgermunai JV (in which IFC was an equity holder and lender), and
the Turgai Petroleum JV. There does not appear to have been a bidding process for these oilfields, and the
reasons for including these properties were never fully explained.



8
26.    The tender package and subsequent tender bid analysis prepared by the consultants
was not considered of high quality by the borrower. There were several problems,
including the lack of transparency and of a well-defined set of criteria for evaluating the
bids. It did not help that the GoK had been unable to provide any guarantees related to
access to facilities for export of produced oil. Three major international consortiums
responded, headed by Amoco, CNCP, and Petronas (Malaysia). As might be expected from
the weak framework provided by the tender documents, the bids were short on some
important details. They were characterized by Bank staff as proposals designed to obtain
the right to negotiate for the right to operate the field. The GoK and the Bank-financed
consultants found it very difficult to come to a consensus on which was the best bid.
27.    The process of choosing the bidder was far from transparent.3 The government
chose CNPC as the appropriate partner for the rehabilitation and further development of
the Uzen oilfield after CNPC added to its offer a promise to build a 3,200-kilometer oil
pipeline from West Kazakhstan, where the field was located, to Xinjiang Province in
Western China, at an estimated cost of at least US$3 billion.4 The General Agreement
linked the establishment of the joint venture to develop the Uzen field with the
development of the oil pipeline. This General Agreement left many critical issues to be
resolved by more specific detailed agreements. Most important, it cast a shadow over the
privatization of Uzenmunaigas, which was originally one of GoK's main objectives.5
After reviewing the costs and benefits that could come from the proposed oil pipeline,
CNPC appears to have decided that it was not economically viable, since it has yet to
make any significant move to implement it.
28.    This stalemate has been convenient for Uzenmunaigas and Kazmunaigas (the
government's apex petroleum institution),6 since as long as the General Agreement
remains in force, no further action can be undertaken for the privatization of
Uzenmunaigas. Now that the financial crisis in the petroleum sector has been eased by
3. At a minimum, the process to be used for judging the bids (including weights of various important
elements) should have been established at the time the bids were requested, and an explanation of how the
choice was made, based on this process, should have been made available to all bidders when the winner is
announced.
4. Conceptually, this was a highly dubious proposal, since Xinjiang province is 4,000 kilometers from any
major Chinese consumption center. There is no pipeline from Xianjiang, so the oil would have to be
transported most of the way to its final destination by rail.
5. The legal and economic dimensions of the privatization proposed under the General Agreement (GA) of
September 1997, which established the basic terms for the joint venture (JV), were substantially different from
GoK's original privatization objectives. In particular, it contemplated that Uzenmunaigas's primary asset, the
Uzen oilfield, would be contributed to the JV, and that Uzenmunaigas would enter into unspecified service
agreements with the JV. This GA would have transformed Uzenmunaigas from an oil-producing company to
a company that provided oilfield services and had a minority interest in a production joint venture. This new
hybrid structure would have severely constrained the privatization of the restructured Uzenmunaigas. The GA
provided only a broad framework for the JV, leaving unanswered issues concerning (i) the specific assets to
be taken over by the 1V; (ii) the impact of the secondment terms for Uzenmunaigas's labor force; (iii) the
legal obligations, if any, that Uzenmunaigas and the 1V would have for previous environmental liabilities.
6. Kazmunaigas is the successor to Kazakhoil and the other ministry institutions concerned with the
petroleum sector. It is both a holding company for State-owned oil resources and the institution responsible
for regulating the sector.



9
the substantial increase in oil prices from their 1997 and 1998 lows, Uzenmunaigas has
been able to obtain sufficient resources to begin the rehabilitation process itself. The
company claims that oil production will be 4.2 million tons in 2002, up from a low of 2.5
million tons in the late 1990s. As a result, Kazmunaigas has taken the position that there
is no longer any need to privatize this oilfield. The impact of the Bank's technical
assistance efforts in this area must therefore be considered highly unsatisfactory.
29.   Training [A (iv)]: Training on the principal elements of a legal and contractual
framework for petroleum operations and petroleum economics was first provided under
the TCP. Subsequent courses were supported under the TA project. The PTAP provided
training to Kazmunaigas and several government ministries on many of the same areas,
including petroleum economics, investment appraisal, and investment negotiations.
Feedback during supervision missions suggests that the courses were highly appreciated.
However, the rapid changeover of senior staff at Kazmunaigas makes it unlikely that
much of the newly acquired knowledge has been put to practical use. The assessment
mission was unable to meet with anyone who had taken the courses. Hence, there is no
way to judge how effective this training has been in strengthening the performance of
these institutions.
30.   Supportfor petroleum industry restructuring and corporatization [B(i)] was
provided through advisory services for writing legislation to redefine the roles of state
petroleum institutions.' When the oil and gas industry was restructured in 1995, the
originally defined project implementing entities ceased to exist and were replaced by 16
newly independent State-owned oil and gas entities. These entities were subsequently
unified under the holding company Kazakhoil. In 2002, a further reorganization
combined all the State's oil and gas entities (including Kazakhoil) into Kazmunaigas,
which now has subsidiaries that handle all of GoK's relations with foreign companies as
well as other subsidiaries that operate their own oilfields. The Bank has continued to
recommend that Kazmunaigas be separated into two totally independent entities, one that
is responsible for owning and operating oilfields (separately or as a participant in a joint
venture), and the other that is an independent regulator of the operations of all oil and gas
fields, independently of their ownership structure. The government has yet to concede
that an independent authority, without any financial incentive to favor one party over
another, is an essential element in a transparent regulatory environment. The outcome of
this component is therefore only moderately satisfactory.
31.   Under strengthening petroleum sector institutions [B (ii)] one project component
focused on efforts to help upgrade the capabilities of Kazakhoil, the government's major
oil holding company. An integrated geoinformation and electric documentation
management system was to be established for the collection, storage, and management of
Kazakhstan's oil-related geological and geophysical data. The project financed
consultants to study the status of the existing systems and develop a program for the
creation of a modern system, including the specification of hardware and software and
integrated systems needed for implementation. The consultant studies were completed,
but by that time, Kazakhoil had been restructured and the new senior management failed
to see the strategic importance of this component and subsequently dropped the
7. This work was initiated under the Technical Cooperation Project and transferred to the PTAP.



10
implementation program. The importance of this program will continue to grow in line
with the growth of Kazakhstan as a major petroleum-producing region. Another project
component was intended to provide assistance in establishing procedures and systems for
administration of contracts with foreign companies. This component was not
implemented. There is still no systematic organization for the administration of contracts
within Kazmunaigas. The outcome of these activities, to date, has been negligible.
32.   Activities to promote sector efficiency [B (iii)]. A feasibility study was
implemented to establish the financial potential of joint venture infrastructure and an
operations base to support the foreign Caspian Sea exploration and production operations.
This study was completed, and the investment programs associated with it appears to be
going forward. The environmental aspects of the project, which is to be developed in the
highly environmentally sensitive shallow water of the northern Caspian sea (the center of
a billion dollar a year fishing/caviar industry) was studied in detail, and recommendations
to minimize ecological impacts were included in project design specifications. Since the
investment program has yet to be implemented, it is not possible to evaluate the outcome.
33.   Pipeline feasibility studies [C(i)]: Two oil pipeline feasibility studies were to be
implemented, including a study on the technical and economic merits of petroleum
product pipelines versus rail transport; an economic feasibility and optimization of crude
oil pipelines; and the preparation of tender documents for engineering and construction of
pipelines that are approved. The only study actually carried out was an economic
evaluation of West Kazakhstan-Kumkol pipeline. It showed that it was not economically
viable, and the investment proposal was dropped. The GoK obtained grant financing from
USAID and other bilateral donors for three domestic transportation review studies, which
were subsequently dropped from the Bank project. Since this outcome helped to dissuade
the Government from an otherwise uneconomic investment, the outcome is satisfactory.
34.   National Petroleum Training Institute: The project provided equipment, materials,
and training services (including training of trainers) for the establishment of the
Petroleum Industry Training Center (PITC) in Almaty. PITC is now being used by all of
the country's petroleum institutions, public and private. Its efficacy and efficiency is
highly praised by both governmental institutions and international oil companies who use
it to train much of their local managerial and technical staff. PITC has received support
from European Union Technical Assistance (EU TACIS) and oil companies that use and
support its facilities. It now charges commercial fees for enrollment in its courses and has
become financial self-sufficient. In 1999, it established a Regional Training Center in
Atyrau, which was also financed under the project. The outcome of this component was
highly satisfactory. Its impact appears to have been substantial.
35.   The National Gas Investment Strategy Study [C(ii)], which was initially to be
financed under the project, was implemented in 1997 through the Bank's ESMAP technical
assistance program. The output was a substantial three-volume work that identified the
policy initiatives that needed to be implemented for the sector to regain its momentum. The
initiative for gas trading with Gasprom, which will bring gas to Kazakhstan's northeast is
currently under discussion. Other recommendations, which are as relevant today as when



11
the study was completed, do not appear to have been implemented. While the study was
successfully completed, its impact has been negligible.8
36.    Other activities: Late in 1998, the Bank agreed to finance a feasibility study for
the development and exploitation of hydrocarbon fields that Kazakhoil wanted to develop
on its own, without foreign participation.9 Kazakhoil felt that the development of these
fields could greatly strengthen its economic and production bases. The results of the
study appear to have been helpful to Kazakhoil. However, there was no clear justification
for the Bank supporting this work, since its purpose was to assist the national oil and gas
company to develop its own oilfields. It may have been justified at the time by the desire
to improve the sector efficiency [B(iii)], since it was used to establish field development
optimization programs. However, this component did not fit into any of the project's
technical assistance categories, all of which were clearly focused on assisting the
privatization of the sector. In addition, it was inconsistent with the Bank's guidelines for
the petroleum sector, which provide for assistance to profit-oriented activities by
government-owned enterprises only when they contribute to efforts to privatize those
enterprises. This component must, therefore be judged as highly unsatisfactory.
PROJECT RESULTS
Relevance: Were the project objectives right?
Relevance is the extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance
strategies and corporate goals. This assessment rates the project objectives as highly
relevant.
37.    Sector objectives: The project objectives were highly relevant. At the time the
project was designed the government ministries had no understanding of the legislative,
institutional, and taxation needs and expectations of IOCs, no experience negotiating with
these companies, no framework for privatizing State enterprises and selling State-owned
assets, and little grasp of the modern economic concepts that underlie rational economic
decision making for investments, in particular on such matters optimum choice of oil and
gas pipeline investments and long-term natural gas utilization strategies. The technical
assistance provided was extremely helpful to managers of Kazmunaigas (the restructured
Kazakhoil), the Ministry of Oil and Gas, and the national pipeline company, since these
were still struggling to develop an in-depth understanding of sector issues. The sectoral
objectives were, for the most part, satisfactorily met.
38.    Environmental objectives: This project was classified category "C". It probably
should have been classified as a category "B", because substantial aspects of the technical
8. This impact could be greatly enhanced if it were to be recirculated to the appropriate ministries and made
available to all relevant staff, not just to the most senior ministerial managers, who seem to move in and out
of the relevant ministries with excessive frequency.
9. Alibekmola, Kozhasay, and Urikhtau



12
assistance related to supporting the furtherance of physical investment projects."' This
would have provided the opportunity for the Board documentation to discuss and explain
how potential environmental concerns were being handled. This oversight did not affect
Bank performance, since Bank involvement in the sector was fully cognizant of the
environmental issues. The preceding TA project (Loan 3642) had already financed the
implementation of a major national environmental review. Under that project,
environmental priorities were formulated, a National Environmental Action Plan was
prepared, and governmental environmental review and audit capabilities were
strengthened. The PTAP under assessment here took into account environmental
considerations in each of the components with physical investment potential. Each of the
proposed feasibility studies included a review of potential environmental impacts and,
where investments were contemplated, on recommendations for environmental impact
mitigation. The project also helped finance the environmental review of the proposed
Uzen Oilfield Development project, which was subsequently financed by the Bank (Loan
4061). Environmental issues are also an integral part of the training program of the PITC.
The project's environmental objectives were satisfactorily met.
39.   Nevertheless, the long-term environmental impact of the rapid expansion of
petroleum production in Kazakhstan is still uncertain. The environmental operating
standards of IOCs are far stricter than those of the local companies during the Soviet and
recent post-Soviet eras, and the IOCs are being held to a much stricter level of
environmental performance than were national companies, so that the environmental
problems associated with the sector are generally declining. Nevertheless, there is always
the possibility of a significant accident on an offshore drilling platform in the Caspian
Sea, or involving the transport of this oil by ship in the Caspian Sea, the Black Sea, the
Marmara straits, or the Mediterranean. Any oil development projects involve an inherent
risk that a tanker accident could do extensive environmental damage.
40.   Social objectives: In the context of the privatization of Uzenmunaigas, there were
concerns about what would happen to the workers displaced when a more efficiency-
minded private company took over its operation. These concerns were addressed in the
privatization bidding process, where certain warranties were to be given by the winning
bidder. However, Uzenmunaigas was not privatized, so the issue became moot. The
project had no other direct social objectives.
41.   Macroeconomic objectives: The macroeconomic contribution of the project would
be to revitalize Kazakhstan's petroleum sector, which was anticipated to become the
country's main engine of economic growth.
10. The Environmental Assessment Source Book Update (April 1993) on Environmental Screening notes
that "while most technical assistance (TA) projects should fall into Category C, since they involve no
physical works, certain TA operations are designed to pave the way for major investments or privatization
(often in a particular sector). In such cases, it is appropriate to undertake a limited review of the
environmental institutional and regulatory framework for the sector and recommend improvements (as
needed). Category B is normally the correct classification for such projects."



13
Efficacy: Did the project achieve its stated objectives?
Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be
achieved, taking into account their relative importance. This assessment rates the
project's overall efficacy as substantial.
42.   Attracting foreign investment: On the most important objective, the project
provided effective assistance to GoK to strengthen the capacity of key petroleum
subsector agencies to attract foreign investment into the subsector. It financed the
continuation of technical, financial, and legal advisory services that were critical to the
conclusion of two major Caspian Sea projects. These contracts were signed and large-
scale investment programs are underway to exploit their oil and gas resources. Many
additional contracts were subsequently negotiated with foreign oil companies. By early
1996, there were 37 local and foreign members of the Kazakhstan Petroleum Association,
all active in oil and gas exploration and production, compared with fewer than a handful
of major companies that were negotiating contracts in 1993. On the negative side, the
effort to privatize Uzenmunaigas, the Kazakhstan's largest State-owned oil-producing
enterprise, and a centerpiece of the Bank-funded technical assistance program, failed to
produce any results. The efficacy of this project component is rated as high.
43.   Enhancing sector efficiency and financial viability: While the privatization
process did help GoK promote the efficiency and long-term financial viability of the
upstream oil and gas exploration and production activities, it failed to make any
contribution to promoting the efficiency and long-term financial viability of downstream
petroleum industries. Given that the upstream activities had a much greater value added
and were therefore of much greater importance for the economy as a whole than were the
downstream activities, the efficacy of this component is rated as substantial.
44.   Formulating sound strategies for sector integration: The project made only
limited progress on assisting GoK to formulate economically sound investment and
organizational strategies for the integration of domestic primary petroleum production,
processing, transport, and distribution-the third of its objectives. This component was to
be implemented by oil and gas pipeline feasibility studies and by the National Gas
Investment Strategy study. The domestic oil pipeline studies demonstrated that the
investment proposals under consideration at the time could not be justified on economic
grounds, and these proposals were subsequently dropped. A small additional study
covering the processing of gas liquids was of some assistance in the expansion of one
processing plant. The Gas Utilization and Transport study established several criteria to
be used for future policy making in this area, but Kazmunaigas, the government agency
in charge of such activities, appears to have done little to follow up these
recommendations. The efficacy of this project component is rated as negligible.
Efficiency: Was the project cost effective?
Efficiency is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return
higher than the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to
alternatives. This assessment rates project efficiency as modest.
45.   Assistance with negotiation of the most important, large exploration/production
contracts was provided without much Bank input, primarily for work that was already in



14
progress and would have been completed even if Bank funding had not been available.
Thus, while the efficacy of this component was high, the efficiency of the Bank support
for this component is rated as modest.
46.   A substantial portion of project financing was to provide financial and legal
technical assistance for the privatization of the Uzenmunaigas, the operator of the Uzen
oilfield. The privatization process went off track when GoK's privatization decision was
swayed by an offer by CNPC to build an economically questionable export pipeline to
China. When this promise remained unfulfilled, Uzenmunaigas continued to use its long-
standing Soviet-era organizational and operating procedures, with their accompanying
lack of concern for economic efficiency or environmental pollution. The efficiency of this
project component was negligible.
47.   Assistance for formulating the Petroleum Law was limited because the basic law
had passed parliament before the project became effective. Project funds were not used
on this activity. Instead, they were used to provide assistance for drafting the enabling
legislation for the Petroleum Law. This support was extremely important and highly
efficient, as was assistance for drafting tax legislation. The efficiency of these components
is rated as high.
48.   Support for technical training in the Ministry of Oil and Gas, and its subsequent
transformations, Kazakhoil and Kazmunaigas, has had less of an impact than had been
hoped, primarily because there has been such a rapid turnover of managers in these
organizations that most of the knowledge has been dissipated. The major institution-
building activity, the integrated geoinformation and electric documentation management
system was not implemented. The efficiency of these activities is rated as modest.
49.   The Petroleum Training Institute established under the project, on the other hand,
has used its limited resources to create an institution of excellent reputation, and has
effectively made the transition from state subsidies to full financial independence, on the
basis of fees paid by the users of its services. This is a remarkable achievement. The
efficiency of this component is rated as high.
lInstitutionall lDevelopment Impact: Has the project led to better management of human,
natural and financial resources?
Institutional development impact is the extent to which a project improves the ability of a
country or region to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human,
financial, and natural resources through better definition, stability, transparency,
enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements. This assessment rates
the project's institutional development impact as substantial
50.   The legal and regulatory framework for the petroleum sector was substantially
improved. The improvements provided the basis for the greatly expanded foreign
investment in the sector. The other major institutional component, which was to establish
a national petroleum training institute that would continue to support sector development,
was also highly successful.



15
Sustainability: Are the results likely to last?
Sustainability is the resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. It is evaluated by
assessing the risks and uncertainties faced by the project and by ascertaining whether
adequate arrangements are in place to militate against the impact of known operational
risks. This assessment rates project sustainability as likely.
51.   The project helped to finalize the investment agreements for the Karachaganak
and KazakhstanCaspiShelf operations. It also supported a study on the infrastructure and
operations base requirements needed to support the offshore oil operations of Caspian
Sea operators, which is now being implemented through a joint venture. These projects
are progressing well, with strong IOC investment support.
52.   IOC presence will continue to expand in Kazakhstan, and oil output will continue to
grow rapidly. There has been periodic friction between the GoK and the foreign oil
companies. For instance, in the second quarter of 2002, the government was trying to
renegotiate certain taxation and royalty agreements with some of the largest companies to
compensate for the loss in revenue from the national, across-the-board cuts in VAT and
payroll taxes that were introduced earlier this year, while the oil companies have taken the
position that the contracts that they entered into should be sacrosanct, and therefore, that
there should be no renegotiation of any part of them. In the long run, however, Kazakhstan
does not have the technical or financial capability to develop its extensive oil resources on
its own in a timeframe that would meet GoK's macroeconomic objectives. It needs the IOCs
to develop its oil resources, and the IOCs will continue to be eager to join in this effort.
Outcome
The outcome criteria take into account extent to which the project's major relevant
objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, efficiently. This assessment
rates the project outcome as moderately satisfactory.
53.   The most important contribution of the project was the introduction of
independent technical experts who were able to teach Kazakhstani government officials
about the workings of the international petroleum industry within the context of a market
economy. The assessment mission found universal praise for this process at a time when
Kazakhstan was being introduced to the objectives and ways of the international
petroleum industry.
54.   The project's results were mixed. Some significant benefits were achieved, but
many of the components failed to meet their objectives. Critical implementing legislation
was established for the petroleum sector under this project, but the legislative framework
for sector taxation policy designed under the project was only partially implemented.
While the technical assistance for completing the negotiations for the major concession
areas was successful, the Bank's input into this activity was, at best, marginal-its
contribution was limited to taking over the payment for existing contracts, which the
government would have continued to pay for in the absence of the Bank project. While
some project components succeeded, including the Petroleum Training Center, and some
of the studies were helpful (the oil pipeline study), other major project components were
unsuccessful, including the privatization of Uzenmunaigas and the establishment of an
information system for Kazakhoil/Kazmunaigas.



16
Bank Performaance
The rating of Bank performance is an assessment of the extent to which services provided
by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported implementation through appropriate
supervision. This assessment rates Bamik performance as satisfactory.
55.   Quality at entry: There was no formal QAG Quality at Entry review. This
assessment is in full agreement with the conclusion of the ICR that the project objectives
were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Kazakhstan, and its
strategy to support privatization of the petroleum sector. These objectives were well
aligned with GoK priorities. Specific project goals were clearly identified. However,
much of the difficulty in making the project effective was a result of the strategic error of
bringing it to the Board before the government had agreed on sector restructuring, and the
tactical error of failing to insist on a dedicated PIU within the MEFR. The quality at entry
is therefore judged to have been unsatisfactory.
56.   Quality of supervision: Bank staff made every effort to support the needs of the
borrower while maintaining the objectives of the project, through a long process. during
which time there were many changes in senior government officials, and their persistence
in demonstrating the importance of the project objectives to the new officials. In this way
they overcame the project's initial handicaps, and brought the project to a successful
conclusion. The project team also spent considerable time and effort in reviewing the
offers for privatization of Uzenmunaigas, including a full critique of the difficulties
inherent in GoK's decision to establish a joint venture for the Uzen oilfield separately
from the privatization of Uzenmunaigas. The Bank did, however, go beyond the mandate
of the project when it agreed to finance the evaluation of three oilfields that Kazakhoil
wanted to develop on its own, since this added activity was not consistent with any of the
project's original objectives or components. Nevertheless, the quality of supervision is
judged to have been satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
The rating of borrower performance is an assessment of the extent to which the borrower
assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality of preparation and
implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. This assessment judges the borrower
performance as Unsatisfactory.
57.   The borrower was fully supportive of the technical assistance provided for
negotiating on the major ventures. It implemented the proposed petroleum sector
enabling legislation, but on taxation policies, which are an integral part of the petroleum
package, it was unable to implement the proposed legislation. It was also supportive of
the initial efforts to privatize Uzenmunaigas. However, the process was far from
transparent and eventually got sidetracked by the promise of a highly speculative oil
export pipeline to China. During this period, the petroleum sector went through several
major reorganizations. Changes in the sector's senior management made it difficult to
maintain a consistent outlook toward the project's primary objectives. By the time the
China pipeline fell through, the government was no longer interested in pursuing the
privatization option. New management in the successor implementing agency cancelled
the integrated geoinformation and electric documentation management system without



17
discussing its importance with Bank staff. The government has yet to act on the
recommendations of the gas transport and utilization study.
LESSONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
58.   Late in the implementation phase, the Bank accepted an additional project
component that was not consistent with the original project design objectives. When
additional project components are proposed during the implementation of a technical
assistance project, the Bank needs to be especially careful to undertake a full process of
establishing a justification within the context of the original project objectives and
components.
59.   The financing of the continuing work of contract advisors who are already advising
the government is a questionable practice, since it makes it extremely difficult for the Bank
to fulfill its quality control function. The Bank funding should primarily support activities
when the Bank has a role that will contribute the success of these activities, if in no other
way than by reviewing the reports and recommendations of the consultants.
60.   The agreed terms of oil development contracts between GoK and private
companies remain confidential, even though the contracts were negotiated with assistance
financed by the Bank. The Bank should make every effort to get governments to agree to
make public the basic financial elements of all agreements and contracts that are
negotiated with foreign companies. Public review of such contracts is the only way to
establish transparency and accountability in dealing with the exploitation of national
resources such as oil. In particular, the Bank should only provide technical assistance for
the negotiating of contracts that are intended to become part of the public domain (at least
in their broad terms).






18                                   Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LN. 3744-KZ)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal estimate     Actual or     Actual as percent of
current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                     18.57             13.72                74
Loan amount                             15.7              13.34                85
Cofinancing                              0                  0
Cancellation (SDR)                       0                2.36
Date physical components                 Na                Na                  na
completed
Economic rate of retum                   na                na                  na
Project Dates
Original                   Actual
Identification                                                          May 5,1993
Preparation
Appraisal                                                             August 15,1993
Negotiations
Board Presentation                                                     June 24,1994
Signing
Effectveness                               August31, 1994            September 8, 1995
Project Completion                        December 31, 1996          December 31, 1999
Project Closing                             July 31,1997              March 31, 2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Total
Up to Appraisal              125.7
Appraisal to Board           53.9
Board to Effectiveness       23.2
Supervision                  97.8
Completion                    4.0
Total                        304.6



19                                      Aimem A
Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
Month/Year               Number                 Specialty              Implementatfo Developmen
n Progress t Objectfve
Identification/Preparation:
02/93                        1                     ML
05/93                       10     ML, TL, SOIE, PTE, PPFE, PE, SORE,
LW, OA, RA
Appraisal/Negotiations:
08/93                        3                 ML, TS, PS
11/93                        2                   ML,TL
02/94                        1                     ML
Supervision
09/94                        2                   ML, PTS                      S             HS
01/95                        2                   ML,PTS                       S             U
04/95                        1                     ML                         U             S
10/95                        2                   ML, PTE                      S             S
12/95                       3                  TL, EG, OAn                    S             S
05/96                        2                    TL,TS                       S             S
10/96                        3                TM, OAn, EG                     S             S
02/97                        4             TM, OAn, PTS, PTE                  S             S
11/97                        3                 TM,LS,PTE                      S             S
06/98                        3                 TM, LS, OAn                    S              S
12/98                        4               ML,SLC,LS, FA                    S             S
04/99                        4               ML, LS, FA, FMO                  S              S
06/99                        4              ML, LS, FMO, OPO                  S              S
10/99                       3                  ML, LS, FMO                    S             S
01/00                        3                 ML, PS, FMO                    S              S
ICR
04/00                        3                 ML, TS, FMO                    S              S
ML=Mission Leader; TL=Team Leader, SOIE=Sr. Oil Industry Expert, PTE=Petroleum Expert, PPFE=Pipeline and Production
Facility Expert, PE=Pipeline Expert, SORE=Sr. Oil Refining Expert, LW=Lawyer, OA=Operational Advisor, RA=Research
Assistant, TS=Training Specialist, PS=Procurement Specialist, PTS=Petroleum Specialist, PTE=Petroleum Engineer, EG=Engineer,
OAn=Operational Analyst, LS=Legal Specialist, SLC=Sr. Legal Counsel, FA=Fmancial Analyst, FMO=Fmancial Management
Officer, OPO=Operations Officer



20                                      Annex A
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operatfon                                         LnICr no.       Amount            Board date
(US$ million)
Uzen Oil Field Pilot Project                    4061          109               July 2, 1996






21                            Annex B
Annex B. Borrower Comments
BCeMHpHb6U 6aHK
rpynna ceKTopaTi6noui H TeMaTH-qecicoH oieHICH
,jenapTameHT no ou(eHiceqeSITea6bHOCTH
r-Hy 3aaHy Bap6y
HaNg 03/110 om 24.02.03 z.
Kac.: JpoeKma mexnuu-ecKou noMot4u Hie,mJznoMy ceKmopy (3aeM 37440)
J7poeKma om4ema no ozjerKe 3e/JeKmuenocmu npoeKma
YBazaeMb6,n r-H 3JIaH Bap6y!
MHHHCTepCTBO    3KOHOMHKH   H   6ioj)eTHOrO  ilJiaHHpOBaHHA
Pecny6mnK    Ka3aXCTaH, paccmoTpeB    iipoeKT  oTIeTa ifo  oieHKe
34eKTHBHOCTH flpoeKTa TexHHieCKOR riOMO0II] He4TSHOMy CeKTopy
(3aeM 37440), coo6iiaeT, xITO 3aMe'aHHir 4H ripegnoweHHR K
B,iiiieyKa3aHHOMY gOKyMeHTy He HMeeT.
UIpIH 3TOM, OTMetIaeM, lITO peaJIH3aHA rI poeKTa TexHH'IeCKOH
IIOMOJUH   B   onpeAejieHHO4   mepe   cioCo6CTBOBaffa   pa3BUTHIO
He#Tera3oBoro ceKTopa PecrIy6jmIKH Ka3aXCTaH.
HaAeemc51 Ha gaRbHeHiee HJIOAOTBOPHOe COTpyAHH'ecTBo.
C yBa)xeHHeM,
BHiue-MuHHCTp                               A. ,liyHaeB
HUcn. YcMano6 P.H.
71-81-21



22                              Annex B
'aoslation
World Bank
Sector and Thematdc Evaluatiom Group
Operations Evaluation Department
Mir. Allain B3arbu
Re: Evaluation of TA-Oil Sector (Loan 37440)
Ministry of Economy & Budget Planning of Kazakhstan has revised the draft
report evaluating effectiveness of the oil sector TA project (loan 37440). We would like
to notify you that we have no suggestions or objections regarding this document.
We would like to emphasize that implementation of this project to a certain extent
has contributed to the development of the oil and gas sector in Kazakhstan.
We look forward to further fruitful cooperation.
With best regards,
Vice Minister                                          A. Dunaev



