Documemt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL UE ONY
Alut ;3" 7 4     4
Rep.t No. P-6178--KZ
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$15.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MAY 5, 1994
MI CROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6178 KZ
Type: PR
This document bas a restricted distriuon and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their offcial duties. Its content may not otherise be disclosed without World Bank authonzaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Tenge
Tenge       =     100 tiyns
US$1       =     Tenge 23
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 cubic meter (cm)     =     35.315 cubic feet (cf)
mcm (natural gas)     =     34800 Mi = 0.83 toe
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
b/d      =     barrels per day
EBRD        =     European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
EC       =     European Community
EDI       =     Economic Development Institute
FSU       =      Former Soviet Union
MEFR        =      Ministry of Energy and Fuel Resources
MoF       =      Ministry of Finance
mcm       =      thousand cubic meters
mj       =     megajoule
pa      =      per annum
PIU       =     Project Implementation Unit
PPF       =     Project Preparation Facility
SPC       =     State Property Committee
TA       =     Technical Assistance
TCP       =      Technical Cooperation Program
toe      =     tons of oil equivalent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M&ZAKUHIT
PETRL;IU=  TECHNICAL) MUM =TE    PROJEC
LOAN AND PROJESCr  lMl
Republic of azkh=sn
Beneficiars:             Ministry of Energy and Fuel Resources, Munaygas, a
Kaakhnefteprodukt, Kazahgaifitsia
L  AMmount:              US$15.7 million equivalent
17 years, including five years grace pxiod, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
On-Lending ITm:          US$2.5 million, representing the estimated cost of consulting srvices
and equipment to be procured under the prqect by the p g
companies (Munaygas, Kazakhgas, Kazakhnefeprodukt and
azakhgaziflkatsa), would be on-lent to them in US dollmars at a
variable rate equal to the yield on 10-year US Treasury Notes plus a
margin of 200 basis points for a term of 10 years, induding a grace
period of three years; the companies will bear the US dollar exchag
risk
(US$ Millon)
IBIRD-                                 15.7       15.7
Government/Participating
Companies                u              1.8       .12
Total                    2.1           17.5       19.6
13conomic Rate of
Retum             Not applicable
Staff AiSW
RC=               Not applicable
Pqa cawoq:               Not applicable
Mae:                     IBRD No. 24470
This document has a _etctd driution and mray be usod by cpients any in t e  of
a dutis Iscontets nototewisbesdosdwihout Word Bank



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCnION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
1.          I submit the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Kazakhstan in the amount of US$15.7 million equivalent for approval. The loan would be
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 17 years, including five years
of grace and would assist with financing the Petroleum Technical Assistance Ptoject.
2.          A draft Country Economic Memorandum was distributed in November i992
and iswued in Red Cover in September 1993. A Country Assistance Straegy was discussed
by the Board of Executive Directors on August 3, 1993.
3.          Contry and Setor       nd: Kazakhstan is the second largest oil producer
in the former Soviet Union with current production of about 440,000 barrels per day. The
countty also has the second largest proven reserves of both oil and gas in the region and the
prospects for significant additions to reserves are excelnt. Owing to an exceedingly low
ratio of production to reserves, the potental to expand significantly the production of oil and
gas in the medium term is great.
4.          The petroleum sector plays a pivotal role in the economy, accounting for an
esimated 12% of total export revenues, 32% of hard currency exports and 7% of gross
domestic product (GDP) in 1992. The sector also contributes a significant amount to the
Government's budgetary revenues. Currently the sector represents the country's most
promisin source of economic growth. However, this promise will only be realized if the
constraints on its capacity to expand production and exports are relieved.
5.          At present, the sector's ability to maintain and expand its capacity is limited by
its relatively poor and deteriorating cash generation as a result of (i) low and controlled
domestc producer prices for crude oil; (ii) low negotiated export prices to regional markets
and large arrears of payments on such exports; (iii) limited access to ttwnsport facilities for
eports to intenional markets; (iv) the rapid rise in the price of imported operating inputs
towards world market levels; and (v) institutional obligations to fund non-commercial
activities out of after-tax profits. One consequence of the weakening financial position of the
sector has been declining aggregate production, at a rate of about 7% per annum, since 1990.
However, even with pnce and institutional reforms, improved regional trading terms and
access to export markets, the domestic industry will not be able to generate sufficient
resources to flnhce most of the large field development and rehabilitation necessary to
generate the rapid expansion of output that is feasible with its present reserves. Large
inflows of foreign pnvate capital and technology would be necessary to enable the full
exploitation of the country's petroleum potential.
6.          Foreign direct investment interest in the oil sector of Kazakhstan is high.
Noness, the successful negotiation of investment agreements has been a relatively slow



2
proces. This has been due mainly to the complexity of investment propoals in relatio to
the domestic capacity to analyze and evaluate such proposals, and the absence of a clea lega
and tation flamework to guide negotiations on the most significant commercial feaus of
proposed agreements.
7.          Govemment Stategy in Xt Sector. The Government's strategy in the sector is
to promote a rapid expansion of petroleum production and exports to generAte foregn
exchange and fiscal revenues. In the short term, dte main challenges confronting the
Government in increasing oil and gas production to more optimal levels are the-fold: (i) to
stem declining production in existing producing fields; (ii) to conclude negotiations for the
development of new or partly developed fields and for exploration rights; and (ifl) to create a
legal, taxation and institutional framework conducive to attracting foreign investment and the
speedy conclusion of negotiations. In the medium term, the Government's strategy in the
subsector would need to focus on (i) promoting economically efficient investments in
domestic petroleum processing, transmission and distribution; (ii) creating efficient and
adequate transport access to intemational markets for its oil production; and (iii) developing
the domestic capacity to manage the sector and its entprises efficiently and on a
commercial basis.
.           Bank Country and Sector Assistance Strategy. The main objectives of the
Bank's country assistance strategy for Kazakhstan are to: (X) support maceconomic
stbilizion; (ii) support structal reforms at the macro and sectoal level; (ii) strgthen the
social safety net; (iv) help restore the country's production capacity; and (v) strengthen the
government's policy and projects implementation capacity. These objectives are reflected
flluy in the Bank's energy sector assistance strategy. In the energy sector in general, and the
petroleum subsector in particular, the investments required to restore and expand production
cpacity will have to be financed from enterprises' intemr  cash generation and from foreign
private direct investors and financial institutions, including IFC. Accordingly the Bank's
subsector strategy aim at assisting the Government to: (i) develop an apprpriate legal and
institutonal environment for energy sector investments and operations; (ii) stem the decline
in output and improve the efficiency of operations of existing sector entities to underpin their
export revenue and cash generating potential; and (Mii) develop efficient additional transport
capacity for the evacuation of oil to domestic and export markets.
9.          The proposed project is fully consistent with the Bank's country and energy
sector assstance stategies. It supports directly initiatives to (J) strengthen the management of
the petroleum subsectw, and (ii) create the conditions and vehicles necessary for the effective
mobilization of foreign investment resources into the subsector.
10.        In addition to the prepation of the proposed pfoject, the Bank has been
instrumel in assisting the Govemment to prepare a comprehensive program of technical
assitnce reqrements in the sector and in mobilizing donor (EC, USAID, EBRD) financing
for such a program. This assistance was underaen in parall to the Technical Coopeation
Program (ICP) under which the Bank initiated work on a broad range of sector policy issue
covering petroleum leglation and taxation, energy pricing and petroleum sector
resrc.t . Under the Rehabilitation Loan( (Ln 3469-KZ), the Bank helped to identify and
preare apprpriate procurement documentation for the immediate equipment requiremes of



3
the Uzen field (the largest producng field m Kazakhstan) to stem the growig backlog of
wei workover aad repair of surface filities which have led to an abnormally high rate of
dcn e in oil production over the last ftfree years of 17% per annum. A possible are scale
inetment pWoject in the Uzen field, designed to help clear the backlog of well workovers,
rebabilitate its infrastucture and restructure its operations and magement is under
peparaion. The viability of this project will depend on both the introduction of reforms to
strengthen te self-financing capacity of the oil industry and the speedy mobilization of
fign public and private capital.
11.         Sect Objectives. The primary objectve of the project is to assist the
Goveanment to strengthen the capacity of the key petroleum subsctor agencies to: (a) attract
foreign investments into the subsector; O) promote the efficiency and long-term fiancial
viability of the petroleum industries; and (c) formulate economically sound investment and
org   tional stregies for the integration of domestic primary petroleum production,
processing, transport and distribumon.
12.         Proect Dcampdon. The proposed project consists of the following: (A)
nstOd  Dvement Comnents: (i) Advisory Services for Foreign Investment
NeOWstiati nLand Promotion (base cost: US$5.9 million). This component would provide
suppot to the Government in creatig an effective framework for promoting foreign
investets in the petroleum subsector through assistance in finalizing a Petroleum Law and
in the formulation of a taxation code for petroleum opeats; in appraising potential
nvestment projects and stucturing and negoiaing    actons with prospective investors;
ad in training local staff to assume rsonsibility for ifnishing much of this work in the
future;) Su= for Pettoleum Idusr Restnng and                   (base cost)
US$5.3 million). This component would assist the Government to implement effectively a
program of corporatization and restuctring of the petroleum industry, and prepare the basis
for incased private sector particpation in the industry; (iii) Petroleum Jlnnay ITining
and Tmining MMnUMl (base cost: US$3.3 million). This component would assist the
Government to identify and address priority management training needs in the sector, and
prepre and administer a progrm  of training in market-oriented petroleum industry
operonal and commercial practices; (B) Project B=afim and Implemet  Sun=
ComponentsI: (i) Ein Feaibility Studies (base cost: US$0.7 million). The planned studies
under this component would review the economic feasibility of the Government's plans to
constuct (a) new product pipelines to replace the transport of petroleum products by rail;
and (b) a crude oil pipeline to connect the oilfields in the west with the two refineries in the
eastern part of the country; assistance would be provided for the preparation of tender
documents for identified viable pipelines; (ii) NIatural GasIestmbentStrg    (base cost
US$1.1 million). This component would provide assistance for the assessment of the regonal
and domestic market potential for natural gas and the supply and investment opions for
Kazakhstan in participating in meeting such demand; (iii) Prect Impleme   S o
(base cost: US$0.7 milLion). This component would provide advisory and osultat services
to the Government to manage the day-to-day implementation of the project.
13.           ie  Costs and Einancg. The total cost of the project is esimated at
US$19.6 million net of taxes and duties with a foreign exchange component of about



4
US$17.5 million (90%). A breaWown of costs is shown in Schedule A. The overall
implementation of the project is expcted to take about three and half years.
14.            P* .Overall esponsibility for theimplem   ationof the
project wodd reside in the Ministry of Energy and Fuel Resources (MEFR) which has
appoinled a Deputy Minister to oversee the project. MEFR would monitor the overall
peformance of the consultants, review the   mdai ns  d conclusions of the sudies
and decide on the steps to be taken for their implementaton. To support FR's project
management and coordination responsibilities, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be
established in MER This unit would cordiate and provide sWort for all project
activities including procurement, loan disbursements, and the day-to-day coordina0ion and
monitorig of the work of consultants. The PIU would also provide secrtarial st   to the
Deputy Minister of MEFR charged with project oversight. The four wctoral companies
(Munaygas, Kaza s,    khneftepdukt and  khgazifltsa) in which the
Governmen's conong equity interest in the petroleum sector is currently vested and
which are responsible for oversight of the performance of the sector would each be
responsible for the implementaton, in their respective industries of the subcomponent of the
Petroleum Industry Restructuring component geared towards strengthening accounting and
financial management and management control procedures in the sector. Executing
rsponsibiity for all other components will rest with the Oil and Gas deprtment of ME.
With respect to the Petroleum Industry Training component, MEFR would establish a
Training Center to manage its execution. The Training Center would be reponsible for the
deternation of courses to be prepared, the selection of consultants, the selection and
cei n of institutions for the delivery of courses and selecdon of candidates for
secondments abroad. An Advisory Board, with majority representation of the four sectoral
hoding companies or other appopiate industry representatives, would be established to
oversee the work of the Trining Center.
15.         Rationale fIaort kIglymnt. The proposed project is one of the vilaes
for im   ting the Bank's country and sector  nce strategy for Kazakhsamn. The
proposed project is the resut of the Government's decision to seek Bank asstan  instead of
mult-donor support in financing a concentad progam of technical assistance in the
petoem sector. This decision reflects the Government's desire to avoid the significant
problems of mana     t and conaion that might adse from diffused muti-donor
assistance to the sectr and the attendant risks of significant implementation delays. Dufing
the fist pre-Cstadve Group meedng in Almaty in My 1993, donors agreed to finance
technical assstance needs in subsectors other than petroleum, allowing the Bank to focus its
assistance on the petroleum sub-sector.
16.         Lsons from Previous Bank Projects. The Bank's experience in free-stading
techmical assistance projects is mixed. However, some key lessons for the successfui desg
and implementaton of TA projects have been drawn from this experience: (i) the proposed
TA project components must be conistent with the country's institutional development
strategy; (ii) the Government and the beneficary agencies must demonstrate commitm   to
the goals of the project; (iii) there should be an instittional capacity to manage and absorb
the assstan  prvided; (iV) terms of refence should be detaied and exphcit abut  cted
output; and (v) intensive Bank supvision should be provided during project



S
implementatin. The design of the proposed project reflects these lessons. The Bank has
consideable experience in the finncing of technical asistance and insdtution-building in the
petroleum sector, mostly in exploation promotion projec  and, to a lesser degree, as
impornt componets of investment lending opeations. The PCRs and PPARs completed
for such projects indicate that technical assistance acdvities were, in general, inmplemented
satisfctoril. In addition to the above mentioned problems with free-standing TA, the
beneficiaries' inital lack of famiaty with Bank prurement procedures affected project
implementation. The project completion reports prepared for the TCP indicate widesread
interest in the activitis financed under the program by the Government and enterprises in the
subsector. The work done under the TCP on a draft Petroleum Law and on a framework for
the restructurng of the petroleum sector have featured promiently in the internal debate in
the Government on the options for reform in the sector. The Government has requested
assistnce in follow-up work towards the finalization and implementation of these activities.
17.         Ag=M=  lCAd: The following actions were agrd u         d
u§gg.altins: (a) on-lending amngements: that all project fincing for the components to be
implemente:d by the four sectoral holding companies would be on-lent to them on terms
satiswory to the Ban; (b) cost re : mthat MEFR shall establsh and apply a fee system
for the training and investment advisory sevices to be provided under the project,
satstory to the Bank, which will allow it to recover the reasonable cost of all expenditures
ncurd in prowviding such srvices; (c)  of investment advisoy  sri: that the
Govemmet shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30 and December 31
of each year, a list of proposed investments to be eligible for consideration by the investment
and legi advisors; (d)      WM: that the future investment plans for the Goverment
in poduct and crude oil pipelines and in the natral gas subsector would tae due account of
the findings and agreed recommendations of the studies to be conducted under the project;
(e) kaInIMgMaI: (i) that MEFR would establish an Advisory Board, sasctory to the
Bank, including representatives of the companies participating in the project and other
petoleum sector enterprises, to advise on the content, scope and timing of the training
pgrams to be undertakn under the project and to assists in the evaluation and supervision
of such programs; (ii) review with the Bank, not later than September 30 of each year the
training program proposed to be undertacen the following year; (iii) furnish to the Bank for
its approval, the taining programs evaluated and aproved by the Advisory Board; (iv) selet
the beneficiaies of the training programs in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank
(f) conditions of e      (i) the execution of a subsidiary agreement between the
Govenment and Munaigas, the holding company for the Government's interest in oil
production, ran ion and refining, and which has oversight responsibilities over the
largest segment of the peroleum sector, (ii) employment of project execution advisor and
p     nt advisor, satisfactory to the Bank, for the PIU; (g) Others: the Government shall
fumish to the Bank, no later than July 31, 1994, a plan, safisfactory to the Bank, defining
the scope and timing of corporazation, restructuring and privatization actions to be talen in
the petroleum sector; (h) mid-term review that a review be carried out by the Government
and the Bank, no later than July 31, 1995, of the progress achieved in carrying out the
project and acdons taken with respect to the corporatization, restructuring and privaizain
of the petroleum sector.



6
18.         Environmental A   ts. The proposed project has been clasified as Cagy
C under OD 4.01. However, there are significant environmental issues in the acvities that
would be supported under the proposed projet. Direct environmental implications aring
from reviews of investment options in oil and gas procesng and tortion would be
addresed as part of the proposed program of studies. For oil producing activities, the
Eninmental Assessment curretly under prparation for the proposed Uzen Oil Field
Project (FY 95) would include a review of environmental standards in the industry. The
review would identify the steps that need to be taken to strengtien the reguation of
envirnmental and occupational health and safety practices in the industry.
19.         Project Benefits. The proposed project would assist in acceleting. the
mobiliztion of critically needed foreign investment into the petroleum subsector, provide
least-ost options for the exploitation, processing and distibution of the country's petroleum
resources and provide the basis for sustained and effective local economic and commercial
management of the sector.
20.         Eroject Risk. The key project risks are two-told. EirA, the project may be
subject to delays. In particular, project management may not be sufficiently effective to
ensure that the TA activities are implemented On a dmely basis to makle an appreciable
impact on investment flows into the subsector. d, there may not be a uniform
commitment in the Government to maing investments primarily on economic and
commercial grounds and, therefore, recommended investment strategies arsing frm the
studies to be financed under the project may not be followed-up. The implemenion
arrangements, including structured external support to and training for the members of the
PU have been desined to miiate the first set of risks. For the second set of risls, the
investment-related activities have been stucured to ensure that assistance is provided for
follow-up implementation of consultants' agreed recommendations. Nonetheless, this may be
insufficient to avert this risk and the mid-term review is designed to enable both the Bank
and the Government to decide on appropriate actions to be taken at the key decision point for
the studies.
21.         Recommendaton. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would complywidthe
Artcles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
May 5, 1994
Attcments



7
Sgcha& A
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
PETOEU TEICA SSISTANCEPR1C
COST ESTIMATE AND FNANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
L     Etiate                                       Local  Foreign  Toal
A:  titutional Development Components:
1. Foreign Investment Negotiations and Promotion    0.6     5.3     5.9
2. Support for Petroleum Industry Restructuring
0.5     4.8      5.3
3. Petroleum Industry Training and Training
Management                                       0.3      3.0     3.3
B: Project Preparation & Implementation
Support Components:
4. Pipeline Peasibility Studies                     0.1     0.6      0.7
5. Natural Gas Investment Stategy Study             0.1      1.0     1.1
6. Project Implementation Unit (PIU)                0.1     0.6      0.7
Tota Base Cost                                   1.7      15.3   17.0
Contingencies                                    0.4      2.2     2.6
Project Total Cost                               2.1    17.5    19.6
IL          Plan
1. Government                                       2.1     1.8     3.9
2. IBRD                                             0.0    15.7    15.7
Tota Fl anclng                                   2.1    17.5    19.6



8
FMb 11o 
APUBLI OP KAZAKHSTAN
PET.()EUMTECHNMCAL ASSIS= PROJEC
aQcuSment Me«ods
(US$ million)
Project Element                           ICB        Other'    N.B.F.    TOTAL
1. Stdies                                                -           2.1          2.1
2. Consultants                                            13.5                    13.5
(11.9)                  (11.9)
3. Trainng2                                               1.8                     1.8
(1.6)                   (1.6)
4. Office Equipment                                       0.7                     0.7
(0.7)                   (0.7)
5. R     glandng PPF                                      1.5                     (1.5
(1.5)                   (1.5)
6. Total Cost                                            17.5        2.1         19.6
(15.7)                  (15.7)
Noto: Figures in parenti are the repecti  amoun  financed by the Ba  loan
N.B.F. - Not Bank-Fmanced.
/ Shortlist and Selection of Individeals for consultants' services according to the Btak's Guidelins.
Direct Contracting for training, ad International Showing and Local Shopping for equpment (for details,
see Auux 2)
21 Semnars in Kzakhstan and Semnars, Feltouships and Secanmnts abroad.
a/ Comter wd Software, Photocopy Nachfnes, Cmfnicattns Equipment & Supplies to be procured on tho
bass of Intntional Shopping (USS0.6 million) and Local Shopping (US$0.1 million).



9
Schedue B
Pae  2 of2
RE3PIJl[I  OF  CZXS N
PETROLEUM EHIA ASSISTANCE PROJC
(US$ mio)
Que                                               Am"   %of                 to b ianced
Conslt' Services                                10.1       100% of expnditurs
2. Traiing                                        14        100% of expenditures
3. Ofioe Equipment                                0.6       100% of foreig exendiu
100% of local epntur  (ex fcoRY
costs) and 75% of expetures for
other itms procured locall
4. Prject P repao Facity                          L5
Edmad Ttal D e
Aga             Total Base Costs               13.6
S. Unalocated                                     2.1
.nmatdTdoalPkhrs@                              1S.7
Estimated Annual and
CmulDment
FY 95      FY 96  FY 97       FY 98
Annual                                 4.7        63      3.8        0.9
a     tiem                             4.7       11L0    14.8       15.7



10
ammdu~~~~~~~~ebdl CN
Time taken to prepar.                                     Six mont
Prepac d bJ                                               The Govermet of Kazakhstan
with assistance from IBRD staff
and consultants
FrAst MMD Missio                                          Febniaay 1993
Apprsa Mission Depa:tu                                    August 16,1993
Negoeiaton                                                April 21, 1994
Paned Date of Efiveues                                    August 31, 1994
Ths Memorandum and R                 of the Presdent (MOP) was prepaed an the basis of an appraia m on
that vsited Kaakhstan inl Agust 1993.  e mission consisted of Messrsm Yusupba Crookes (rask Manger), Caudio
Mour Casiro (Trabiang Speialst), Mauizio Melagari (Consulant). Mr. Jonata Brown and Mr. Russel J.
Chueetham are nman1g D i  Chief and Deptn  Diretor, respectely, for the operao



11
Schxdul D
KAZAKHSTAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Status of Dank Group Operations
A. Statemet of BkLoan   s L     anlDA Credts
(As of Ma 2, 1994)
Amount in USS milion
Lon/         Fiscal                                               Oess ccellation)
Credit No.     Year        Purpos                  Bank       IDA      nTndisbursed
3642-KZ       1994    Technical Assistance          38.0                   37.7
3649-KZ       1994    Rehabilitation               180.0                  1053
372S-XZ       1994    Urban Traport                 40.0                   40.0
L. Statement of IFC Invesmets
(As of May 2,1994)
Fiscl                        IType.of .                 Amount in USS millio
fl     Year            Company            Business            Total          Undisured
1994          ABN-ANRO             Banlkig             2.0             2.0



12
UXHtIDNAL ANNE^X
fbMgsed Petroleum Technical Assistance Prjet
SECTION A: Sector BackgDrund
Petroleum Production
1.         Petroleum Reseres. Kazakhstan has the second largest proven reserves of
petroleum in the former Soviet Union (FSU) after the Russian Federation, with estimated oil
reserves of 2.1 billion tons and natural gas reserves of 1.6 trillion cubic meters. In addition,
the hydrocarbon potential of the country is far from mature with vast areas with high
potential for additional discoveries of oil still unexplored or not explored intensively in the
past.
2.          Petroleum Produtin. Current production of oil is about 22 million tons per
annum (p.a.) (440,000 barrels per day [b/d]), making Kazakhstan the second largest producer
in the region. The production of natural gas is relatively low at about 8.0 billion cubic
meters p.a., of which about 47% is associated gas. In relation to the large proven oil and gas
reserves, the production of oil and gas is unusually low.
3.          Constai  on Petroleum Production. Oil and gas production has been
cosained by two key factors.
Ekim, the geology of the country is relatively complex with much of the
discovered but underdeveloped petroleum reserves located in high pressure
zones for which the FSU did not have the appropriate technology. In addition,
a significant proportion of the total unexploited reserves of oil and gas is
charactrized by high sulfur content. The country had nether the financial nor
the technical resources to adequately exploit these reserves.
Second, lack of adequate financial resources prevented both the development
of newly discovered fields (with or without difficult technical characteistics)
and the optimal development of producing fields. It also contributed to the
accelerated and premature decline of production from producing fields. Within
the FSU, development of the petroleum subsector in Kazakhstan faced
significant competition for centrally-allocated investment resources from
petroleum prospects located elsewhere that were technically less complex to
exploit. At the same time, pricing, taxation and profits distribution poLicies led



13
to Minimal generation of free cash flow for reinvestment in the sector.4 Sine
the disslultion of the MSU, the sector's financial and opeating capacity has
deterioted sharly as a result of the combination of four fActors: (i) low
domesdc cude oil prices, currently (April 1994) set at about 30% of world
market export parity ptices; (ii) tansport constraints on the sector's capacity to
export to international markets (paras 5, 13); (iii) low export pnices to Russia
which accounts for about large arrears of payments cn exports to Rusia; and
(v) contnuing obligatons to fund social activities in its opeatng locations as
well as new obligations to contribute to the Government's fiscal revenues,
primarily through taxtion of its international export revenues.
4.          The R.ied Conte  Regional energy supply policy in the PSU played a
major part in determining the patn of petroleum and petroleum products supply within
Kazakhstan and Kazkhstan's participation in regional oil and gas production and proceng.
Ihe imct of regional supply policy is manfest particualy in the strucure of the country's
infrastructe for energy supply both to the domestic and foreign markets. Linkages between
the country's oil and gas producing areas (located mainly in the western part of the country)
and main consuming centers (easten and south easten region of the country) are limited and
much of the country's petroleum supply caacity is oriented towards Russia. Within the
regional system of energy supply, Russa historically has been the major center for
procesing of Kazakhstan oil and gas production.
5.          As a result of this structure, Kazakhstan is highly dependent on Russia as a
madrt for its cmde production, as an outlet for its exports to the rest of the world, and asa
splier of both crude oil and petum products. One important and adverse side-effct of
this dependence is the large extent to which pricing polies in Russia constmin the sope for
independent pricing polcies by Kazakhstan and the financial  mance of its poleum
ectr enterprses. Curently (April 1994), the negotated prce of crnde oil exports fom
Kazakstan to Russia is Tenge 965 per ton whilst the price of Russan crude oil supplies to
the two easterrefineies (out of the three in the country) is set at Tenge 1100 per ton.
These prces are broadly equal afler taing into account approprate discounts on the pdce of
crude oil from Kazakhstan for qulty differentals and tanspoLt cost differences.   o ,
eflecting he madret power of the Rusian refineies visa-vis Kazakhstan o producers
(who have no alternadve market outlets for their crude oil production beyond the 6.0 million
tons p.a that can be sold to the only domestc refinery with trsport links to the country's
major oil fields), actual cnrde oil export prices to Russa over the 15 months to March 1994
were at a discount of between 50% to 70% to the actual price of Russian supplies to
refineres in KazakLta.
IJP*af wa. mat =.sWaulyt compmtwMk* low 1miq Ib tax sylsm dawid bask prSta abaf awrap induawymua arnd abe
taxpzoiwmd tasiluzy a fiam cs .taxpzua sodia Wpoblgtio tbes po&" idarceltd rdneeto an MUntraWl4&=otI
M r            e-       b I'q_dEd                             ApFif



14
6.          Foreign Investnent iptheSect. In order to exploit its huge but
latent petroleum reserves more fully, the Government has been actively promoting the sector
to foreign investors. To date, about 32 oil and condensate fields with estmated total proven
reserves of 1.5 billion tons of oil equivalent and 1.3 trillion cubic meters of gas (accounting
for about 75% of the country's total rnaining recoverable petroleum reserves), have been
put on offer by the Govemment and its sector agencies to potential investors for partcipaton
in their development and rehabilitation. About 50% of the oil reserves and virtually aU of
the gas rserves in the fields put on offer so far have been accounted for by the Tengiz field
and the Karachaganak field, respectively. For the Tengiz field, a final agreement prwiding
for a 50/50 joint venture was signed between Tengizneftegaz (the Kazakstan production
association) and a subsidiary of Chevron in April, 1993. At present, foreign investors (BP
and Agip) are negotiating a 40-year contract for the development of the a anak field
(15% of total estmated reserves offered for participation). The remaining oil fields offered
for partcipation are small, requiring mostly surface infrastructure development or
rehabilition and institution of secondary or terary recovery processes. Foreig opators,
maly smaller independent oil companies, have expressed a good measure of interest in
these smaller operations as well.
7.          Foreign investment agreements in discovered fields entered into or pending
aprval by the Government (excluding Karchaganak, which is under negotiation) now
cover about 15 fields with total proven oil reserves of about 1.2 billion tons and involve total
investment commitments (including investments to be financed from internally generated
resources) of about US$40 billion.
8.         In addition to the promotion of discovered fields, the Govenment has also
been actively seeldng foreign partcipation in petroleum exploration, particularly in the highly
prospecdve pre-Caspian basin and the Caspian sea-shelf.
9.          The Institutional Conlrin  on Eorign        While  al interest in
exploration, development and rehabilitation prospects in the petroleum sector of Kwazstan
is high, one major problem has been that concluding agreements with potential investors and
gaining Government aroval for negotiated contracts has been time-cosuming. This has
affected adversely the rate of foreign direct investment flows into the  ctor. Delays in
completing negotitions have been due to a number of factors, among which the most
prominent ones have been: (1) the absence of a coherent petroleum legal and conual
framework for petroleum operations; (ii) the lack of a clear taxation regime for petroleum
operations, particularly provisions for taxation of potential profits in excess of adeqae rates
of return to investment in sector opeatdons; and (iii) the relative complexity of participatin
terms and suctres offered by potential investors compared to the limited domestic capacity
and expience in evaluating and appoving investment proposals.
10.        Ie LegaLPramework and Constraints. Cufrently, Kazahn   has a Law on
the Subsoil which governs the exploitaion of natural resources in genera. There is as yet no
specific legislafo governing petroleum opations. The Law on the Subsoil vests ownership



15
of all subsoil resources in the state, provides for the distribution of licensing powers between
the central and local governments, designates the institutions responsible for managing
significant aspects of the licensing process,and lays the basis for the levy of fees for the use
of naual resources. Foreign participation in the petroleum sector is governed by a Law on
Concessions under which operating rghts in commercial activites are granted to foreign
investors in the country. This law provides for the basis for the award of concessions and the
broad structure of the terms of concession contracts including the types of user fees and taxes
to be paid by concession holders. However, these laws leave unclear a number of crucial
areas such as (i) the specific basis for assessment of and the levels of taxes and user fees
payable under individual concession contracts; and (ii) the demarcation of institutional
responsibilities between different levels of govemment as well as between government
agencies. In addition, many governing legislative acts as well as institutions for the
determination or oversight of proposed agreements referred to in both laws do not yet exist.
As a result, the most significant commercial features governing both prospective investors'
returns and the Government's fiscal share of generated revenues and profits are subject to
uncertainty and deailed negotiations.
11.          The TaXn Ermrr and Constraints. At present, petroleum operations
are subject to the general enterpne taxation regime coverng the treatment of profits,
revenues and production costs. All domestic oil operations are subject to a tax on revenue to
finance exploration expenditures (undertaken in Kazakhstan, as in the rest of the FSU, by
separate functional agencies under the Ministry of Geology). In addition, domesicaly-
owned oil producing entities are subject to (i) a fixed rental payment to reduce enterprise net
profit margins to indutry norms; and (ii) export duty on sales of oil in inteational markets.
Te fixed rental payment has proven difficult to admiister due to high inflation,
controlled oil prices and changing yardsticks of adequate profitability. Foreign opators and
joint-venture opations with foreign participation are generally exempt from the fixed rental
payment and export duty. Taxes levied on foreign opertors and joint-ventures to claw-back
excess* rers   are subject to contract negotiations. These negotiated agreements (a) open
up the possibility of widely varying bases for the assessment and taxation of profits; (b)
render subsequent contract administration complex; and (c) lead to wide variations in the
timing of fiscal revenues to the government for projects with essentially similar expected cash
flow paterns. These possibilities, in addition to the inherently greater scope and incentive
for changes to a heterogenous basis for taxation, complicate negotiations and reinforce a
perception of a potentialy unstable taxation regime and unpredictability of retums to
investments.
12.          Ihe Govenment recognizes the need for (a) a Petroleum Law to codify the
rules goveming petroleum operations and their administration; (b) a taxation law codifying
amnple, in recnt naor  tact egatio, the bases for the taatin of pr   ave fluctuated betee (a) am bas on
ewfw te of retrn wit minimal roytypaymenta and (b) profit x at the standa corpoate ate bad on acued pft,
suppeente by a ding scae roaty based on achived rates of retwr& To protec agist fitur ncas in tax te, inveto
have ogt odfing on ovea effectbv tax ates



16
the assessment of profits, the taxes and their bases to which all petroleum oprations would
be subjected; and (c) model forms of contract oudining the forms and the commeral  ms
and condidons of petroleum concessions and the scope for negotatons. However owing to a
variety of factors, including unfamiliarity with best intenational practice and the need to
forge a good measure of consensus behind final proposals in these areas, progress in
impIlmenng actions has been slow. A draft Petroleum Law was submitted to parliament in
November 1993 for tabling in December 1993. However, due to the dissolution of
parliament to hold new elections, the Law was not considered as scheduled. The draft Law
is scheduled to be conidered by the recently elected parliament during its first sitting session
which commenced in April 1994.
13.         The Transportation Constraints. Another problem that is likely to affect
adversely the timeliness of flows of foreign direct investment into the subsector is the
absence of adequate ansport capacity for the export of oil to international markets.
Curently, Kazakhstan is allocated an intenational oil export transport quota of about 20% of
its annual crude oil production (100,000 b/d) by Russia. This low allocation and the absence
O inf    ite lnk between the country's centers of crude oil production and petrleum
refinery constrains it to exporting about 50% of its current production to Russia where
nominal crude oid export prices under the curent trade agreement are about 36% of
int ional export parity levels currently but actual pnces, based on past discounts (par 5),
could be as low as 11% of intenational export parity level and where payments are subject
to considerable arrears.
14.         A comordum owned equally by Oman, Kazakhstan and Russia - the Caspian
Pipeline Consordum (CPC) - is currently promoting a regional oil export pipeline running
from the Tengiz field in Kazakhstan to the Black Sea port of Novorossiysk The proposed
pipeline would have an inital capacity of 300,000 b/d, utimately expandable to 1.5 million
bid. The esdmated cost of the proposed pipeine is around US$1.0 billion. However, to date,
CPC has been unsucessful in attacting financing from potential users (oil companies wh
gnificant prposed ivestments in Kazakhstan) or financial institutions. This lack of inter
is due largely to the o ni    and capital suctures and the tariff system for the
proposed pipeline which are unorthodox and considered unattractive by many potential
investors and by the potential user of the pipeline. Also, the Government of Turkey has
rased issues of safety and environmental damage which might result from incr g the
transport of petroleum through the Bosphorus and Dardanelles.
Petroleum Refining
15.          .tfg Ca Kity Kazakhstan has  ree refineries with a total effective
capacity of 17 million tons per annum. One refinery, Atyrau, in the north Caspian sea area
processes exclusively domestic crude (wnth a crude oil throughput of 4 million tons in 1992).
Pavlodar, located in the north-easten part of the country, processes minor amounts of crude
oil produced in the region (1 million t  p.a.) but is othrwise dependent on imports from
Russia (6 million tons p.a.). The third refinery is located in Chimkent in the south-easter



17
part of the country where  ee is no local crde oil production and is wholly dependent on
imports of crude oil frm Russia (6 million tons p.a.). The refinies ae of varying vintage
and condition. The Atyrau refinery, built in 1945, is a fuel and lube oil refinery with
obsolete technology and plant. The Chimnkent refinery is a basic hydro-skimming facility with
no secondary conversion units and consequently has a high yield of low-value reidual fuel
oil (over 40% of output). The Pavlodar refinery is a relatively modern fai  with fluidized
catalytic acing fcilities.
16.         etrolem Products Consumption. Total consumption of refined petlm
products in Kazaldstan was estimated at 15.3 million tons in 1992. The most rect and
reliable figures for petroleum product trade indicate that the country is a substantial net
importer of refined products, principaly light products-gasoline and diesel.
17.        Petroleum Products Disi utiopN. Bulk physical distribution of perleum
products is mainly by rail with local distribution by road. Except for a pipeline from the
Chimbent refinery to Tasnt in neighboring Uzbestan and product pipelines serving two
industrial towns in the northemn part of the country from Russia, thae are no product
pipeines in the country. Given the large annual uni-directional volumes of products that are
shpped from the refineries, it is probably more economic to use pipelines for bulk physical
distribution of products.
18.        Rcftn In vestment Pans. The government has a number of plans at the
moment to (1) mcrease the capacity and upgrade the product yield of the Atyrau reinery; (il)
complete the upgrading of the Chimkent refinery to produce a larger yield of light products -
a program started but deferred for the past two years for lack of financial resoures; (iii)
complete the expansion of the capacity of Pavlodar to eport products to Russia; and (iv)
construct a new refinery around Aktau to process the heavy crude with high vanadium
content, ch    c of a sificant proportion of oil production in the Mangyslak region
There is a need to demonstate the technically economic and commercial viability of these
proposed capacity rehabilitation and expansion plans. In addition, the government would need
etral advisoy assstance to raise the financing for viable rehabilitation schemes and
oversee the implementation of rehabilitation works, which will incorporate technologies with
which the country is unmliar.
Sector OgMnizatio
19.        Sector Orkio SnalStructure. The petoleum sector in Kazakhtan is
organied by functional specaliztion under the administat  oversight of two ministies.
Oil and gas production transmission and distibution fall under the Ministry of Fuel and
Energy Resurces, whilst petoleum exloration is under the Ministry of Geology.
20.        The oil and gas production and reed actvities are further organized by
commodity eialization into two main groups. Oil production, refining and trans aion
are managed mostly by functionally-based regional Associations, all of which rept to a



18
holding group for oil-related activities, Munaygas. Five oil regional production associations,
each consisting of oil producing and related opeating and service organizations, account for
all of the country's current oil production. Similarly, all crude oil tanport within the
country is undertak  by four regionally-based pipeline associations. 'Te regional
associations monitor the operating and financial performance of their constituent opeating
units, provide technical and commercial management services, vet and approve capital and
opating budgets and allocate investment resources amongst operting units. Munaygas
oversees the performance of the regional associations and the other entities under its
supervision, provides intemational procurement and marketing services and manages
international financial relations.
21.         Gas production and tansmission are grouped under a holding entity,
Kazakhgas, which provides a similar range of services as Munaygas to the entities under its
supervision. At present, Kazakhgas' portfolio is dominated by the KarachaganaP gas
condensate and gas field and the transit gas transmission line from Turknmenistan and
Uzbekistan to Russia.
22.         In the Ministry of Geology, petroleum exploration activities are managed by
regionally-based exploration drilling and geophysical entities grouped into associations along
fiunctonal lnes. The activities of these entities are financed through budgetary
appropriations from the geologic fund which is derived from taxes on the revenues of oil
producing entities.
23.         In addition to these three main commodity and functional groupings, petroleum
product and gas distribution activities are managed by two holding groups,
Kazakhnefteprodukt and Kazakhgazifikatsia, respectively. A chart of the organizational
structure of the sector is attached as Chart 1.
24.         Deficiencies in Sector Org ado. The current functional basis for the
organization of the enterprises in the sector does not promote the most efficient use of the
subsector's resources. In particular, the fragmentation of production and exploration
activities does not provide adequate incentives for the most efficient use of exploration
resources and the management of discovered reserves. Second, the integraion of all
operating activities in the various industry segments in regional or industry associations
promotes the cross-subsidization of unviable activities and the support of many acdvities that
can be more efficiently managed as separate activities subject to competition from other
firms. Third, the presence of at least two supervisory bodies in every segment of the sector
blurs the separation of ownership, management and regulatory responsibilities. In particular,
the demarcation of responsibilities between the sector Ministries, the regional and national
holding or supemsory groups and the operating entities needs to be more clearly defined.
25.         Without radical restructuring of the industry, these key wealmesses in the
structure of the sector are likely to inhibit the efficient operating performance of the sector



19
and deepen its already diminished ability to maintain, let alone expand, its operating
capacity.
26.         A framework for the re-organization of the sector has been prepared by
consultants under the World Bank TCP for Kazakhstan and was discussed with the
Government in mid-1993.
27.         GvrmentLRestructuring Plans. The govemment recognizes that the
maximum efficiency gains from re-organization of the sector are likely to arse through a
combination of (a) corporatization and commercialization of the sector, (b) restructuring of
sector assets and activities to provide an efficient industrial structure; and (c) privaiztion to
effect changes in ownership and management of enterprises to render them more susceptible
to pressures to achieve satisfactory levels of financial performance. The main issues are the
appropriate sequencing of these actions, the period over which they should be implemented
fully and the final scope of restructuring and privatization, including the integration of
petroleum exploration and producing activities within enterprises.
28.         The Government's sector reorganization strategy has been to first clarify the
mandate of the supervisory bodies in the sector. This is to be followed by the initial
corporatization of the sector under its current structure, followed by increasingly more far-
reaching re-organization and privatization.
29.         As a AMLIgo in the implementation of this strategy, the Government issued a
decree in September 1993 providing for the transfer of its controlling ownership interest in
sector enterprises to the (wholly Government-owned) sectoral holding companies. The
holding companies' mandate include overseeing the process of corporatization and
privaization under the guidance of the SPC and ensuring that the companies in their portfolio
earn adequate returns on their assets. Initially, the Govemment would maintan control,
through the holding companies in the incorporated operMing companies in the sector, with its
equity interest in the entities varying from 51% to 90%
30.         Second, following incorporation of sector activities, a program to privatize
sector activities that can be operated competitively wnth few regulatory and admunistrative
compleities would be initiated. This program would cover such activities as petroleum
products and bottled gas distribution. Bulk storage facilities operated by the existing entiies
- a potential source of market dominance and reduced competition and operating efficiency
if assigned to a single operator - would be transferred to municipalities or oblasts in which
they are located for subsequent divestment. These privatzation activities would be conducted
under the SPC's mass privatization program.
31.         Third, a broader program of restructuring of the remaining sector entities and
divestitre of Government ownership or management control would be embarked upon after
completion of these two phases.



20
32.         In addition to these steps, the exploration associadons under the Ministry of
Geology are to be incorporated as joint-stock companies and a scheme to allow oil production
companies to direcly finance the acdvities of specific exploration compaies in lieu of
payment of geologic taxes is under consideration. Lhe rights of oil producing and
exploration companies over the reserves currently under their control would be defined under
the licensing provisions of the proposed Petroleum Law.
33.         A number of important issues related to this strategy are unclear or
unresolved. In particular, whether corporatization will be at the level of the regional
associations as integrted entities or will include the separate incorporation of existing
chated enterprises and significant operating entities within regional or industry associatons
has yet to be settled. Also, a definitive timetable for the re-organizon of the industry has
yet to be formulated by the Government.
34.         Work on the prvatization of potentally separable smal scale activities in the
ditribution sector was scheduled to stAt after the harvest season of 1993 to avoid the risk of
disruption of fuel supplies to the agricultural sector. However, this was delayed owing pardy
to the lack of capacity of the holding companies to underake such a task. The
implementation of a plan for the full re-organization of the sector is envisaged to take four or
five years. However, no milestones for such activity have been established. Nonetheless, the
Govm ment plans to privaie a number of the regional oil production associations in the
nea future with the financial advice of foreign investment institutions.
35.         During negotiations agreement was reached with the Govemment that it would
submit to the Bank a Restructuring Action and Implementation Plan (RAIP) for the sector,
satisfactory tothe Bank, by no later than July 31, 1994. The RAEP would cover the scope
and timing of key restructuring actions proposed for the sector. Consultants, to be financed
under the project, would assist the Government in the finlization of the RAIP. Sasactory
implementation of the RAIP would be a covenanted agreement.
SiCIONB: Detailed Pro*ec ligiop
36.         Afti= Sexe fo¢ Poreig nvbestet and Pr omotion: Ibi componet
consists of four parts as follows:
Investment Advisory Services: This sub-component would address the
rqiee  of the Government and enterprises in the subsector for support in
(I) the review of investment proposals from potential foreign investors in the
petroleum sector, (ii) the fonnulation of instment proposals and financing
packages by the Government and sector enterprses; (iii) the negotiations of
investment proposals with prospective investors; (iv) the establishment of
procedures and systems for the adinistration of negotiated agreements in the



21
oil indury; and (v) raising of financing for the domestic industry's
contributiot to agreed investment financing plans. The services would provide
coveage for tecfnical and financal aspect of invesment proposals and
negoaons. The number of investmt proposals under onsidn or
presented to the Government and domestic industry at any given point i time
is age. Investment proposals also vary significantly in quality and their
potential impact on the performance of the industry and the economy. To
ensure that the investment advisory services resources are focused on the
highest priority investment activity in tie sector, agreement was reached
during negotiations on the submission by the Government to the Bank, on a
six-monthly basis beging with negotiations, of a short-list of projects
proposed to be worked upon by the investment advisors. During negotiati,
it was agreed that the first advisory acdvity under this component would focus
on the promotion of an investment memorandum to atuact foreign diect
investment and management to the Uzen oil field.
La Advsoy Service: This sub-component would provide assstance to the
Government and sector enterprises in negotiating specific investment
tansactions as they arise. The scope of this assistance would include the
identification of cnrcal legal issues and possible forms of solutions to suh
issues, as well as the drafting, as necessary, of agreements and disclosue
letters. The selected firm would also assist the Goverment, as required, in
reviwing, and updating aspects of the commercidal code and administrai  law
applicable to major investment projects under consideration. The legal advisory
services would be provided primarily on an as-called for basis.
Advisory Services for Petroleum Leislation and Taxation. This sub-
component would provide assistance to the Government to (i) finaize a draft
of the Petoem Law;, and (ii) to formulate and enact specific txation policies
for petroleum operations. These actvities would continue and complete the
work already started under the Technical Cooperation Agreement between
Kazakstan ,and the Bank.
TMaini&g in hvscnent AWisal and Negotia,tions: This sub-component
would provide for the training of local staff engaged in petroleum negotiations
and contract administration in the negotiaion of investment agreements
petoleum economics, investment apraia and the featue of different forms
of petroleum agreements. Provision would be made under this component for
seected staff to attend specific training seminars abroad, as wel as for the
financing of secondments to the negotiating departments of selected
interational oil companies.
37.         E ntse Rcuwrins low. This component would support Goverment
initives to restuture the petroleum subsector. The Government recognizes that any



22
meaningful progmam of re-organization and restructung would require extemal support to,
inter-alia (i) demarcate in detail the operations and assets of new entities that need to be
created to achieve an efficient industrial structure; (ii) establish the capitaiation
requirments and capial structure of the new enterprises to be created and incorporated; (iii)
establish performance objectives for such enterprises, and institute management control and
accounting procedures for the supervision of the performance of the enterprises; (iv) help
oversee the management of the multiplicity of such task that would need to be undertaken.
The proposed project component would provide extenal support to implement the above
series of actions as follows:
(a) QMIMM&atio Supor: This sub-component is designed to support the
first phase of the Government's proposed plans to reform the petroleum
industry. It is proposed to provide assistance to Munaygas, Kazakhgas,
Kazakhgazifilkatsia and Kazaknefteprodukt to introduce financial and
management control procedures to ensure the effective performance of the
enterprises under their control. The assistance would be to: (i) establish
operating and capital (investment) budgeting procedures for entities under their
initial control; (ii) set up reporting requirements for the entities including
establishing appropriate accounting policies for the various operating units; (iii)
establish financial and operating performance appraisal systemrs to strengthen
their capacity for, inter-alia, analyzing periodic restults of the operating
entities, setting appropriate financial and operating objectives and undertaking
or managing operating and financial audits; and (iv) establish corporate
(enterprise board-level) administration procedures. A complementary part of
these activities would be the computerization of the accounting and
management information systems of Munaygas and of the preparation of final
reports which would be submitted to it by the enterprises.
(b) Restructuring and Privatization Support: Under this sub-component,
assistance would be provided to MEFR to engage the services of consultants
to: (i) assist in defining and implementing options for the
restructuring/rationalization (demarcation of the assets and operations) of
selected entities and operating activities in the industry to support efficient
operations; (ii) provide support to the holding companies in incorporating
activities under their control; and (iii) undertake investigations of the financial
position of restructured enterprises as well as prepare preliminary valuation of
enterprises proposed to be privatized.
38.          igeline Feasibility Studies. Two sets of studies are proposed to be financed
under this component. One set of studies would determine the technical and economic merits
of bulk petroleum product transport by pipeline between the three refineries and their major
market areas compared to the continuation of the present system of product transport by rail.
In addition to the economic and technical evaluation, the studies would include the
preparation of tender documents for the engineering and construction of the pipelines



23
assessed as viable. The second set of studies would evaluate the economic feasibiity as well
as the most cost-effective method of undertakdng the Government's plans to construct a crude
ol pipeline fiom Koschagil in the western part of the country to Kumkol in the east. The
scope of work would also include the preparation of tender documents for final engineeing
and construction of an optimal facility. Assistance in structuring financing proposals and
organizional arrangements for the management and ownership of such facilities, and in
formuladng strategies for attracting financing would be provided under the Investment
Advisory Services component of the project.
39.         Natural Gas Investment Stratgy. Natural gas utilization in Kazakhstan is very
low (at about 15 billion cubic meters p.a.) in comparison to the other republics of the FSU.
Currently, natural gas accounts for 15% of total domestic energy consumption compared to
about 40% in the FSU. This situation is the result of gas production, processing,
tasmission, and distrution constraints and the relatively large role played by coal in
domestic energy supplies. Currently, gas service is available in only 9 of the republic's 19
oblasts (regions), and large portions of the republic, especially in the central and northeastern
regions, are without gas service; however, there is significant use of liquified petroleum
gases (LPGs) in these areas. At present, Kazakhstan's gas supplies are dominated by imports.
This places growing pressure on the republic's financial resources as regional gas trade
prices move towards 'world market" levels.
40.         This proposed component would assist the Government of Kazakhstan to
establish a framework for future investments in the gas sector to address these supply
problems. Under this component, least cost strategies for meeting prospective domestic
demand, both through imports and domestic production, processing and enhanced distribution
linkages would be examined in detail.
41.         Project Implementation Support. This component would help finance the
establishment of a PIU and advisory services to the unit. Advisory services would cover
project scheduling and monitoring, design of a project cost accounting system, and support
for the procurement of goods and services in line with Bank guidelines. One project
management advisor is envisaged for a period of 12 months starting prior to loan
effectiveness and financed initially out of an advance from the PPF. In addition, it is
proposed to engage the services of a procurement specialist for about 6 man-months to assist
the PIU with preparation of bid documents and the evaluation of bid and consultant
proposals. The component would also help finance (i) training in World Bank procurement
and disbursement procedures for the local staff of the PIU and selected staff from the
implementing agencies; and (ii) the engagement of consultants to assist in the design of
monitoring systems and other tasks on an ad-hoc basis. Training of selected staff from the
implementing agencies has already commenced, financed through an Advance from the PPF
and bilateral sources.
42.         Petroleum Indusfty Training Program. Technical skills in the petroleum
subsector are good. However, knowledge of western technology and of the operational and



24
commerc  management techniques required to perform effectively in a market orented oil
industry is extremely limited. This gap in the industry's skills profle would need to be
closed rapidly if its efficiency and profitability is to be improved on a sustainable basis. This
component is designed to address this issue.The component would cover the following:
(a) Analys ofnagMmenLTraining Needs: This activity would entail the
engegement of consultants to identify, in detail, areas of management wealmess
or training need - both functional and geneal - in each of the industries in
the subsector and to develop appropriate case studies and complementary
courses in management techniques for training of staff.
(b) Secondments and Fellowships: Management training is an essential tool
to change management style. However, there are few incentives and little
pressure to change management style at present. The need for profound
changes in the inhented management styles and systems is widely considered
by enterprises managers in the sector to be unnecessary. Secondments to firms
abroad can serve an important purpose in exposng senior and middle
management in the sector to the organizational culture, performance
expectation and management techniques in use in well-managed market-
oriented firms and in sensitizing key sector managers to the need for change.
A program of secondments to overseas firms is already in place in the
industry, organized with the assistance of institutions in Russia. However,
these secondments are generally of insufficient duration and are not necessarily
relevant to the emerging needs of the indusry in Kazakhstan. In addition, the
process of selection of candidates does not necessarily lead to the best match
between selected candidates, secondment opportunities and enterprise
performance objectives. This subcomponent would help finance redesign of the
program of secondment, and the cost of selected secondments to organiions
abroad.
(c) English Language Training: English is the most important language for
international communication in the industry, both in professional fields and
commercial transactions. The absence of a reasonable grasp of the language
amongst a broad layer of senior and middle management in the industry would
constrain the opportunities for professional development and fmiliazaton
with future developments in the international industry into which the country
aspires to be effectively integrated. There is already broad familiarity with the
language through secondary schooling. This sub-component would support a
program of English language training (principally through self-instruction) for
mid-level and senior managers in the industry. The program would be based
on the development of a video and cassette library and library of English-
language professional journals.



25
(d) Speiized T_i,,ning: There is a demonstrated need for familiarization of
the relevant professional staff with sources, specifications, strategies and
methods for procurement of oil field equipment from the west as well as with
the inteaonal marketing of crude oil and petroleum products. Provision will
be made under the project for development of courses in these areas. Other
areas of urgent need for hmiliartion with international standards,
institutions or practices may arise during the project and a provision to cover
such contingent needs would also be made.
(e) Management of Training Program: It is proposed to provide for the
services of training consultants to help estaolish and manage the above
program and to assist in the review and revamping of current prescribed
training policies in the industry.
Section C: Project Costs, Financing. Procurement. Disbursements. Reporting
and Project Management
I.          Aoject Costs
43.         The total project cost is estimated at US$19.6 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$17.5 million or about 90% of total costs. The project costs are estimated
on the basis of an overall three year implementation schedule. Unit costs of advisory and
consultant servces are based on man-month rates quoted by firms for one of the proposed
project components for which invitations to bid have been issued and from rates quoted for
other similar consultant servces in the region. Price escalation of 2% per annum and
contingencies of about 12% have been applied to all project components. Detailed project
costs are shown at Annex 1.
II.         PrWect Financing
44.         The proposed Bank loan would finance 80% of the total project costs
(US$15.7 million), excluding taxes and duties. Local costs are expected to be mostly in the
form of support services and office space and facilities and seconded staff and would be
provided by the beneficiary agencies and the Government.
mI.         Procurement
45.         The proposed procurement packages are detailed in Annex 2. The proposed
procurement procedures are as follows: (a) Contracts for TA and Training Components: The
selection processes for all consulting, advisory and training services would be based on the
Bank's 'Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency* (August 1981); the selection of individual consultants and advisors



26
would be on the basis of the comparison of the curriculum vitae of at least 3 persons;
(b) Equipment and Supplies: Equipment to be procured under the project consists of
computers and office equipment of a varied nature and of relatively low value. Items or
group of items of equipment and supplies estimated to cost US$10,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Items
or groups of items of equipment and supplies estimated to cost over US$10,000 equivalent up
to an aggregate amount of US$600,000, would be procured through International Shopping
based on the comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least three different eligible countries, and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank; (c) Training: Secondment Program. The cost of secondments abroad under the
Petroleum Industry Training component of the project (estimated total base cost of US$1.2
million) consists mainly of the estimated cost of air transport and subsistence for candidates.
A small provision has also been made for the cost of attendance at training institutions during
periods of secondment. Traditionally, major companies in the international petroleum
industry do not charge for offering exposure to their working and management practices to
selected overseas candidates. During negotiations, agreement was reached that MEFR would
select candidates for secondments and the companies and institutions to which selected
candidates would be attached based on criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
46.         Contract Review. All contracts above US$100,000 for goods would be subject
to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. The balance of packages for the
procurement of goods would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract
award to ensure compliance with Bank guidelines. In the case of consultant and advisory
services, all contracts above US$50,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. In addition, and irrespective of the contract value, the
following would be subject to prior Bank review and approval: (1) all terms of reference for
all consultant and advisory services contracts; (ii) all procurement documentation for
contracts proposed to be awarded to individuals or to firms on a single source basis; (iii) all
procurement documentation for contracts for assignments judged to be of a critical nature by
the Bank; and (iv) amendments of contracts raising the contract value to US$50,000
equivalent or above.
IV.         Disbursements
47.   Disbursements against the proposed Bank loan are expected to be as follows: (i)100%
of expenditures on consultants' services and training; (ii) office equipment, software, etc:
10)% of the foreign expenditures Qr 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
eligible goods _ 75% of the cost of other domestic purchases. Disbursements would be fully
documented except for contracts for consultant services and equipment not exceeding
US$50,000 for which disbursements would be on the basis of statements of expenditures
(SOEs). The documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for at least



27
one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the
auditors and the Bank upon request. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
disbursements against expenditures for the Petroleum Industry Training component would
only be made after the Bank has received evidence that the Govemnment has estabLshed the
Training Center and the Advisory Board for the Training Center in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (para 50).
48.  In order to expedite the disbursement of funds, a special account with an initial
deposit of US$1.6 million would be established and would be replenished in accordance with
procedures agreed at negotiations. The estimated schedule of disbursements of the proposed
Loan is shown at Schedule B of this document. The project is expected to be completed by
January 31, 1997, with the closing date scheduled for July 31, 1997.
V.Poject Management
49.     ject Executing Rnsibilii. The distribution of responsilifies for the
execution of the project components is depicted in  hart 2. The distnbution of responsiility
for execution of project components would be as follows: (a) MEFR, through its relevant
specialized department, would be the executing agency for studies concemed with (i) the
formulation of future investment strategies in the sector; and (ii) the development of
investment plans for activities for which no defined enterprise is cunrently responsible. This
executing responsibility would cover the Natural Gas Investment Stategy and the Pipeline
Feasibility Studies components; (b) Industry-wide restructuring (including the scope of
operation of the designated holding company) would be the responsibility of MEFR; (c)
MdEER would be the executing agency for aUl the activities under the Foreign Investment
Negotiations and Promotion Investment Advisory Services Component; (d) Studies and
technical assistance to strengthen the management capacity and operating performance of the
industry would be managed by the four holding companies in their respectve industies. This
executing responsibility would cover the Corporatization Support for the Petroleum Industry
component of the proposed project; (e) MEFR would have overall responsibility for the
implementation of the training component and would establish a Training Center to manage
the activities to be undertaken under the component. The Training Center's responsibilities
would include: (i) the determination of courses to be prepared under the project; (ii) the
selection of consultants; (ifi) the selection and accreditation of institutions for the delivery of
courses; (iv) the dissemination and updating of training material; (v) the preparation of a
program of a secondments abroad; and (vi) the selection of candidates for sesondment
abroad. To ensure that the Center is responsive to the training needs of the sector, an
Advisory Board, with majonty representation by the four holding companies and other
petroleum sector enterprises would be established to oversee the work of the Center. The
Advisory Board would advise on the content, scope and timing of the training programs to be
carried out under the project and would assist in the supemsion and evaluation of such
programs.



28
50.  Agreement was reached duing negotiations ta the truning programs to be
undertn under the project, duly evaluated and approved by the advisory Board, together
with an implementation schedule would be submitted to the Bank for its approval. It was
also agreed that, not later than September 30 of each year, MEFR shall review with the Bank
the training pzograms to be canied out in the ensuing calendar year. The esblishment of a
Training Center and the appointment of an Advisory Board, satisfactory to the Bank, is a
condition of disbursement for the Petroleum Industry Taining component.
51.   A detailed Implementaton Schedule is attached as A=  3. An Implementation Plan
is attached as Annex 4. The key elements of the implementation process have been included
as covenanted agreements in the Loan Agreement. During the proposed Project Launch
Workshop (para 58), written agreement would be sought with MEFR on detailed project
performance indicators to serve as a basis for the mutual monitoring and supervison of the
project.
VI.  R       g and Monitoring
52.   During negotiations, the following accounting and auditing anrangements were agreed
upon: (a) :tWect Accounts (i) that the four participating holding companies maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, the operations, revenues, expenditures and resources of the activities to be
implemented by them under the project; (ii) the PIU prepares and maintains project accounts
for all components implemented by MEFR and quarterly consoLhdated accounts for the
project as whole; (b) agdt: (i) the project accounts for the MEFR components, al
disbursements against SOEs, and the project accounts maintained by the particpating holding
companies would be audited separtely and on an annual basis by independent auditors
acceptable to Banl; (ii) that aU audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than
six months after the end of the year to which they relate. The following arrangements for
monitoring and rporting were agreed upon during negotiations: (i) that the PIU would
provide, on a quarterly basis and no later than one month after the close of the relevant
quarter, consolidatd reports on project implementaton progress covering the status of
(a)procurement; (b) the conduct of studies, advisory services and training; and (c) decisions
taken or prwposed to be take by the Government on key findings and recommendations; (ii)
mid-tem review: the Government would prepare, one month prior to the review, a report
detailing progress in project activities including a summary of the recommendations of the
studies financed and follow-up aclions taken or that are planned to be taken by the
Government and the participating entrprises.
53.   At this stage, accounting standards in the country and accounting policies pursued by
the enterprises in the pem   sector do not conform to (international) generally accepted
accounting (GAAP) standards. The holding companies, although intended to be relatively
slim corporations with few direct operating activities, would be required under generally
accepted accounting principles to consolidate the financial results of all their subsidiares and
to adopt appWpriate procedures for the incorporation of the performance of their associated



29
enterprises into their financial statements. At present, accounts are not provided on a
consolidated basis in conformity with GAAP. Finally, there is no tradition of systematic
intemal audits and controls. At this point it is neither cost efficient nor practical to expect
the participating companies to be able to produce consolidated financial statements that can
be subject to satisfactory audit under genera}ly accepted auditing standards. One of the key
components of the project would assist in the development of accounting procedures and
standards and consolidation practices within the sector.
54.   OvemQ   Poect Manua=: MEFR as the responsible supervisory minstry would
have overall responsibility for the management of the project. MEFR would be responsible
for overall monitoring of project implementation and for ensuring that aU key agencies
concerned with the management of the petroleum subsector provide appropriate inputs into
the steps to be taken for the implementation or review of the recommendations arising from
the studies and advisory services to be financed under the project. To ensure that ere is an
appropriately senior official in MEFR to act as a focal point for resolving major
implementation issues as they arise, the Minister of MEFR has appointed a Deputy Minister
to have specific responsibility for overseeing the project.
55. The PIU: To assist MEFR in the coordination and monitoring of the project and to
ensure that the project components are implemented in accordance with applicable World
Bank Guidelines and procedures, a P1U would be established within MEFR to assist the
executing agencies and depatmnts witin MEFR in project implementation. The PIU would
also provide secretari services to the Deputy Minister in the form of preparation of periodic
and ad-hoc reports on project implementation and significant issues arising from the work of
service providers requiring resolution, clearance or further action by the Government.
56.  IThe relative responsibilities of the PIU and the project executing agencies are depicted
in Chart 3 The specific project implementation role of the PIU would cover the following:
(a) Finalize Bid Packages;
(b) Recive and coordinate responses to calls for proposals and bids;
(c) Advice on the evaluation of bids;
(d) Review draft contracts negotiated by the executing agencies;
(e) Track progress in implementation of aU components and
prepare monthly progress reports;
(f) Prepare consolidated project cost accounts;



30
(g) Manage the procurement process and contract compliance for the components to be
executed by MEFR;
(h) Process and review applications for withdrawal of funds from the loan account.
57.   The head of the PIU would be recruited locally and should be of sufficient
professional seniority to be able to interact successfully with the various project participants.
It is envisaged that (s)he would be assisted by (i) an accountant who will maintain the project
accounts; and (ii) two other professional staff drawn from the subsector. To assist the PIU,
provision has been made under the project for (i) the recruitment of a project management
advisor for one year(the first year of project implementation); (ii) a foreign procurement
specialist for about six months; and (iii) the engagement of foreign and local consultants on
an adhoc basis for a total of about six man-months to help in the design of accounting and
project reporting systems and other areas of project administration.
58.   SMdesion. A detailed supervision plan for the project is provided at Section
below.
59.  Poect Launch W    ksho. It is proposed to have a project launch workshop no later
than two months after Board Presentation to review with the project participants the
implementation arrangements and implementation schedule for the project.
Section D: Supervision
60.   General The use of advisory services and independent and external assessment of
investment strategies and proposals is relatively new in Kazakhstaim. The key areas of
assstanc span the interest or responsibility of various parties besides the designated
executing agencies. Kazakhstan is new to the Bank and its procedures. Finally, the project
must be completed in a relatively short period of time if it is to be of full economic relevance
to the country. Accordingly, supervision of the project would need to be very intensive to
support the decision-maldng process in the country and to ensure that bottlenecks to its
smooth implementation are addressed quickly and resolved.
61.  Bank .uenisim I": Bank staff input into the supervision of the proposed prject
will take the following forms:
(a) Portfolio Minagenre: The review of progress reports and procurement
documentation and the correspondence and internal reporting related to such activities are
estimated to require six staff weeks in the first years of project implementation, declining
to four staff weeks in the subsequent two years.



31
O) Field SgeraisDa: Following Board approval, supervision missions will be fieled
on a quarterly basis statng no aer tan one month after Board presentation. Field
supervision will cover the following areas:
(i) Review of procurement issues and the working of project
implementadon arrangements;
(ii) Review with Munaigas, rzntatives of the other
participatng holding companies MEFR and service providers of
the progress of specific activities under implementation, and of
key problem areas in implementation and actions taken or
planned to be taken to resolve them;
(iii) Review with MEFR of the performance of the industry and
petroleum sector in general.
MER   and Particgating Ente=d=e Contribution IQ Su eniso
62.         Aside from the penodic reports to be povided to the Bank in the form and to
the me schedule to be agreed at negodations, the PIU will prepare on behalf of the
axecuting agencies prior to every supervion after the first one, an issues paper sumrng
progress to date on project Implementation and the key outstanding issues to be resoived as
well as a revised implementation schedule for the project. This issues paper will form the
core agenda of the missions work.
63.         At the end of each mission, an aide memoire will be prepared summaii the
mission's major findings, the issues requiring the Government's and the Bank's attention and
proposed actions to resolve identified problem areas.



32
Fmw  SUPERISON   PLAN
ApatDmatc DeftpedeCd                                                                                  Sotaf 
(nionthJ3nd                           earm                                                         (gStaffXI"p
06/94             Project L*Wuni                              Finan    Speclalist/                     12
Rview of and Agreemen an Implementation    Task Manae, Petoleum
Schdule and  Pi and arrangeme              Idusfty Resytuct
for p-at m_oiing and                       Speda:ist Refinery Speddais
-                                          PNoj Manam_t
Review af rpotnS/ acountin g               Consaut
rIremet Review Of ProcBu_rent              Ener  Ecnmist, Lawyr,
Review of work Pogwams                     Disbument Offic
Subtotal FY94                                                                                         Ia
09/94             Review ot progrs in                         Petolecum Indu                            6
procurment, implementation                 Resuuring Spei,
of servcs issues pted by PIU               Task Manag  Oper ans
Specaliss
12/94             1rvew of outpu of service                   Task Manger                               6
proier rview of iue                        Operton Specilist
penead  by PIU                             Engy Economist
09p5             MAdtem Review.                              Task M     r                             8
A_ment of project prognes6 to              Operatios Spedalist
date; determination of net steps           Eeg Foomist
in prjct Implementation to                 RSpit
acdiee poject objcves re-
sion of project implmentation
schedule
06/95             RePew of Projet Implemntatio               Ts Manaer                                 6
RRSpciaSpd
Economist
Subtotal FT 95
FY 96             Review of project                          Task Manager/                          24 Toal
implematon                                 Operations Spedalist (as
09/96             Fnal Superviion Misdon                     Task Manager/Special                     6
(as required)
02/97             Projet Comple  Review                      Tsk Manwer                               2



Annex 1
Pace 1 of 2
REPUBUC OF KAZAXHSTAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
.COST ESTIMTE
(US$ 000)
Foia    Toud as X
.~~~~~~~~~LsQ                     of Total Itl] ;s
Lad  Forein            E9z I n    ImJL1
A. IDstutonal Development                    1,377      13,109    14,486      90           8S
1. Fareig  nvdestet Negoth_io
a_ IPromotion                             S82       5,298     5,880       90           3S
1.1  Admry S*nW  oc:                     557       5,018     5,575       90
(a) investment                         532        4,788    5,320       90
= Financili                          400       3,600     4,000       90
- 1A*l                               132       1,188     1,320       90
(b) PEtlum Legislation                    7          68        75       91
(c) Petoleum  Taxaton                    18         162       180       90
1.2 ?houdng                                25          230      255       90
(a) Semnam sinKazakhsan                  10          90      100        90
(b) FeUowships abroad                    1S         140      5SS        90
1.3 Officeb EqipmnI                         0            S0      50       100
2. Sbppo4t for Rdnwtaitg4E &479                        4,807     5,286       91          31
2.1 Rea*wCsu*a                             274        2,466    2.740       90
(a) Cnsultisg ServIes:                   274       2,466     2,740       90
-Orpnicaion                           120       1,080     1,200       90
- Acounting and Financial
In1estio                            154       1,386     1,540      90
2.2 C4,PwMtwdns&                           205       1,341     2,546       92
(a) Consuting Seios                    205        1,841    2,046       90
-C     _ praEt Plmalg&                205        1,841    2,046       90
Fncial Mangement
O) Office Equ*penlt                       0          500     S50        100
Total (Page  )                           1,061      10,10s    11,166       90
Computr and Softwae, Photocopy Machines, Communicaions wpment & Supplies



Annex 1
Paae 2 of 2,
Totl a t
ForeLan    Cost gf
as   of         a
Lochl  Z2Lan    Total          Total  Base Cout
Total (Pea 1)                        1,061    10,105   10,166          90
3. Petroleum Industry Tralzlng                  316     3,004    3,320          90       20
3.1  Consulting Sevices                       9        14       1.260        90
(it) A _mmt of bdsry Trang
Needs & Dveopment of Cm             120       1,080    1,200         90
(6) A_ssc   in Tani  Managme             36       324       360         90
(c) Pepaaion  of Specild Coure           40       360       400         90
(d) English laguage Taining              0         100    .100         100
3.2  T _ninr Sand ts Abroad                 120      1,080    1,200          90
3.3  Offce Equipnmyt                          Q          60      60        100
IL Prt e pahWatio and pluInmmtI'n tSuppot          232       2,236    2,468         91       15
1.  SpeUne FwLbil4ty S&dlm                       70        640       710        90        4
1.1  Domesticcrodo R pipeline                 26       239       265         90
1.2  Refined produ pipeipnes                  44       401       445         90
2  Natura Gui Irnonwtm  Srategy &Udy            110        990     1,100        90        6
3. ftqfea InWMmotadon Uni (fPU)                  S2        606      658         92        4
3.1  Advisor.                                52        476      528          90
(a) PQie pManagement                    26        238       264        90
(b)EProcurnlr                           13        119       132        90
(c) Awcunting mdReporting               13        119       132         so
3.2  Training Seminar in Kakhstmn and
abrad                0        100       100       100
3.3  Office Equinat1                          0          30       30        100
Total Base Cost                            1,609    15,345   16,954          91      (6
Contigenic                                  427      2,185    2,612
Plroject Total Cost                      2,036      17,530   19,566          90
Compute and Softwarn, Photoopy Machine., Conicaions Equdpment & Supplies
B B1 and 2 are oxpeed to be financed by USAID.



RUDUC OP Z
PETOLU   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Bstimted Costs, excluding contigencies, by Major Contract and
Schedule of Critical Procurement Steps Under The World Bank Loan
comp_An ,  .  ," of    No's,
Sm      Puuusewmsat   of Siin imati              of
11_t          s co"d  _moumma-  o    to a         condt
A. CPm th kWAI  X     X'i PC.4Ag
- weWt (41 Pkmuw - Umn                                      1,40        Shut IAt       12/3         1219        05/4%
1W FtwuI .*adb tWWtibenAUN                             2           Sbot AiM       11li4        12194       @319
-.Caftmot3l La419WO47                                                   Shuc= tIM014/9124
06 ft.bu. LqiibUu ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     bAbft
4s wp7 6,
64*M f oru2 @                                                                            asner* a                 wsdbn
oceg  f . .NN   0tw94
b   b P_  T   WA
d Va fthsVmm P -TW                                             4 7
* c_u e    _u     _u
_ .,.__2_1.__.__,_________________    2,066.                                 ... Shu , M _   01/3     * 29            05/
-O 
0



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
~-4
O_                                I
]0 ~                     _____''''  -' 1
i0gg        ~~1'-  1  1              I1 
q S i;   _ ~~~I 
a|]U~~   fuvU<1
g R   13 _i liii



REPUBUC OF KAZAKUSrAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Costs, excluding contingencies by Major Contract and
Schedule of Critical Procurement Steps Under The World Bank Loan
Be             Method            of P44mg     abllulld      Of
C. am".. _Powmt                                                640
3. FMieg Invimme NoGoelsem  ad PrM063u                       so    bfotWAi0L*CaJ"-
Shappkif
2. Cuosuktlo                                                        '-   .*                                 _
Sbo24A_g                    .-                        .
4.Pectl Ui                                    3~~~~~~0 Sl_4 aLm-                               ,,
hPpogp .h .g
4. FtOjeo IIkm1.. Uk                                         30     iaIoLod1
P oge3    -Tato                         64                                             _ _  __   _  _  _ _
F. Gnd Tot texdtn o.elkgmds)                                 16_144
to,u6qmt  .o o.m*   t.  _*i _il _t~ .   lW .   '
buWd CaOoSM to        of CompAsu eal  Saom  Ftomupv Mal  Co.mmuwANufr IpG**a & gumppb
d_o s6G    rmw    bM ad muWA dW_  du OMse.wdPdbmmb
'Lod  C   is Oua w d WA     .WW -qP asd. of W  *OW. 



KAZAKIHSTAN
Petroleum Technical Assistance Proect
Project Implementation Sdcedule (Sunmary Tasks)
_      199             19i5           1996            1997
ID   Name                                                      Duration Scheduled Sta Scheduled FW ini            I I      WPM I  f |                JIF| 4J
I   (A) Foin Investment Negotiions and Pomtions                  614d        121/l93        4N896 J _
2       (8)Constas Srevioes (Uzen Oil Field)                    390.5d       1211/93       5/31195 9w       _
13      (b) Consultants Senilces (Invesmernt Aciy to be Agreed)  331 5d        811/94      117/96 na
24       (c)Colts Seies (Investment Actity to be Agreed)          331d       12131f94       4/8
35       (d) Consultants Sen,lces: Petroleum Legislation           78d        6/16194      9/894              _
40       (e) Consultanrs Senvices: Petroleum Taxation             274d        5115/94       611/95
51   (8) Support to Restruturing & Corportation of the Petroleum Ind.    f74d  1211/94       711/97
52       (a) Consulanrts Services, Restructuring (Org., Accounting & Fi    674d  12/1/94    7/1/97                                                          -
63       (b) Consultants Serices Corporatizaton(Plann. & Fin. Mang.)   651 .5d  111195      7/1/97                  q
74   (C) Petroleum Industry Training                              618d        9/16/94       1128/97 _
85   (0) Studies                                                  409d        5/16/94       12/7/95
88       (a)Domstic Crude OiD Pipeline                            274d        5116194        6/1/95
97       (b) Refined Product Pipeflne(Feasbiky)                   274d        5f16/94       611195
108      (c) Natural Gas Investment                               409d        5/16/94       1217/95
119  (E) Trairing                                                 668d        6/10/94      12131/96
120      (a) Foreign Investment Negotiations and Promotion        407d       10/10/94       4130196
123      (b) Petroleum Industry                                   490d        2/15/95      12/31/96
125      (c) Prject Implementation Unit                             81d       6/10194       9/30/94
127  (F) Goods: Office Equipment and other Supplies               331d        6/10/94       9/15/95
128      (a) Foreign Investment Negotiatons and Promotion          85d        6110/94       10619/4           _
137      (b) for Corporatizatin Component                          100d        5/11/95      9/15195
146      (c) for Petrolum Industry Training Component              90d         3/195         7i4/95                       _
155      (d) for ProJec Inpierentation Unit                        80d        6/10/94       9/29/94 
Project                            Crtica           505/srtIca   Progress                      Summary                                                                     x
Date: 52/94                        Noncrkcal                     Milestone *                   Rolled Up *o
,     .                                                               .    _ .                  .    _ __                      fb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



KAZAKItSTAN
Petroleum Techivcal Assistance Project
Prject _mentalon Schedule
.                                                                    _        1994~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  *9956  199  ..9           .
ID   Nane                                                        Duration Scheduled St SchedutedFt                      JHW 14       |         WFTp15
I   A: Foreign Investment Negoiafions and Promot                    614d       12V1193        4O9M  5 _
2        (a)Costmft  Services (Uzen 0l Fied                       390.5d       1211m93       5/31/95 _
3            Fnabe LOI(Shodlist, TOR and Draft Contract)              2w       1211193      12114193
4            Banks Review and Comments                                1w      121593        121193
5            Infite Prposal                                           2d      12122193      1223193
6            Prpation and Subm         of Prposas                   4.5w      12V24193       l/25/94
7            Evauate Poposals and send Report to Bank for Review    3.6w       1/25/94       2118/94
8            Bankc'S Review and Comnents                              2d       2/16/94       2/2/94
9            Negotiate bnle and sign contact                         11w       212294        5110/94
t0           Seek No Obcion frm the Bank                              1w       5/10194       5/17/94
1t           Award Contract                                         2.2w       5t17/94        6/1/94
12           Cay out Assgnent                                        52w        6/1/94       5i31/95
13      (b) Consls Sevices (InvestmentAcmftto be Agreed            331 S.5d     811/94       1117/95
14           Fnakze LOI( Shot   TOR & Draft Contact)                  1w        8/1/94        8/5/94
15           Bankes Review and Comments                              1.1w       8/8/94       8115/94
16           Invite ProposaS                                          Od       815/94        8/15/94
17           Preparatio and SubInssIon of Prposals                    6w       8/15194       9126/94
18           Evaluate Proposais and send Repo to Bank for Review    2.2w        MOM         10/11/94
19           Bank's Review and Comment                                1w      10/11/94      10/18/94
20           Negoe. finabze and sign cnact                            lw      10/18/94      10125194
21           Seek No Obection from teBank                             lw      10/25/94       1111194
22           Award Contad    .                                        1w       11/1/94       11/8/94
_aW        .                        ..                                                
ctCrItca                                                           Progres                       Sutmmr   fi
atae: 5/2/94                        NopnJao                        Mlestone  *                   Roied Up *
0
6t° t
'0



KAZAKHSTAN
Petrolum Technical Asstance Projed
Project Implementation Schedule
.        1    ~~~~1994    -                              .      1997     .
ID   Name                                                       Duration Scheduled St Scheduled Fini                          IJr  I mfi p  PIP J
23           Carny out Assgmet                                      52w       I1 08194      11lt795
24       (c)Consubnrs Services (Investment Activty to be Agreed)   331d      12/31194        48196 
25           Fbabe LOI(ShotisWt. TOR & Draft Contract)               lw      12t31194        l/M/s5
26           nanics Review and Conmmcnts                             iw        1/9/95       1113195
27           Invite Prposas                                          Od       1113/95       1113/95
28           Preparation and Submissin of Proposats                  6w       1/16/95       2_24/9
29           Evakuate Proposals and send RepoEl to Bank for Review  2.2w     M227195        3113195
30           Sanks Review and Conmnents                              lw       3/14/95       3/20/95
31           Negoiae, flize and sign conact                          1w       3/195         3J27195
32           Seek No Obecion fom the Bank                            lw       3128/95        43/395
33           Award C3n1ract                                          lw        4/4195       4110/95
34           Cal Y out Assignent                                    52w       4/1/t95        4/A896
35       (d) Consultast Servic: Petolm LegIslation                  78d       61t5194       9/30/94
38           Shot List kf Selcton of Indidual                        1w       6fS/94        621/94
37           Bank Comment and Approval                               1w       6/22/94       6128/94
38           S11111Signing of Conrad                                 2d       6/29/94       630194
39           Cany ou As      _ww                                  13.2w        711/94       W13W%9
40       (e) Cosuts Services: Peroleum Taxation                    274d       5(15194        6/1t95
41           FinlIe LOI( Shot TOR & Drft Contract)                   1w       515194        5/20i94
Baries Review and Comment                             1 .4w     5 W94         5131194
43          kIv  Proposals.                                          id        611194        6I/194
44           Prapetlon and Sum io of Poposals                        6w 6Ol94               7113194
Projsd                              CrItIcal                      Pogres                        Suma   is
DOge: 502094                                                                                                                                                             Oai UP*
Nor                        Robd Up ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i's 
"I



KAZAWHSTAN
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1994            199.            1996            I"?
ID   Name                                                      Duration Scheduled St Scheduled Fini ]       N WPM  l P   J    WEMp      A PPM  I
45           Evaluate Proposals and send Report to Bank for Review  2.2w     7/14t94       7/28194
46           Bank's Review and Conments                             1w       7/29/94        8/4/94
47           Negotiate, finalze and sign contract                   lw       85t94        8111194
48           Seek No Objectlon from the Bank                        lw       8112/94       8118/94
49           Award Contract                                         2w       8119/94        9/1/94            3
so           Carry out Assignment                                  39w        9/2/94       6/1195
51   (B) Suppoft to Restructuring  Corporatkzation of the Petroleum Ind.    674d  12/1/94   7/1/97                q.
52       (a) Consultanrs Services, RestructuIng (Org., Accounting & Fi  674d  12)1/94       7/1/97                q.
53           FinalIze LOI( Shortlst, TOR & Draft Contract)          3w       12/1194      12/21t94
54           Bank's Review and Comments                            1.4w     12/22/94      12/30t94
55           Invite Proposals                                       1d        1/2/95        112/95
56           Preparaton and Submission of Proposals                 4w        1/3/95       1/30/95
57           Evaluat Proposals and send Report to Bank for Review   lw       1/31/95        2/6/95
58           Bank's Review and Comments                             lw        217/95      2/13/95
59           Negotiate, fialze and sign contract                    lw       2/14/95       2/20/95
60           Seek No Objcion from the Bank                          lw       2/21195       2/27/95
61           Award Contract                                         lw       2/28195        3/6/95
62           Cary out Assignment                                 121.2w       3t7/95        7/1/97
63       (b) Consultants Services Corporatizatlon(Plann. & Fin. Maang.)   651.5d  1/1/95    711/97
64           Finalize LOI( ShortEst. TOR & Draft Contract)          3w        1/1/95       1/20/95
6S           Bank's Reviewand Coaments                             1.4w      1/2395        1/31/95
66           InvIte Proposals                                       1d       2V1/95         2/1/95
'reject:                       CrItical                      Progress                      Stumary
late: 5194                     X  Noni   Milestone *                                          Roled Up *                                                              roQ
0



KAZAKHSTAN
Petrolum Tecnical Assitn  Proect
Project I1lementation Schedule
. _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1994                                 t      995       .       ._  
ID   Nune                                                        Dufation Scheduled St ScheduledFkd E JM K              JIf     N  J|; I F3          I 1n|
67           Preparation and Submissn of Proposals                   4.5w       2/2185        31695 
68           Evaklae Prposal and send R tO to Bank for Review         3w        36195        3127/95                      3
69           SBanks Revie and Comments                                2w       3127/95       4110V95
70           Negotiate. fnaize nd sign contract                       1w       4/10195       4117/95
71           Seek No Objection from the Bank                          1w       4117/95       4124195
72           Award Contract                                           1w       4124/5 U1/95
73           Cany out Assignment                                  113.2w        Sl/95         711197
74   (C) Petrobu  Industy TraIning                                  618d       9/16/94       1i28/97 
75       Fnalize LOI( Shorlst, TOR & Draft Contract)                  1w       9116194         22194              I
76       Banks Review and Commnts                                     1w       9123194       92994 
77       Invie Pposals                                                 Id      9/30/94       930194
78       Preparation and Submisson of PropMosal"                      6w      _   _         t 11/11/94             U
79       Evaluate Proposast and sen¢ Repoft to Bank for Review        5w      11/14194      12/16194                 3
80       Banws Reiew aNd Comments                                     2w      12/19/94      12/30/94
81       Negoiate, finatize and sign contract                         2w        112/95       1113/95
82       Seek No Objecion fromi the Bank                              1w       1116/95       1120/95
83       Awad Contract                                               1.4w      1a3/9s        1/31/95                    I
84       Cary out Assignment                                        104w        21/l95       1128197
65   (D) Studies                                                    409d       5J16194       12M795
88       (a)Domestic Crud 0 Pipeline                               274d       WM16194        611/95
87           FnalIe LOI( Shortlist. TOR & Draft Contract)             1w       5/16/94       5120/94
88           Banws R%1OW and Comments                                1.4w      .123/94       5131194 _   _   I_.
Crical .                      ProgSress                      Summary J
)ate: 5294                                nMbestone *                                           Roetd Up*
0
o b



Annex 3
Pagie6of 9
1t            a
2ii
j     -~~~3   -  -; m'  J -  -:  -   -  -3  mt A  l
Ii   it ,.8     iI Sii isII                    I
]i ? 5 3T ?[T|   1. .-       -2 .- -           ii1  l5  
10Xt~ ~    10 3U vliSi 333 i  I*
| i   j1flIi 



KAZAKSTAN
Petroleum Technbal Assistance Projec
Project tmpementation Schedule
1     1994            1995             1_6             19T
ID   Name                                                        Duratn Scheduled St Scheduled Fini P JH |   IIJM  I  J|    lJtJM    |   M         MM  I
111           Invite Proposals                                         Id        61194         6/11/94
112           Preparation and Submrission of Proposals                 6w        6/2194       7/13/94
113           Evaluate Proposals and send Report to Bank for Review  2.2w       7114194       712MM94           3
114           Bank's Review and Comments                               1w       7129194        8/4/94
115           NegoUate, finalize and sign contract                     1w        815194       8/11/94
116           Seek No Objection from the Bank                          1w       8/12194       8"8/94
117           Award Contract                                           2w       8119194        911194
118           Carry out Assignment                                    66w        9/2/94       1217195
119  (E) Training                                                    668d       6110/94      12/31/96
120      (a) Foreign Investment Negotiations and Prornotion          407d      10110/94       4/30196
121           (l)Semlnar In Kazakhstan(several contracts)            407d      10/10/94       4/30/96
122          (Hi) FellowshipAbroad (several contracts)               294d      11/15/94      12131/95
123      (b) Petroleum Industry                                      490d       2/15195      12/31/96
124           Secondments Abroad (several contracts)                 490d       21t5)95      12/31/96
125      (c) Projec Implemenlation Unit                               81d       6/10194       9130194
126           Carry out the,assignment                                81d       6110194       9/30/94
127  (F) Goods: Office Equipment and other Supplies                  331d       6110/94       9/15/95
128      (a) Foreign Investment Negotiations and Promotion            85d       6/10194       10/94
129           Prepare Bidding Documents and Send to Bank for Review    2w       6/10/94       6/23194          9
130           Bank Review and Comments                                 1w       8/24/94       630/94
131           Issue Bidding Documents                                  1w        711194        7/7/94
132           Preparation and Submission of Bids                       3w        718/94       7128/94                                       . _
Project:                            Critcal                        Progress                       Summary  
Date: 5P94                          Noncriical                     Milestone *                    Rolled Up e
0
'0



KAZAKHSTAN
Peroletm Tecitnical Assn  Prect
Pr*c Ipiomentaton Schedule
1994            1996s          .                 1997
to   Name                                                        Duration Scheduled St Sdheculed FWN|
133           Open, Evauate Bids and Send Repon to Sank fo Review     3w        729194        811B194            3
134            an's Review and Cont                                    1w       8/11194       85/94
135           Award Contract                                           lw       82/9           911/94 
136           Delvewy of Equipment                                     SW     _ 294 __           _*
137      (b) for Co   _atzaton Component                                                                                        1dtd 551/95  9115/95
138           Prpare Bidding Documents nd Send to Bank for Review      2w        511195       5112/95                        g
139           Bank Review and Comments                                 1w       5/15S95       5119195 |
140           Issue Bidding Docunents                                  1w       5/22/95        /2695
141           Preparation and Submission of Bids                       3w       5/29/95       6116195
142           Open. Evaluate Bids and Send Report to Sank for Review   3w       6119195        7m7/95
143           Bank's Review and Comments                               1w       7/10/95       71419i5
144           Award Contract                                           1w       7/17/95       7/21/95
145           Dolivey of Equipment                                     ew       7/24195       9115195
146      (c) for Petroleurn Industry Trainig Component                90d        311i5         714/95
147           Prepare Bidding Documents and Send to Bank for Review    2w        311/95       3114/95                     g
148           Bank Review and Comments                                 1w       3/15/95       3121/95
149           Issue Bidding Documents                                  w        3W22M96       3128195
160           Preparation and Submission of Bids                       3w       3/29195       4/18i9S                       3
151           Open, Evaluate Bid and Send Repotto Bank for Review      3w       41195          5/995 
152           Bank'sReview and Conents                                 1w       510195        5116595
153           Award Contra                                            1w        5/17/95       5/23/95                         5
154           Delivery of Equipment                                   6w        5124195        7/4/95
Pr*ecd:                              Critical                      Progress                       summary                      e           x
Date:  5294|                         Noncital                      Milestone *                    Rolled Up * 
0



KAZAKHSTAN
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1994           1995            1996            199?
ID   Name                                                     Durabon Scheduled St Scheduled Fini :l    P4  I.JW3   I EJ"  . 3PM  I
155      (d) for Project Implemnentation Unit                      80d      6110/94      9129/94
156          Prepare Bidding Documents and Send to Bank for Review  2w      6110/94      6/23194
157          Bank Review and Comments                               1w      6/24194      6130194
158          Issue Bidding Documents                               1w        711194       717194
159          Preparation and Submission of Bids                    3w        7/8/94       7/28/94 |
160          Open. Evaluate Bids and Send Report to Bank for Review  3w     7129/94      8/18194 
161          Bank's Review and Comments                            1w       8/19/94      8/25/94
162          Award Contract                                         1w      8126/94       911/94
163          Delivery of Equipment                                 4w        9/2/94       9/29/941
Project:                           Critical                     Progress                      Sumnmary _
Date: 512/94                       Noncritical                  Milestone                     Rolled Up                                                                 O
. .... . . ... _ _ - . . ...... . _ . r3zs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aI



KAZAKISTAN
l?ETROIEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEIMATION PLAN
j. Comn______                                                     EdDmeted I
1. Forip hivetmet             a) Ddvopmeat of well-str td invesbnt
Negosou and                   packages for promo    to  A     investos;   Deoember 1993 - May 1996
Prootion                   b) Acceleratio of mobilization of forign equity
finance and tecnical sl into seeted but
key sector areas/entities;
c) Development of local investment mlysis
and negotatos capacty.
2. Support for Restructuring  a) Development of detailed rationalization plan  December 1994 - July 1997
and O      ion of the         for the sector;
Petoem   n                 b) More efficient industry suctuw;
c) Acceleraion of program of incorpoation and
selective pnvatiaton of sector entities;
d) lmpoved industry acounting and magemnt
_  control pctces.
3. Petolem Industry Taining   a) Establishment of industry-sppoted center for    Setmber 1994 - Januay 1997
the development of training curricula and
progra;
b) Development of industry-relevant taining
material;
c) Strenglhening of management and tchnical
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~capacity   in   industry._            _   _   _   _  _   _   _
4. Pipele Feabt Studies    a) Development of economically viable invesmt  Je 1994 - Jun 199S
plans for petroleum product pipelnes and
cross-country crudo oil pipeline;
b) Tender documents for egieering and
constueton of pipelines.
S. Natural Gas lnvestment        Formulation of gas sector developmnt plan   June 1994 - December 199S
StrAey Study                  incudig invetment options, pncing and
reguatory sategies.
6. Project Implemeion Unit  (a) Timely xwcution of the project               Jun 1994 - July 1997
(b) Enhanced project implementation and
.._____in_ monitoring capcity in MEFR                           __



PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF MUNAIGAS
| MG    l
Oil andJ            Reliniei ies         Pipelines
Gas Production PAs
- Mangyslaururinaygaz                        Kazakhstan&
Central Asia
-Ernbaneft             - Chimkant
- Yuzhne(tcprovod
-Tengiznoeftgaz        -Atyrallv
-Akiyubinsk
-Aktyubinskneftegaz                        _
-Yuzhkaznlltegaz
-Karazhanbasterinneft
Kazneftebitum



u1Hl  '1          ,.___.- -------''-'
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~o
1111 |1'  | 
i It            M         -~~~~~~H  .............. l
I       L i
1   M     X li    [:                              z
?,!!R~~~~~~~~i
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~zc
Z~~   11111



REPUBUC OF KAZAKHSTAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ACTIVITIES AND RESPONSIBILTIES
MINISTRY OF
ENERGY AND FUEL                                SECTOR HOLDING
RESOURCES                                       GROUPS
I ~obaOl-                                                  I
a rToa                      DEPUTY
2. a                       MINISTER                      4 Pt9   D_
R~aa                        MEPlF.RrepFbFw
bcmmaoog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fmg cmt
P_~~~~~~~~~~ Ibta                                   9t
,        ~~~~~2 Podtrs. Repoto
ENERGY pi _   I   d   .   "
*~~~~~~~~~~ SVtEFR*mja
I AaM inEvon                                                   _
4 RAwcoam
9"-
7 ptRepavww,t
Uonag~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9 Ps&ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



IBRD 2447C
5W                                       10,~~~~~~~~.                              
55
5S              ~KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                 ~                                                                                                         5
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJ ECT                                               _                                             \                  Cf-X   \                                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Uist-Komenogorsk ~
SH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W =<   zKrH2ASH  
P4D0ROZHNOYE                                                 ~~~~~~~CHINA
Th, bou. ndas,    rs.
UZBEKISTAN                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~deno-Mintion  and any
""N  -th '-f.   h.-^     R                         .f                   w    -  <         -                                     f                      ;O
KfRCZYZ REPUBLIC                          t~~~~~iply, o   the pa.t of
AZERBAIJAN    ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~74V~ZREULI                                                                                                           eWorld 8a- Group
BAKU e<F*enkoO  -f -        /."it 9+S              {'            \                      Szl-O                                                                                             s     o        to
Ak<9/~~~~~OS                                                                                                                                                              st""'''  \d_ ic-  '    5
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  an-2   y endorsemen*- " .t
Nebie Dog    TURKMENISTAN                                                \c f   Oil FleldsWls                                                       --   Planned Gas Unes
CrHARDHOU \iI~_-4
r _ _   ASHGABAT                                         *         TAJIKISTAN                     ---       nSg Cnude Oil Pipelines   -  -   Planned Crude Oil Lines
°Mory                                                                             Exisfng al WneryUSHANBE      -        l Panned Oil Product Lines
j     *      Gas/Condensate Felds                 p     An   eog Areriof
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN                              aSOtlErARAL                                                           f-                Gas Processing Plants        *    Naional Capitols
AFGHANISTAN                                                A    Oil And Gas Export/Impot Terminal    o   Seleded Towns And Cities
50¢  60  \    %       INDIA       -     dSting Gas Pipelines                 Intemraional Boundaries
MAY 1994



