Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19988
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Loan-37440)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 15, 2000
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2000)
Currency Unit = Kazalkstan Tenge (KZT)
142 KZT = US$ 1
US$ 1 = 142 KZT
FISCAL YEAR
2000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNPC         China National Petroleum Company
CPC          Caspian Pipeline Consortium
CPPC         Country Portfolio Performance Review
ESMAP        Joint World Bank/UNDP Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program
KCS          KazakhstanCapiShelf
OKIOC        Offshore Kazakhstan International Operations Company
PITC         Petroleum Industry Training Center
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PSA          Production Sharing Agreement
RTC          Regional Training Center
UMG          Uzemnunaigas
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director:    Hossein Razavi
Task Manager:    Helen Syms



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Imnplementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Perfonnancc                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional lnformation                                                           23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  25
Annex 3. Economnic Costs and Benefits                                                 27
Annex 4. Bank inputs                                                                  28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008501                                      Project Name: Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project
Team Leader: Helen Syms                                  TL Unit: ECSEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Petroleum Technical Assistance Project        L/C/TF Number: Loan-37440
Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                          Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: GI - Oil & Gas Exploration & Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 05/05/93                                Effective: 08/31/94           09/08/95
Appraisal: 08/15/93                                  MTR: 04/14/97             02/10/97
Approval:  06/02/94                               Closing: 07/31/97            03/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE / KAZAKHOIL
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes Linn                             Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Kiyoshi Kodera                           Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:      Peter D. Thomson                         Jonathan C. Brown
Team Leader at ICR:   Helen Syms                              Yusupha Crookes
ICR Primary Author:   Helen Syms
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=gHily
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project in the Memorandum of the President dated May 5, 1994, reads: "The
primary objective of the project is to assist the Government to strengthen the capacity of key petroleum
subsector agencies to: (a) attract foreign investment into the sub-sector; (b) promote the efficiency and
long-term financial viability of the petroleum industries; and (c) formulate economically sound investment



and organizational strategies for the integration of domestic primary petroleum production, processing,
transport and distribution."
The objectives were well aligned with the Govemment's strategy which included short term objectives to: (i)
stem declining production in existing producing fields; (ii) conclude negotiations for the development of
new or partly developed fields and for exploration rights; and (iii) create a legal, taxation and institutional
framework conducive to attracting foreign investmnent and the speedy conclusion of negotiations; and
medium term objectives to: (i) promnote economically efficient investments in domestic petroleum
processing, transmission and distribution; (ii) create efficient and adequate transport access to international
markets for its oil production; and (iii) develop domestic capacity to manage the sector and its enterprises
efficiently and on a commercial basis.
The project originated following initial activity on energy sector and petroleum law, which was successfully
carried out under the Technical Cooperation Protocol in 1991-2. This project was designed within the
framework of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and sector strategy in place at that time, which aimed
to assist the Government to: (i) develop an appropriate legal and institutional environment for energy sector
investrnents and operations; (ii) stem the decline in output and improve the efficiency of operations of
existing sector entities to underpin theiir export revenue and cash generation potential; and (iii) develop
efficient additional transport capacity for the evacuation of oil to domestic and export markets.
The project was considered ambitious at the outset, given the lack of previous experience with World Bank
projects and the limited implementation capacity of the Kazakhstan entities. The main risks identified were
firstly, the risk of implementation delays, due to inexperience in project management, and secondly, the risk
of lack of alignment within the Govemment for making investment decisions primarily on economic and
commercial grounds. The project was designed to mitigate these risks, and also to take account of lessons
leamed from earlier free-standing technical assistance projects which had been completed in other
countries. Implementation delays were experienced, and the actual closing date was two years and eight
months later than initially planned. Sorne differences of view on implementation priorities did emerge in
Kazakhstan during the project, which resulted in some areas being less than fully implemented as
circumstances changed and evolved.
Overall it is considered that, allowing for an appropriate learning curve by both the Bank and the
Government in what was a new borrowing country, the risk identification and the resulting actions taken
during project design did prove successful and the project has delivered against the majority of the
objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The original description of the components of the project in the Memorandum of the President dated May 5,
1994, reads: "The proposed project consists of the following: (A) Advisorv Services for Foreign Investment
Negotiations and Promotion (base cost: US$5.9 million). This component would provide support to the
Government in creating an effective fi-amework for promoting foreign investments in the petroleum
subsector through assistance in finalizing a Petroleum Law and in the formulation of a taxation code for
petroleum  operations; in appraising potential investment projects and structuring and negotiating
transactions with prospective investors; and in training local staff to assume responsibility for furnishing
-2-



much of this work in the future; (B) Support for Petroleum Industry Restructuring and Corporatization
(base cost: US$5.3 million). This component would assist the Government to implement effectively a
program of corporatization and restructuring of the petroleum industry, and prepare the basis for increased
private sector participation in the industry; (C) Petroleum Industry Training and Training Mana2ement
(base cost: US$3.3 million). This component would assist the Government to identify and address priority
management training needs in the sector, and prepare and administer a program of training in
market-oriented petroleum industry operational and commercial practices; (D) Pipeline Feasibility Studies
(base cost: US$0.7 million). The planned studies under this component would review the economic
feasibility of the Government's plans to construct (a) new product pipelines to replace the transport of
petroleum products by rail; and (b) a crude oil pipeline to connect the oilfields in the west with the two
refineries in the eastern part of the country; assistance would be provided for the preparation of tender
documents for identified viable pipelines; (E) Natural Gas Investment Strategy (base cost: US$1.1
million). This component would provide assistance for the assessment of the regional and domestic market
potential for natural gas and the supply and investment options for Kazakhstan in participating in meeting
such demand; (F) Proiect Implementation Support (base cost: US$0.7 million). This component would
provide advisory and consultant services to the Government to manage the day-to-day implementation of
the project."
The components are well related to the project objectives and were designed to address the main focus of
both Bank and Government priorities for the oil and gas sector. Attention was paid during the project
design stage to the administrative and financial management capacity of the implementing agency, and
arrangements were put in place to increase capacity and mitigate risks in these areas. Five key lessons
learned from previous Bank free-standing technical assistance projects were incorporated into the project
design, namely: (i) project components must be consistent with the country's institutional development
strategy; (ii) the Government and the beneficiary agencies must demonstrate commitment to the goals of the
project; (iii) there should be an institutional capacity to manage and absorb the assistance provided; (iv)
terms of reference should be detailed and explicit about expected outputs; and (v) intensive Bank
supervision should be provided during the project.
The project components were expanded in the Loan Agreement with the addition of sub-components under
Parts A, B, C, and these items are described with the project outputs in section 4.2 of this report.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.S Quality at Entry:
There was no formal Quality at Entry review of this project at its initiation. However, based on the
consistency of the project objectives with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and sector strategy and
with the Government's priorities, and based on the incorporation into the project design of risk mitigation
arrangements, it is concluded that the quality at entry was satisfactory for this project. This is also
demonstrated by the successful delivery of results within the project framework.
-3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project objectives was overall Satisfactory. The objectives were substantially achieved,
and exceeded in many areas, with only a few areas of shortcoming which are explained in this report.
(a) Attract foreign investments into the subsector: The project contributed to further development of the
petroleum legislation of Kazakhstan on the basis of the Petroleum Law which was adopted in 1995 and
became the first modem enabling framework petroleum law passed by a Former Soviet Union country.
The project assisted in the development and adoption of several other laws, resolutions, regulations and
instructions, which supported the investment environment in the oil and gas sector of the Republic of
Kazakhstan. Substantial foreign investment has been attracted into the oil and gas sector with the
assistance of the project. The two largest examples of investment success are the Production Sharing
Agreements (PSAs) for: (i) offshore exploration currently underway with the major international
KazakhstanCapiShelf (KCS) consortium, and; (ii) Karachaganak oil and gas field development project with
a group of foreign companies. Both of them are major petroleum projects on a world scale, with potential
investments of well over US$20 billion for exploration success, and the potential to generate many billions
of dollars in revenue to Kazakhstan over the producing life of the fields. The project had a material impact
on moving these items forward, and attracting many other expressions of interest from foreign oil
companies where the Government had previously been unsuccessful in attracting strategic investors (e.g.
for the Uzen oilfield rehabilitation project). In addition, a range of smaller scale feasibility studies were
conducted in preparation for investment proposals, and legal and financial advisory services were provided
to support negotiations with foreign entities over proposed investment projects.
(b) Promote the efficiency and long-term financial viability of the petroleum industries: Since the project
was designed, there were two restructuring periods in the petroleum sector in Kazakhstan, which took place
outside the scope of the project. In 1995, the state entity Munaigas was separated into independent state
owned oil companies. Later, in 1997, the Ministry for Oil and Gas ceased to exist - its policy functions
were transferred to the Ministry for Energy and Natural Resources, and the state owned interests in the oil
and gas entities were transferred to the new National Oil and Gas Company Kazakhoil (NOGC Kazakhoil)
which was created in March 1997. Work was delivered on taxation in the petroleum sector, although it
was not implemented as legislation and therefore much of the potential benefit was not realized. A
considerable impact was made through training programs and the establishment of the Petroleum Industry
Training Center which has long-term benefits for the efficiency of the industry.
(c) Formulate economically sound investment and organizational strategies for the integration of domestic
primary petroleum production. processing. transport and distribution: This objective was implemented
through technical, financial, environmental and legal feasibility studies which provided a basis for
economically sound investment decisions to be made. Integration of major new offshore oil operations with
existing onshore infrastructure and operations was examined through feasibility study of an offshore
supplies base proposal. Development of an investment and organizational strategy for the gas sector was
not carried out under the project but as an ESMAP study.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Delivery of the project components was overall Satisfactory with some significant areas of Highly
Satisfactory results. Detailed comments for the components and sub-components follow.
- 4 -



Part A: Advisory Services for Foreign Investment Negotiations and Promotion:
Provision of technical assistance and training services: (Al) to support the Borrower's efforts to create an
effective framework for promoting foreign investment in the petroleum sector; (A2) to formulate specific
taxation policies for the petroleum industry and draft the necessary legal and regulatory instruments; and
(A3) to assist in carrying out technical, economic, legal and environmental feasibility studies of specific
investments in the petroleum sector and in the structuring and negotiation of specific investment
transactions with prospective investors.
Under part Al, the project assisted in the development of petroleum legislation which was based on the
Petroleum Law passed in 1995. Adoption of this law placed Kazakhstan ahead of other Former Soviet
Union countries in establishing a modem generic and enabling business climate, and in attracting large
amounts of foreign investment into the oil and gas sector. This was a very significant first step, of which
benefits were unfortunately reduced in 1999 when revisions and amendments to the Petroleum Law were
adopted (as a result of initiatives outside of the project or Bank involvement), which have proved to be
unpopular with the oil industry and a disincentive to new investment in the sector. Regarding specific
contracts with foreign investors, legal and financial advisory services were provided to the Government on
negotiations for two very large production sharing agreements with foreign investors, on the
KazakhstanCaspiShelf and the Karachaganak projects. These two contracts alone have created the basis
for up to US$30 billion of investment in the petroleum sector, and around US$1 billion has already been
invested in exploration on the Caspian Sea shelf and development on Karachaganak. Importantly, this
work also served a broader role in developing the experience and skills of the Kazakhstan side in working
with foreign investors and understanding their needs in terms of business framework. The experience
gained from work on the Petroleum Law and these large contracts was used and matured in later
negotiations. (Contracts: Shearman & Sterling, legal advisor on KazakhstanCaspiShelf, US$1,034,343;
Shearman & Sterling, legal advisor on Karachaganak, US$219,729; JP Morgan, financial advisor,
US$3,112,759; Price Waterhouse, financial advice on KazakhstanCaspiShelf negotiations, US$2,118,945)
Under part A2, draft legislation on taxation of subsurface users in the petroleum industry was prepared,
including the necessary regulations, instructions, and accounting provisions for various model contracts.
This was a very good and complete piece of work and should have been adopted as legislation quickly,
however this was not done, apparently as a result of lack of familiarity and understanding of the legislation,
and political differences within the Govemment. Parts of the recommendations have been included in
subsequent proposed revisions to the tax code, but the overall impact on the sector has been very weak
compared to the potential for positive impact which existed. (Contracts: Ernst & Young, preparation of
petroleum tax code, US$285,883)
Under part A3, the specific negotiation support described under part Al also contributed to A3, and a
number of additional technical, economic, legal and environmental feasibility studies have been carried out
with the objective of ensuring that sound and balanced investment decisions are made. A technical review
of a feasibility study for expansion of processing capacity at the Zhanazhol gas processing plant was
completed. Further technical work has been focused on the need for new infrastructure and operations base
to support major offshore oil operations which will follow if the exploration efforts now underway on the
offshore Kashagan structure are successful. A considerable amount of new development will be necessary
in an area of extreme environmental sensitivity (caviar production, ecologically unique area, very shallow
water) and the infrastructure and environmental requirements have been studied in detail under the project,
with designs and recommendations provided. Other important wok was the feasibility study on three fields
prior to development plans, and the legal advisory work on the Zhambai project, both of which are expected
to lead to foreign investment in the future. (Contracts: Arthur D Little, technical feasibility review on
- 5 -



Zhanazhol, US$62,599; Gustavson Associates, technical/economic feasibility study on three fields, US$
465,185; Coudert Brothers, legal advice on negotiations for Zhambai project, US$98,425; Alliance
Intemational Management, feasibility and environmental study on infrastructure to support offshore
operations, US$344,046; Halliburton International Inc. (Brown & Root), technical feasibility of offshore
base at Bautino, US$315,034)
Implementation of Part A of the project is considered Highly Satisfactory. A total of US$6.5 million has
been disbursed under this component. Very significant progress was made on petroleum legislation which
resulted in major foreign investment. Substantial legal and financial support for negotiation of the two
major international contracts discussed under part Al of the project was included at the request of the
Kazakhstan Government. Achievements under part A2 were weaker than originally envisaged, but those
under part A3 have been very valuable in promoting and planning for significant foreign investments.
(B) Petroleum Industry Restructurng and Corporatization:
Provision of technical assistance, training services and office equipment, to assist the Borrower in carrying
out a program for the corporatization and restructuring of the petroleum industry and establishing the basis
for an increased private sector participation in the industry, including: (BI) establishing by the Project
Companies of financial management control procedures to ensure effective performance of the enterprise
under their control; (B2) provision of office equipment to support the implementation by the Project
Companies of improved financial and management control procedures; (B3) definition and implementation
of restructuring and rationalization options for selected enterprises in the sector; and (B4) determination of
the position of the restructured enterprises and initial determination of the financial position and value of
enterprises selected for privatization.
When the oil and gas industry was restructured in 1995, the originally defined Project Companies ceased to
exist and by an amcndment to the Loan Agreement were replaced by sixteen newly independent state owned
oil and gas entities. As a result, the work conducted under Parts B I and B2 of the project could not be
carried out as initially envisaged. Several activities have been implemented in Uzenmunaigas and in
Kazakhoil under part B 1, but there was no activity under Part B2 of the project.
This project provided support for the preparation of the Uzen Oilfield Rehabilitation Loan, which was
undertaken under parts B 1, B3 and B4 of the project with the agreement of the Bank that Uzen should be a
priority focus area. Uzenmunaigas as the proposed implementing agency for the Uzen loan was separated
from its parent company Munaigas in 1995, and financial advice was provided to develop a working capital
financing plan to support the newly independent company. Further, with the objective of privatizing
Uzenmunaigas, financial and legal support was provided for the development of a privatization plan. It
was intended to attract a strategic foreign investor to the company which would build on the Bank's pilot
rehabilitation project and finance the rehabilitation of the whole oilfield. Legal and financial advice was
provided and a tender process was conducted to select a strategic foreign investor to the oilfield. The work
of the financial consultant was criticized because, although their technical work had been good, their
financial and banking work was of poor quality and the bids received were not developed on a comparable
basis, causing problems in the evaluation process. Eventually the Kazakhstan side completed the
evaluation, and the Chinese National Petroleum Company (CNPC) was selected in 1997. Negotiations
commenced but as of today have progressed extremely slowly, and it is unclear when or whether an
agreement will be reached. Thus the privatization and investment objectives for Uzenmunaigas have not
yet been achieved. (Contracts: Ernst & Young, financial advice on development of a restructuring and
working capital financing plan for UMG, US$249,787; Pepper, Hamilton & Sheetz, legal advice on
privatization options for UMG, US$210,004; Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, financial advice on privatization
-6 -



options for UMG, US$87,618; Cameron McKenna, legal advice on attracting a strategic investor to UMG,
US$933,828; JP Morgan, financial advice on attracting a strategic investor to UMG, US$3,112,759)
Other work undertaken under Part B includes feasibility and design work for computerized information
systems designed to improve the efficiency and management control processes within Kazakhoil.
Preparation of the design and detailed specifications for an integrated geoinformation system was
completed and will form the basis for investment in the necessary technology and skills by Kazakhoil (such
integrated geoinformation systems are core business systems for all major international oil companies).
Design of an electronic document management system was also completed to improve the efficiency of
information access and flow within the company and with its subsidiaries. These two initiatives were
undertaken in support of Kazakhoil's goals to adopt the management and business practices used by
western companies and upgrade its capabilities as a major oil and gas holding company. (Contracts: LG
EDS Systems, development of Kazakhoil electronic document management system, US$359,225;
VNlIGeosystem, geoinformation system for Kazakhoil, US$150,416)
Implementation of Part B of the project is considered Satisfactory. Considerable support was provided to
Uzenmunaigas and Kazakhoil to assist in their restructuring and modernization. A total of US$3.5 million
has been disbursed under this component. The activities undertaken were somewhat different from those
originally planned due to the industry reorganization in 1995 and there was no implementation under Part
B2, as explained above.
(C) Petroleum Industry Training:
Provision of technical assistance, training services and equipment and materials to assist the Borrower in:
(Cl) identifying and addressing, through development of appropriate training plans and programs, priority
training needs in the petroleum sector; (C2) preparing and carrying out training programs in
market-oriented petroleum industry operations and management, petroleum economics and marketing
practices; and (C3) implementing a program of training seminars in Kazakhstan and of secondment abroad
of selected managers in the petroleum industry.
The project provided the technical assistance, equipment, materials, and training services which were
needed to establish the Petroleum Industry Training Center (PITC) in Almaty in 1996. Training needs
were analyzed and comprehensive petroleum industry training programs developed, including a significant
program of training for trainers in order to ensure the sustainability of the center and the development of
local skills and experience. The PITC has the capability to develop and produce its own training materials
and facilities include color publishing, video, audio, editing and reproduction, which are used in the center
and services are also provided to other entities for a fee. The facilities include language laboratory, two
large seminar rooms, one computer training room, and other rooms for smaller groups. In 1999 the PITC
established a Regional Training Center (RTC) in Atyrau, and the project has financed equipment and
materials for that center also. The PITC has an Advisory Board comprised of 11 members representing
petroleum sector enterprises and foreign companies, and charges commercial fees for training courses and
other services which have enabled it to become self financing. In addition, the PITC has received support
from EU TACIS and from foreign oil companies and Kazakhoil, which use its facilities and have
contributed to their development.
Training courses have covered a broad spectrum of oil industry needs including onshore and offshore
technical and operational training, business and financial training, management seminars and workshops,
and language training. Courses are held in the training center, in client premises, and in the field, and
overseas exchange management visits have also been undertaken.
-7 -



(Contracts: IHRDC, training program development, US$1,695,420; IHRDC, conduct of petroleum
industry training, US$286,235;  IHRDC, program  of training on offshore petroleum  operations,
US$246,356; ENSPM Formation Industrie, offshore petroleum operations training, US$240,670; ALSI
JV, equipment for Petroleum Industry Training Centre US$234,835;  Universal Business Systems,
equipment for Atyrau regional training center, US$98,716).
Implementation of Part C of the project is considered Highly Satisfactory. A total of US$2.8 million has
been disbursed under this component. A further US$0.3 million was contributed by the borrower in
co-financing for repair and rehabilitation of premises and facilities for the Petroleum Industry Training
Centre, which has proved highly successful and is well positioned for the long term. The achievements of
this part of the project will continue to benefit the Kazakhstan petroleum industry for many years.
(D) Pipeline Feasibility Studies:
Provision of technical assistance services to review the technical, economic, legal and environmental
feasibility of specific investment projects included in the Borrower's plans to construct oil product pipelines
as well as a crude oil pipeline to connect the oil fields in Westem Kazakhstan to the refineries in Eastem
Kazakhstan.
The project originally envisaged several feasibility studies on crude and product pipelines, however after
the project commenced the previously govemment owned Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) was
substantially restructured.  Large private and foreign companies became participants in 1996 and
commenced work on a major oil export pipeline from Kazakhstan to the Black Sea (initial capacity 28
million tons per year, rising to 67 million tons per year) which is now under construction with estimated
full cost of around US$4 billion. In addition, the Government obtained grant financing from USAID
among others for the conduct of three studies covering domestic transportation of crude oil, petroleum
products, and natural gas, which were earlier envisaged to be performed under the project. It was agreed
with the Bank that the scope of these activities would be as in the Loan Agreement and that they would be
integrated with other components of the project. The component was agreed to be maintained in the project
description, and the funds were allocated to provide additional support for Parts A and B of the project.
Therefore, the activities implemented under this component of the project were limited to a financial and
economic evaluation of a proposed West Kazakhstan - Kumkol pipeline project. (Contracts: Price
Waterhouse, financial and economic evaluation of Kumkol pipeline, US$200,022).
Although implementation of Part D of the project was substantially reduced in scope, this was properly
agreed with the Bank and measures were taken to avoid conflict or overlap with the project.
Implementation of Part D is considered Satisfactory. A total of US$0.20 million has been disbursed under
this component.
(E) Natural Gas Investment Strategy:
Provision of technical assistance services to assist the Borrower in: (El) assessing the regional and
domestic market potential for natural gas; and (E2) designing plans and strategies regarding the supply and
investment options for Kazakhstan to participate in meeting such demands.
After the restructuring of the oil and gas industry it was decided not to implement this component of the
project in this way, and it was instead implemented as a Bank ESMAP project which was successfully
delivered in December 1997. Therefore, implementation of Part E of the project is not rated, and no Loan
-8 -



funds were disbursed under this component.
(F) Project Implementation Support:
Establishment and operation of a project implementation unit (the PIU) within Ministry of Oil and Gas
(later in the National Oil and Gas Company Kazakhoil) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank, including the overall coordination and administration of the activities to be carried out under the
project and the procurement of goods and services required therefore.
The PIU was established in 1995 under the Ministry of Oil and Gas, and in 1997 moved to Kazakhoil.
Funds from the project have financed PIU staff salaries, equipment and office supplies, and annual audits
of the project accounts. One early initiative was that the PIU Director visited Washington to participate in
training on the Bank's procurement process for consultant services. On return to Kazakhstan, the PIU
Director had a good understanding of both the process and the principles of Bank procurement, resulting in
significantly shorter learning curve and a much more rapid start to the work that could otherwise have been
possible.
The PIU has throughout the project been a most efficient, disciplined and professionally managed group. It
has been recognized as a primary example of good practice among World Bank projects in Kazakhstan, by
both the Bank and the Kazakhstan authorities. It is notable that the same PIU Director has been in place
throughout the project from the design stage, and the continuity and assimilation of experience of the
Director have been of great benefit to the project's implementation and achievements.
Implementation of Part F of the project is considered Highly Satisfactory, and has been the major
contributing factor to the project's successful delivery under the other components. A total of US$0.3
million has been disbursed under this component. A further US$70,000 has been contributed by the
borrower as co-financing for rental of premises for the PIU, utilities, office supplies etc.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a substantial impact on development of the business environment in the petroleum
sector, and on increasing the skills and experience of the institutions and individuals operating in the sector.
Particular focus has been on technical assistance to Kazakhoil as the national oil and gas company, and on
its largest oil producing subsidiary Uzenmunaigas, which is also subject of the Uzen Oilfield Rehabilitation
Loan. The highly successful training initiatives implemented under the project have benefited a broader
range of Kazakhstan petroleum sector entities, and through their continuation these benefits will continue to
be delivered and expanded.
-9-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implernentation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Changes in the oil price affected the investment climate and the willingness of foreign investors to enter new
projects and commit expenditures, in Kazakhstan as everywhere. The formation of the foreign owned
Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) wvhich commenced work on a major new export pipeline from
Kazakhstan via Russia to the Black Sea was one such development which reduced activity under Part D of
the project. Also, the pace of negotiations with foreign oil companies on the major contracts for offshore
exploration and development of the Karachaganak field resulted in requests to the Bank to fund part of the
costs of legal and financial advisors to the Kazakhstan Government from the project. The Bank agreed to
this in the circumstances after careful review, and although these contracts had been initiated outside the
project, the substance of the work was considered eligible under Part A of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A number of factors subject to Government control resulted in shift of emphasis of the project activities,
and to delays in the project implementation, and include:
a) Industry Restructuring: Two restructuring events in the oil and gas industry resulted in delays to the
project. The first, in 1995, contributed largely to the delay of nine months between project signature in
December 1994, and effectiveness in September 1995. An amendment to the Loan Agreement was made in
July 1995 to accommodate the effects of this restructuring, in which the original state owned oil company
Munaigas was replaced with sixteen newly independent state owned oil companies, many of which were
intended for privatization.  In some areas priorities changed after the restructuring, as the newly
independent oil companies had different perspectives to the holding company Munaigas and the Ministry
for Oil and Gas. The second restructuriinIg, completed in March 1997, included abolition of the Ministry of
Oil and Gas and transfer of its roles partly to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, and partly to
the newly created National Oil and Gas Company Kazakhoil.  This resulted in changes in the
implementation arrangements for the project, although the PIU staff remained constant and the PIU was
transferred to Kazakhoil. During the transition periods there were delays in decision making due to
disruption of coordination and communications. Although a number of privatizations including some of
substantial size have been made in the petroleum sector since 1995, these were performed as separate
initiatives of the Government and were implemented outside of the project.
b) Policy Components: In 1995 the Government was cautious about implementing the policy related
components of the project including revisions to the petroleum law, revision of petroleum taxation
legislation, and petroleum industry restructuring and privatization support. The main reason for this was
cited as the limited prospects of recovering the costs of these activities from third parties, and the
Government was more inclined to seek grant or other funding sources for these areas of work. As a result,
some of the activities to be addressed in a coherent way under the project were addressed in other ways,
sometimes without a single overriding framework or strategy.
c) Personnel Changes and Coordination: Changes of management and officials both in the Govenmnent
and in Kazakhoil have caused delays in decision making and implementation, as new individuals have
needed time to become familiar with the subject matter of the project, which represents just one part of their
new position. Coordination between ministries involved in the project (Ministry of Oil and Gas, Ministry
of Energy and Fuel Resources, Ministry of Economy) were not always smooth and contributed to some
delays in implementation.
d) Changes in Legislation and Taxation: The environment of legislative, fiscal, organizational, and
administrative conditions in Kazakhstan is still evolving, and changes have sometimes resulted in
conflicting instructions and confusion over the procedures and rules to be followed. As an example,
- 10 -



changes in customs regulations and taxation have caused difficulties with the import of goods and
equipment by consultants.
e) Move to Astana: During 1998-1999 the majority of the Government and Kazakhoil organizations and
staff moved from Almaty to the new capital city of Astana in Kazakhstan. This was a major organizational
and logistical challenge and resulted in a slow-down of project activity most noticable in the first half of
1999, when communications were disrupted, office locations were temporary, and coordination and
decision making became complex.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors subject to implementing agency control which affected project implementation include:
a) Reorganizations: Within Kazakhoil there have been a number of reorganizations and changes in the
management which impacted the project when individuals who were sponsors or beneficiaries of project
activities were changed. The membership of the Advisory Board for the Petroleum Industry Training
Center experienced a degree of turnover which sometimes resulted in a lack of coordination and slow
decision making on the running of the training center.
b) Activity Sponsorship: The active support and attention of department heads and management as
sponsors and beneficiaries of project activities was sometimes difficult to obtain, resulting in slow progress
and putting at risk the delivery of timely and useable results. In such cases much energy of the PIU was
expended in generating the necessary active sponsorship.
c) Coordination and Decision Makin: The processes for coordination and decision making were at times
slow and bureaucratic, resulting in periods of inactivity under a project activity pending management
decision on the next steps. Examples include review of documents, approval of recommendations,
decisions on activities of the training center, and decisions on new activities to be conducted under the
project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As the project progressed, several reallocations of funds were made to ensure that sufficient funds were
available under the categories needed. These reflected the changes in the amounts of work done under some
of the project components as noted in this report. These were routine matters, and no other financial issues
or problems arose. The borrower contributed an estimated $0.38 million during the project as cofinancing
under Parts C and F for training and Project lmplementation Unit
There was a delay in disbursements compared to the original schedule, as shown below:
US$ million         FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY00              Total
Appraisal           4.71   6.31   3.78   0.90                       15.7
Actual              0.00   2.07   3.58   4.76   1.27   1.72         13.4
The delay in effectiveness resulted in no disbursements taking place during the first year of implementation,
and progress has subsequently been slower than anticipated at the time of project design for the reasons
described above. The loan closing date was extended three times with a total extension period of two years
and eight months. Given that the project was recognized ambitious at the outset, since Kazakhstan was a
new Bank borrower and experience for managing such a project was very limited, the original
implementation targets and schedule do seem very aggressive, and may not have been realistic in the
circumstances.
- 11 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating.
Many of the project's achievements are expected to be sustainable over the long term, and some of the
activities, described below, have already transitioned to regular operations. The Government has been
committed to attracting foreign companies into the petroleum sector, and Kazakhstan has been fairly
successful compared to other Former Soviet Union countries in securing foreign investment. Kazakhoil, as
national oil company with a number of large producing assets of its own, has shown commitment to
transforming itself into an efficient holding company, and transforming its subsidiaries into modem oil and
gas production companies operating on western principles in the areas of management, finance, and
operations. At the same time, the role of Kazakhoil should be appropriately regulated and governed to
ensure that its size and dominance in the domestic sector are managed appropriately. A number of the
project activities which were designed to support the transition of Kazakhoil are highly likely to be
continued in Kazakhoil as they are well aligned with the company's vision and goals. Activities conducted
under the project have been realistic in their ambitions and thus are within the capacity of the beneficiary
entities to implement.
The sustainability rating for the project is Highly Likely across most of the areas. There are only a few
exceptions to this which relate mainly to studies undertaken early in the project life which later, due to
changes in the industry and realization of what could be achieved, became less important priorities or were
not actively supported under the new structures and management.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
It is clear that some of the activities supported under the project have already transitioned into ongoing
operations and are now independent of the project. Included among these are the major international oil
and gas projects including: i) OKIOC offshore exploration on the Caspian Sea shelf, and ii) Karachaganak
onshore production. Also, the Petroleum Industry Training Center (PITC) established in Almaty has
received substantial assistance from other sources including EU TACIS and the major foreign oil
companies operating in Kazakhstan. The center is now self-financing based on the fees charged for its
services, and the training which has been received by oilfield workers is being put to use every day. The
Regional Training Center established in the major Caspian port town of Atyrau has received equipment
purchased under the Loan and is expected to be successful in its operations following the example of the
Almaty centre.
Tbe PITC has carried out increasing numbers of training courses each year since its foundation, as shown
below. In 1999, training covered a broad range of areas including drilling technology, management of
industrial enterprises, labor law of Kazakhstan, translation terminology of petroleum industry, petroleum
law and oil contracts, well design, legislation and taxation, project financing, risk management,
management of oil operations, environmental protection, marketing management and environmental law,
petroleum industry accounting, human resource planning, and language training. A number of programs
have been carried out overseas in several US cities as well as a number of European countries, as
appropriate for the subject matter and ski]lls being taught.
1996         1997           1998          1999
Number of courses            22            23            27            34
Number of participants       224           374           385           412
- 12-



The infrastructure work has also matured into a self-standing activity sopnsored by Kazakhoil, who has
hired a consultant firm to advise. A coordinating committee has been established with representation from
Kazakhoil, Western Kazakhstan region, foreign companies, and possible financiers. An executive working
group is now being formed to take this work forward. Also, the feasibility study on three fields
Alibekmola, Kozhasay, and Urichtau has progressed, and investments are forseen in the coming years to
develop these reserves.
For those activities which have not already transitioned into ongoing regular operations, the strong
ownership within the beneficiary entities gives confidence that the work will be sustainable. Kazakhoil has
plans to implement the geoinfortnation system and electronic document management system as part of its
modernization program. Feasibility studies on technical and economic aspects of proposed investment
projects will be used in attraction of investment and/or possible privatization of these opportunities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's initial work in preparing the project was carried out in a rather unstructured way by developing
many separate terms of reference for consultant assignments with no overall strategy, concept, or
framework for the project The Bank team appears to have had insufficient experience in this type of
lending to have been able to effectively prepare the work in a new borrowing country with very limited
understanding of the Bank or of market economy principles. Although this early work was rather
haphazard, a more experienced task manager was then appointed who was able to bring the project together
in a coherent manner, conduct an appraisal mission, and develop a sound project design. From that point
on, the lending process was carried out effectively and efficiently and the fact that no changes to the project
description were later needed demonstrates that project design was sound. Aspects such as consistency of
the project with Government and Bank objectives, design of project components, financing estimates,
recognition of risks, and accommodation of earlier lessons learned were all taken into account in the project
design.
There were delays in the lending process due to reorganization of the oil and gas industry in 1995.
Subsidiaries of Munaigas (a large state owned company) were separated out as independent legal entities
and many were prepared for privatization. An amendment to the Loan Agreement was made July 1995,
and effectiveness was achieved in September 1995, nine months after the signature in December 1994. The
Bank took initiatives to accommodate these changes through an amendment to the Loan Agreement, and
continued communication with the Kazakhstan side ensured that the necessary milestones were achieved,
albeit with some delays.
7.2 Supervision:
Three Task Managers have worked on the project: the first was involved from the appraisal and design
stage through commencement and up until September 1996; the second worked under the supervision phase
from October 1996 to October 1998; and the third worked from November 1998 to the project closure and
completion in May 2000.
The records from supervision missions and annual reports from the PIU show that Bank performance on
supervision has been overall satisfactory. Supervision missions were generally well documented and
Project Status Reports were completed and provide realistic assessments of the project's performance.
-13 -



Appropriate mix of skills was present during supervision missions, and the frequency of missions was
appropriate for the level of involvement and support required. A close working relationship, including
mentoring and coaching of the PIU staff during the earliest phase of the project, led to the PIU learning
rapidly and quickly becoming competent in the new areas of work.
Criticism was made by the PIU at times that Bank responsiveness was too slow, and these criticisms were
generally heeded and changes were made. The PIU has noted on several occasions, including the annual
Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) meetings, that the Bank's performance could be improved
by building the capacity of the Resident Mission staff to advise and handle some issues locally, rather than
everything being referred back to Washington which takes more time. The Resident Mission does now
have individuals with responsibility for handling questions on areas such as procurement, disbursements,
and financial questions locally, and the PIU believes that this capacity could be beneficially expanded to
increase responsiveness for the client. The PIU has also called for the Bank to provide Russian translations
of current procurement documents in order to avoid duplicated translation effort by all Russian speaking
PlUs, and the possibility of errors being introduced into the text.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance has been Satisfactory. The project has delivered many of the achievements
which were originally envisaged and, although progress was somewhat disrupted at times for various
reasons, has achieved consistent satisfactory ratings for both development objectives and implementation
progress. The project was not at any time considered to be at risk.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was an active participant during the design and appraisal of the project, ensuring that its
objectives and priorities were clearly articulated and included under the project. As mentioned, there was a
delay of nine months between signature of the Loan Agreement and effectiveness of the Loan. Although
primarily caused by the industry restructuring which took place in 1995, the Bank was also concerned in
early 1995 that the Government was not moving fast enough to establish a PIU and appoint a Director who
would have single point responsibility for the project. As a result, the project was not being moved forward
sufficiently in Kazakhstan, and work such as obtaining the legal opinions took longer than it should have.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Once the project commenced, Government performance was overall satisfactory, although certain areas for
improvement are noted. Among these is primarily the need for closer communication and coordination
between different areas of the Government, with the regions, and with Kazakhoil. Poor coordination
resulted in delays to various routine aspects of project implementation, such as approval of withdrawal
applications, submission of new signature authorities when personnel were changed, and reallocation of
Loan funds between categories.
The significant events of oil industry restructuring in 1997 and the move of Government and major state
owned entities from Almaty to Astana in 1998-1999, both had their impacts on project imnplementation,
leading to a slow-down in the pace of work whilst new business systems, structures, and infrastructures
were established.
Improvements in coordination throughout the project could have resulted faster pace of implementation and
- 14 -



possibly to the full US$15.7 million of Loan funds being effectively utilized to benefit the oil and gas
industry, avoiding the cancellation of US$2.3 million of unused funds which will now take place.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Kazakhoil as implementing agency has overall maintained good ownership of the project, although as
described in section 5.3 some delays in project implementation were the result of factors within the control
of Kazakhoil. The PIU was established initially within Ministry of Oil and Gas and later within Kazakhoil,
and has proved to be very successful and has created a strong ownership and momentum for the project.
The PIU has been well maintained with a small but appropriately experienced staff (Director, Accountant,
and Translator) with clear roles and responsibilities, a professional attitude, and good discipline. Bank
procedures have been follQwed in accordance with the Loan Agreement and Bank guidelines, and all
deliverables such as audited financial reports and annual project implementation reports were delivered on
time. It is clear that the energy and persistence of the PIU was critical to maintaining progress and keeping
management attention on the project during the difficult period. Without this consistent effort the project
could have lost direction and pace, which would then have been difficult to restore. Consideration is being
given as to how the experience which has been built up in the PIU over the past five years can be harnessed
to ensure sustainability of the activities started under this project, and to benefit other Bank projects
operating in Kazakhstan.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance has been Satisfactory. The project has delivered many of the achievements
which were originally envisaged and, although progress was somewhat disrupted at times for various
reasons, has achieved consistent satisfactory ratings for both development objectives and implementation
progress. The project was not at any time considered to be at risk.
8. Lessons Learned
This project is considered successful and, although not all of the funds were utilized (about US$2.3 million
will be canceled from US$15.7 million), the used funds have resulted in substantial benefits which are
sustainable over the long term. Examining the reasons behind the successes of the project, and the reasons
why a few areas were implemented less strongly, leads to the following lessons learned.
Reasons why the project performed well:
I) Continuitv: A degree of continuity in the staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is critical to
developing and maintaining the experience, and retaining the institutional memory of the project. It also
helps to strengthen ownership within the Borrower side for the activities being conducted and their results.
2) Management: Within an overall framework of decision making over what activities are to be conducted
under the project, the PIU Director needs freedom and initiative to manage the implementation and
operation of the project. This provides the ownership and creates the responsibility which are needed to
drive the project forward.
3) Sponsorship: Project activities should only be conducted when there is a clear sponsor who is willing to
own and be responsible for the outcome from the beneficiary side. This minimizes the risks of work being
undertaken which is later not used or not sustainable, and eases the implementation by providing a clear
single point of contact for the PIU regarding the activity.
- 15 -



Areas where improvement could be made:
4) Administrative Efficiency: Government must be supportive and, whilst needing to keep track of the
financial and other obligations against the state budget, should endeavor to keep bureaucracy and
administration as simple as possible. Good coordination and smooth processes for the routine matters of
project implementation are extremely important as, although these items are individually small, the number
which takes place over the project lifetime is large and therefore any inefficiencies are magnified and
become apparent as overall delay factors in the project implementation.
5) Coordination: Coordinition within the implementing agency and with all of the parties involved in some
aspect of the project is the key to the efficient implementation as it affects decision making, the pace at
which agreed work can be performed, and the ultimate success of the project deliverables.
6) Bank Sunport: Bank supervision needs to be proactive and to respond in a timely manner. This applies
not just to Task Managers and others in Washington, but also to the local response capability in the
Resident Mission. The ability to provide advice, guidance and support from the local office is of great
importance to the PIU, and requires well-trained and capable local staff, and good coordination between
local staff and those based in Washington.
A further lesson for the Bank is that when preparing a project in a new borrowing country, which has no
previous experience of the Bank and limited understanding of the principles or structure of a market
economy, it is essential to field a strong Bank team for the project preparation. In this situation the project
team should have in depth knowledge of the Bank, experience of similar projects which can be drawn on,
and a range of skills sufficient to cover the full scope of the project, transfer understanding about the Bank
and its way of working, and build the relationship with the Government.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
To the Implementation Completion Report
(Core ICR) on the Loan in the amount of US$15,7 million
to the Republic of Kazakhstan for
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
1. Evaluation of Project Tasks and Objectives
The main tasks and objectives of the Project in general have been set logically and correctly from the very
beginning. Therefore, for the whole period of Project implementation its tasks and objectives have not been
revised and changed, and there have never been any proposals to make changes. All different assignments
on separate components (on consultants services, training and goods), performed under the Project, were
rather adequate to the Project objectives.
2. Results of Proiect Objectives lmplementation by Components
Part A: Foreign Investments Promotion
The implementation of this component by its items A(l) - "to support the Borrower's efforts to create an
effective framework for promoting foreign investment in the petroleum sector"; and A(3) - "to assist in
- 16-



carrying out technical, economic, legal and environmental feasibility studies of specific investments in
the petroleum sector and in the structuring and negotiation of specific investment transactions .wt:
prospective investors" has been performed highly satisfactory. The majority of perfonned assignments on
consultants services is referred to the successful implementation of this component under the specifiedl
items.
Under the assistance of financial advisor - firm J.P.Morgan the big work on attraction of potential foreign
investors for the Uzen Oilfield Rehabilitation Project and selection of Chinese National Petroleum
Company (CNPC) as the investor has been carried out. Legal advisor on this Project - firm Cameron
McKenna assisted in negotiations with CNPC and in preparation of legal documents on the establishment
of Joint Venture. Due to slowing down and suspense of negotiations with CNPC the work of legal advi sor
has also been stopped, and afterwards the contract with the consultant has been cancelled.
Under the largest project on the development of hydrocarbon resources at Caspian shelf the services of
financial and legal advisors - firms Price Waterhouse and Shearman &Sterling - for justification of
positions of Kazakhstani party and for negotiations with the members of lnternational Consortium
Kazakhstancaspishelf have been used.
Consultants of Shearman & Sterling also assisted in negotiations with members of alliance British
Gas/Agip under other largest project for the development of Karachaganak petroleum condensate field.
Consultant - Arthur D.Little carried out technical assessment of a Feasibility Study of Zhanazhol Gas
Processing Plant Expansion, and the results of the assessment bave been taken into account under
consideration of problems of further development of the Project.
In the nearest perspective for the successful development of oil production at Caspian Sea the establishment
of coastal infrastructure will be of great importance. Alliance International Manazement company has
prepared'the Program of coastal infrastructure development to support the offshore petroleum operations at
Caspian shelf, and firm Halliburton International. Inc. (acting through Brown & Root Services -
Consulting ) has developed a Feasibility Study of the establishment of the Base to support the offshore
petroleum operations in Bautino.
Gustavson Associates company has elaborated a Feasibility Study for the development and exploitation of
three hydrocarbon fields Alibekmnola, Kozhasai and Urikhtau in Aktubinsk region. This Feasibility Study
will be the main document to solve the issues of investment for the development of these fields that can
significantly strengthen the resource base and the volumes of hydrocarbons production of NO&(C
"Kazakhoil".
Legal advisor of firm Coudert Brothers (Central Asia) LLC - Almatv - assisted in preparation of legal
documents on joint exploration and production of hydrocarbons with foreign partner on the play Zhambai
Yuzhnyi - Yuzhnoe Zaburunye in Atyrau region.
The implementation of item A(2) of this component - "to formulate specific taxation policies for the
petroleum industry and draft the necessary legal regulatory instruments" is being evaluated satisfactorily.
In 1997 consultant - Ernst & Young company prepared the package of documents on drafting a section on
taxation of bowels users in petroleum industry. Though this draft has not been submitted for Parliament's
review, the number of its clauses has been taken into account under insertion of amendments in the Tax
Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and preparation of number of sublaw acts.
- 17 -



Part B: Petroleum Industry Restructuring and Corporatization
The implementation of this component is carried out under its items B(l) - "establishment by the Projects
Companies of financial management control procedures to ensure the effective performance of the
enterprises under their control"; B(3) - "definition and implementation of restructuring and
rationalization options for selected enterprises in the sector"; and B(4) - "determination of the position of
restructured enterprises and initial determination of the financial position and value of enterprises
selectedfor privatization". This work in general can be evaluated as satisfactory.
Consultant - firm Ernst & Young developed the working capital financing Plan and organizational
restructuring Plan for JSC "Uzenmunaigaz". It was required to prepare these two documents to meet the
conditions of Loan #4061-KZ granting under Uzen oilfield rehabilitation Project.
Under this Uzen Project consultants' services of firm Pepper. Hamilton & Scheetz have been used for the
legal processing of documents on privatization, and the services of financial advisor - firm Deutsche
Morgan Grenfell have been attracted for the development of privatization Plan of JSC "Uzenmunaigas".
Due to changes of Uzen Project status the work of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell has been suspended, and
then the contract with this consultant has been cancelled.
Consultant - Infonnation center VENlgeosvstem (Russia) prepared the program on the establishment of
Geoinformation system of collection, storage and management of geological geophysical data of NO&GC
"Kazakhoil".  Another consultant - firm LG-EDS Systems Inc. performed the assignment on the
development of design and technical specifications for the Electronic Document Management System of
NO&GC "Kazakhoil". Both projects shall assist in perfecting of administration activity of Company and
formation of future corporate automated management system.
Objectives of item B(2) - "provision o,f office equipment to support the implementation by the Project
Companies of improved financial and management control procedures" - in general remain
unimplemented. The procurement of computer and office equipment for the PMIU, that allowed to improve
the activity of the PMIU and NO&GC "Kazakhoil" in management and implementation of the Project, can
be partially referred to achievement of these objectives.
In general the achievement of Project objectives on this component concerning petroleum industry
restructuring and corporatization was less scaled due to rapid privatization of many leading state
companies and enterprises, including petroleum industry (e.g. "Mangistaumunaigas", "Aktobemunaigas",
Shymkent and Pavlodar Refineries and etc.), that took place in Kazakhstan in 1995-1996 under the
implementation of other state programs and projects.
Part C: Petroleum Industry Training
The implementation of this component that has been carried out most successfully is evaluated as highly
satisfactory. In 1995 was established Petroleum Industry Training Center (PITC) that underwent a
difficult stage of formation and now is operating successfully. PITC, coordinated by Advisory Board,
organizes and coordinates the work on preparation of programs and plans for training of specialists of
petroleum industry of the Republic, on training seminars and secondments abroad carrying out, provision
of educational supplies and materials.
Under the objectives of items C(l) - "identifying and addressing, through development of appropriate
training plans and programs, priority training needs in the petroleum sector"; and C(2) - "preparing
- 18 -



and carrying out training programs in market-oriented petroleum industry operations and management,
petroleum economics and marketing practices" of this component, consultant - firm lHRDC performed
two assignments under two contracts. In 1997 was developed the Program on the offshore petroleum
specialties personnel training and Program for Petroleum Industry Training Center development, and in
1999 was prepared the Program on the offshore petroleum operations training.
Under the objective of C(2) for training carrying out, two equipment procurements for Petroleum Industry
Training Center (supplier - firm ALSI) and for the regional Training Center (supplier firm - Universal
Business S&stems) were carried out.
Under the objectives of items C (1) and C (2) a part of consultant's work on preparation and carrying out of
study and business training abroad of specialists of NO&GC "Kazakhoil" on the offshore petroleum
operations has also been performed by firm ENSPM Formation Industrie (France). The main part of
this consultant work on study and business training applies to the objectives of item C(3) - "implementing a
program of training seminars in Kazakhstan and of secondment abroad of selected managers in the
petroleum industry". Under this item consultants' services of ]HRDC on carrying out of two seminars at
the beginning of 1998: the first seminar for the senior management of petroleum companies of Kazakhstan,
including visiting and acquaintance with the activity of national petroleum companies of Venezuela and
Malaysia; and the second seminar for the middle management of NO&GC "Kazakhoil" in Almaty, were
carried out successfully.
PartD: Pipeline Feasibility Studies
Only one work has been performed under the implementation of this component Consultant - firm Price
Waterhouse carried out the economic evaluation of building project of West Kazakhstan - Kumkol
pipeline.
Part E: Natural Gas Investment Strategies
The implementation of this component has not been carried out since the researches and developments in
the sphere of problems of exploration, production and transportation of natural gas in Kazakhstan have
been commenced and have been carried out under the World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP).
Part F: Project Administration
In accordance with the Loan Agreement the Proiect Management and Implementation Unit (PMIU) was
established in March 1995 and initially was operating within the Ministry of Oil and Gas Industry of the
Republic of Kazakhstan, and then from April 1997 within newly established National Oil and Gas
Company "Kazakhoil" that was authorized to represent Borrower's interests under this Project.
The PMIU was provided with functions and authorities satisfactory to the Bank, and carried out the overall
coordination and administration of the activities on the Project implementation in general as well as on each
separate component thereof. The Director-consultant of the PMIU was designated Mr. Sh. Zhanseitov,
who has wide experience, high qualification and authorities satisfactory to the Bank.
Excluding the Director, the small staff of the PMIU permanently included an accountant and interpreter,
whose qualification and quality of work were always highly evaluated.
- 19 -



The PMIU carried out its activity on the services and goods procurement, expenditure (utilization) of Loan
proceeds, training of specialists and on overall coordination and supervision of separate contracts execution
procedures, as well as of the Project in general, in full conformity with the Loan Agreement, rules,
instructions and guidelines of the World Bank on the work under its loans. All the activities on the Project
implementation were agreed with the World Bank, Project Leaders from the Bank as well as from the
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Financial Statements on the utilization of Loan
proceeds for each year, commencing with the Report for the year 1995, were subject to an independent
audit.   The auditors were firms Ernst & Young and Price Waterhouse, that later has become
PricewaterhouseCoopers (according to the Reports of 1996-1996).
The PMIU activity was permanently evaluated as satisfactory by the Supervision Missions that were
periodically supervising its work, was satisfactorily noted at annual meetings on the review of portfolio of
projects financed by the World Bank (Cl'PR) and was approved by the Ministry of Finance (Committee for
Extemal Loans) of the Republic.
3. Operational Experience of Project
During the period of Project implementation, from 1995, the employees of NO&GC "Kazakhoil" and its
subsidiaries and, in particular, of the PMIU have significantly improved their knowledge and qualification
and gained wide useful experience of work on the implementation of projects financed by the World Bank,
the experience that could be effectively used in other future projects, that are financed not only by the
World Bank but also by other international and private financial organizations. First of all that applies to
operational experience for preparation and conducting of open bids (tenders) on services, goods and works
procurement, on evaluation of tender proposals, elaboration of contractual terms and conditions and control
of their execution, on financial and accounting records of loan proceeds expenditure, training of specialists
and etc. And such experience is already being implemented by the specialists of NO&GC "Kazakhoil"
under the realization of some other projects.
4. Evaluation of Borrower's Performance. Lessons Learned
The performance of works on preparation and implementation of the project by the Borrower, presented by
the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Ministry of Finance and final user - NO&GC "Kazakhoil",
as a whole, can be evaluated as satisfactory. At the same time it should be acknowledged that it was not
accidentally that the Closing Date of the Loan - July 31, 1997 was extended for three times and was finally
determined as March 31, 2000. The Project realization could be implemented within lesser terms without
the extension of the Closing Date of the l_oan and be more effective under the separate components of the
project.
Delays in Project implementation took place mainly because of several changes in the management
structure of petroleum industry, finances or foreign loans, frequent changes in administration of these
structures, because of uncoordinated and inconsequent actions of separate ministries and institutions of the
Republic and because of complicated bureaucratic procedures on agreements and decision making in
managerial structures. For example, due to the changes in the structure of petroleum enterprises, the signed
Loan Agreement of December 6, 1994 had to be amended, and it was ratified by the Decree of the
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on May 12, 1995 and came into effect only on September 8, 1995.
The signing of letters, concerning the necessary reallocation of Loan proceeds among the Project categories
or regarding the submission of signature samples of new persons, authorized to withdraw Loan proceeds
from the Credit Account, by the Minister of Finance also took time. Delays and decrease of the
effectiveness of Project implementation took place because of long procedures of decision making and
-20 -



organization of bids under this or that assignment for the services procuremeni, because of delays of review
of consultants reports and etc.
The Government, Ministry of Finance, beneficiary and other organizations of the Republic shall learn their
lessons from the errors and omissions made under the implementation of this Project in order to take them
into account under the implementation of other projects, financed by the World Bank and other
international financial organizations.
5. Evaluation of Bank and Project Cofinanciers Performance
5.1 The Bank and its divisions performance of works, promoting the Project implementation (review of
docunments submitted by the Borrower, preparation of comments and Bank's no-objections for these
documents, attraction of independent experts to assist in separate specific assignments, drawing up of
applications for withdrawal of proceeds from the Credit Account, Project implementation supervision), as a
whole is evaluated as satisfactory. As to the activity of the majority of direct Project Leaders of Energy
Sector it can be evaluated as highly satisfactory, their work was characterized as the great concern for the
Project problems, aspiration for its fast and effective implementation.
At the same time, it should be acknowledged, that superfluously complicated bureaucratic procedures of
documents review and agreement in the Bank also influenced the rates and effectiveness of Project
implementation. There was no proper concern in Project progress in the work of some Bank's departments
(first of all of Procurement Department as well as in the work of accounting and Bank's mail), prolonged
review of documents and delays because of insignificant remarks or small procedural omissions took place.
5.2  Project cofinancing from  Kazakhstani part was not stipulated under the Loan Agreement.
Nevertheless, since March 1995 former Ministry of Oil and Gas Industry (MOGI) of the Republic of
Kazakhstan and its subordinate companies, and later since April 1997 NO&GC "Kazakhoil" and its
subsidiaries bore significant expenses to provide the implementation of the Project and its separate
components that can be evaluated as cofinancing of the Project from Kazakhstani part (about
US$370,000).
The bigger portion of cofinancing is referred to the expenses for major repairs and equipment of newly
established Petroleum Industry Training Center (PITC), for the payment of salaries during two years
(1996-1997) for the Center's employees, rent of premises, public utilities and communication services.
These expenses amounted to more than US$306,000.
MOGI and then Kazakhoil provided normal conditions to the PMIU for carrying out its functions and
authorities on Project management and implementation, having taken all the expenses for the rent of
premises for the PMIU offices, payment for international phone and fax communication, courier and other
communication services and public utilities, as well as supply with stationary (total amount comes
approximately to US$62,000).  After. the Closing Date of the Loan - March 31, 2000, the PMIU shall
draw up all documents, make all payments under the contracts completed to this date and take part in the
preparation of the final edition of the Implementation Completion Reporting. NO&GC "Kazakhoil" shall
pay all the expenses of the PMIU for this period (during three months) from its own proceeds, including
remunerations of the PMIU staff that will approximately amount to US$9,000.
ln addition, it should be taken into account, that with a view of economy of loan proceeds in accordance
with the terms and conditions of majority of contracts on consultants services, the client, within the limits
of the possible, provided consultants its services and equipment: offices, computer and other equipment,
-21 -



means of international and local communication, support personnel, vehicles for local transportation and
etc. Special calculation for such services was not recorded from the client's part, but these were not small
expenses.
6. Actions on the Further Development of the Proiect.
The outputs of most works executed under the implementation of this Project have already been partially
used in the practical activity of NO&GC "Kazakhoil" and will be used in future for the successful and
effective development of the Company and petroleum industry of Kazakhstan.
in particular, the works carried out by the consultants under this Project for Uzen Oilfield Rehabilitation
Project (J.P.Morgan; and Cameron McKenna on the attraction of foreign investments; Emst & Young on
the development of working capital financing plans and restructuring of JSC "Uzenmunaigas"; and
Pepper, Hamilton and Scheetz; and Deutsche Morgan Grenfell on privatization of JSC "Uzenmunaigas"),
promoted the World Bank Loan N4061-KZ granting for Uzen Project Currently NO&GC "Kazakhoil"
carries out the actions on the implementation of this Loan and the further development of Uzen Project.
The use of consultants services of Shearman & Sterling; and Price Waterhouse in the negotiations with
foreign members of Kazakhstancaspishelf Consortium and British Gas/Agip alliance on Karachaganak
field promoted the signing of appropriate contracts. Now, the Operational company, established by the
members of Consortium, carries out the exploration drilling works on the Caspian shelf (on the structure
Kashagan); and the Alliance continues the further development of Karachaganak field.
The technical assessment of the Feasibility Study of Zhanazhol Gas Processing Plant (GPP) Expansion,
carried out by Arthur D. Little, allowed to outline the insertion of amendments to this project. However,
the situation has. changed, the control on GPP passed on to CNPC, and this has become the concern of
CNPC.  Similarly has changed the situation on the project of pipeline Western Kazakhstan - Kumkol
construction. Earlier Price Waterhouse carried out the economical assessment of this project and specified
the problems and conditions under which this pipeline can not be profitable. But then, the project of this
pipeline was bound up with the pipeline project Western Kazakhstan - China, a Feasibility Study of which
had to be developed by CNPC.
The Program and Feasibility Study developed by the consultants of AIM (Alliance International
Management) and Halliburton International, Inc. (Brown & Root Services - Consulting) on the
establishment of coastal infrastructure to support the offshore petroleum operations on the Caspian Sea will
be the basis for the planning and establishment in the nearest future of the infrastructure components which
are very important for the development of the offshore operations in this region.
To improve the potential of NO&GC "Kazakhoil" and the development of oil and gas production on the
new fields, the big practical significance have the Feasibility Study of the development of Alibekmola,
Kozhasai and Urikhtau fields, elaborated by Gustavson Associates, and documents on the joint exploration
and production of hydrocarbons with foreign partner on Zhambai structure, prepared under the assistance
of legal consultant Coudert Brothers (Central Asia) LLC - Almaty.
The number of draft clauses on taxation of bowels users in petroleum industry, developed by Ernst &
Young, is proposed to be used under the preparation of the new draft Tax Code of Kazakhstan.
The Program of the establishment of Geoinformation system of collection, storage and management of
geological geophysical data, developed by Information Center VNllGeosystem, and the results of work of
-22 -



LG-EDS Systems
Inc. on the development of design and technical specifications of the electronic document management
system are the constituent parts of corporate automatic management system of NO&GC "Kazakhoil"
planned to be established.
The system of continuous training in the petroleum industry of Kazakhstan is seen extremely effective in
the nearest future. The establishment and development of Petroleum Industry Training Center in Almaty,
assistance in the establishment of regional training centers, equipment procurement for training centers,
specialists training programs and Career plan, developed by lHRDC, seminars and abroad business
training of NO&GC "Kazakhoil" specialists carried out under the Project are the example of successful
beginning of the formation of modem system of continuos training in the industry.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
-23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
None defined
Output Indicators:
None defined
End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
A Porign nvesmentPromotion                           5.90             6.50            110
B Petroleum Industry Restructuring and Corporatization    5.30             3.55             67
C Petroleum Industry Training                             3.30             3.11             94
D Pipeline Feasibility Studies                            0.70             0.20             29
E Natural Gas Investment Strategies                       1.10             0.00              0
F Project Administration                                  0.70             0.36             51
Contingencies                                             2.60
Total Baseline Cost                                      19.60            13.72
Total Project Costs                19.60             13.72    _______l3_7
Total Financing Required                 19.60            13.72
Project Costs by Procurement Arangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          0.70          0.00          0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.70)        (0.00)        (0.70)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.00         2.10          2.10
Studies                      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Services                   0.00          0.00          13.50         0.00         13.50
Consultants                  (0.00)         (0.00)       (11.90)       (0.00)       (11.90)
5. Training                   0.00          0.00          1.80          0.00          1.80
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.60)        (0.00)        (1.60)
6. Refinancing PPF            0.00          0.00          1.50          0.00          1.50
_(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.50)        (0.00)        (1.50)
Total                      0.00          0.00          17.50         2.10         19.60
(0.00)        (0.00)       (15.70)       (0.00)        15.70)
-25 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate (US$ million e uivalent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  11                                        - E E
1. Works                           0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.00            0.00            O.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.36)          (0.00)          (0.36)
3. Services                        0.(0            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
Studies                           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Services                        0.()            0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00
Consultants                       (0.()0           00)            (9.66)          (0.00)           (.6
5. Training                        0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (2.47)          (0.00)          (2.47)
6. Refinancing PPF                 0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.85)         (0.00)           (0.85)
Total                           0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (13.34)          (0.00)         (13.34)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
I' Lncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) mnanaging the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  b  Comr   nent (in USS million e uivlent
A Foreign Investment        4.74       1.14                  6.50       0.00                137.1   0.0    0.0
Promotion
B Petroleum Industry       4.31       0.98                   3.55       0.00                82.4    0.0    0.0
Restracturing and
Corporatlation
C Petroleum Industry       2.69        0.63                  2.80       0.31                104.1   49.2    0.0
Training
D Pipeline Feasibility     0.57       0.14                   0.20       0.00                35.1    0.0    0.0
Studies
E Natural Gas Investment    0.89       0.2.1                 0.00       0.00                 0.0    0.0    0.0
Strategies
F Project Administration   0.54       0.112                 0.29        0.07                53.7   58.3    0.0
Contingencies               1.96       0.65                                                  0.0    0.0    0.0
- 26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No formal evaluation of economic costs and benefits was made during the project appraisal.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage Qf Project Cyck      !No. of Persorisand:Speialty               PerFonace Rain
.                      (e.g. 2 E~~~~~~~~~cOonoiss ITFMS, tc  Imploe enaion     D Ieomn
Month/.Year ~Cbuntj~~  Specat                              ProrsObjeciv
Identification/Preparation
02/93                         1   1 Mission Leader
05/93                        .10    1 Mission Leader, I Team
Leader, I Sr. Oil Industry
Expert, I Petroleum Expert, I
Pipeline and Production Facility
Expert, I pipeline Expert, I Sr.
Oil Refining Expert, 1 Lawyer,
I Operational Advisor, I
Research Assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
08/93                         3    1 Mission Leader, I Traning
Specialist, I Procurement
Specialist
11/93                         2    1 MissionLeader, I Team
Leader
02/94                         1    1 Mission Leader
Supervision
09/94                          2   1 Mission Leader, I                  S                 HS
Petroleum Specialist
01/95                          2   1 Mission Leader, I Petroleum        S                 U
Specialist
04/95                          1   1 Missioin Leader                    U                  S
10/95                          2   1 Mission Leader, I Petroleum        S                 S
Engineer
12/95                         3   1 Task Leader, I Engineer, I          S                 S
Operations Analyst
05/96                          2   1 Task Leader, I Training            S                  S
Specialist
10/96                         3   1 Task Manager, I Operations          S                 S
Analyst, I Engineer
02/97                          4   1 Task Manaer, I Operatons           S                  S
Analyst, I Procurement
Specialist, I Petroleum Engineer
11/97                         3   1 Task Manager, I Legal               S                 S
Specialist, I Petroleum Engineer
06/98                          3   1 Task Manager, I Legal              S                  S
Specialist, 1 Operations Analyst
12/98                          4   1 Mission Leader, I Sr. Legal        S                 S
Counsel, I Legal Specialist, I
Financial Analyst
04/99                          4   1 Mission Leader, I Legal            S                  S
Specialist, I Financial Analyst, I
Financial Management Officer
- 28 -



06/99                          4   1 Mission Leader, I Legal             S                  S
Specialist, I Financial
Management Officer, I
Operatons Officer
10/99                          3   1 Mission Leader, 1 Legal             S                  S
Specialist, 1 Financial
Management Officer
01/00                          3   1 Mission Leader, 1 Procurement       S                  S
Specialist, 1 Financial
Management Officer
ICR
04/00                          3    1 Mission Leader, I                  S                  S
Technical Specialist. I
Financial Management
Officer
(b) Staff:
Stageof Project CyleActualILatest Estimate
-_______-_______-__    :N:. Sitff week_                      US$ (, -:
i Identification/Preparation               125.7                        373.5
_ Appraisal/Negotiation                     53.9                        166.3
Supervision                              121.0                        391.0
ICR                                        4.0                          4.0
Total                                    304.6         T              934.8
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          O H  O SU O M  ON  * NA
Sector Policies                        O H  * SU O M  ON  O NA
? Physical                               O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
I Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Gender                          O H O SU O M O N * NA
OI Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development             * H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfctory, S=Satisfkctory, U=Unsatisfactry, HU-=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
B Lending                                           OHS*S Ou OHU
ER Supervision                                      0HS eSO Ou   OHU
F Overall                                           OHSes   Ou  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS   O  U  Oh Hu
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O U  O HU
F Overall                                           OHS eS   OU  O Hu
-31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Documents in the Files include:
- copies of major contracts
- Legal Documents
- Back-to-Office Reports
- Correspondence on Procurement issues
- Otier correspondence
- 32 -



