Report No. PIC779
Project Name         Kazakhstan-Oil and Gas Technical Assistance Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Energy
Product ID                KZPA8501
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Energy and Fuel Resources
Contact: Ms. Bahitt Utetileouva
Department of Oil and Gas
Tel: (7-3272) 626-080
Fax: (7-3272) 637-633
Date Prepared             January 13, 1994
Projected Board Date      March 1994
Objectives
1.   The primary objective of the project is to assist the Government to
strengthen the capacity of the key petroleum subsector agencies to: (a)
attract foreign investments into the subsector; (b) promote increased
efficiency in and the long-term financial viability of the petroleum
industries; and (c) formulate economically sound investment and
organization strategies for the integration of domestic primary
petroleum production, processing, transport and distribution.
Description
2.   The proposed project consists of the following components:
(a) Advisory Services for Foreign Investment Negotiations and
Promotion (US$5.2 million). This component would provide
support to the Government in creating an effective framework
for promoting foreign investments in the petroleum subsector
through assistance in finalizing in Petroleum Law and in the
formulation of a taxation code for petroleum operations and in
structuring and negotiating transactions with prospective
investors;
(b) Support for Petroleum Industry Restructuring and
Corporatization (base cost: US$4.2 million). This component
would assist the Government to implement effectively a program
of corporatization and restructuring of the petroleum
industry, and prepare the basis for increased private sector
participation in the industry;
(c) Petroleum Industry Training and Training Management (base
cost: US$3.3 million). This component would assist the
Government to identify and address priority management
training needs in the sector, and prepare and administer a
program of training in market-oriented petroleum industry
operational and marketing practices;
(d)  Pipeline Feasibility Studies (base cost: US$0.7 million). The



planned studies under this component would review the economic
feasibility of the Government's plans to construct new product
pipelines as well as a crude oil pipeline to connect the oil
fields in the west to the two refineries in the eastern part
of the country;
(e) Natural Gas Investment Strategy (base cost: US$1.1 million).
This component would provide assistance for the assessment of
the regional and domestic market potential for natural gas and
the supply and investment options for Kazakhstan in the
subsector.
Implementation
3.   Overall responsibility for the implementation of the project would
reside in the Ministry of Energy and Fuel Resources (MEFR). MEFR would
monitor the overall performance of the consultants, review the
recommendations and conclusions of the studies and decide on the steps
to be taken for their implementation. To support MEFR's project
management and coordination responsibilities, a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) would be established in MEFR. This unit would coordinate and
provide support for all project activities including procurement, loan
disbursements, and the day-to-day coordination and monitoring of the
work of consultants. The PIU would also provide secretarial support to
the senior official of MEFR charged with project oversight.
Environmental Aspects
4.   The proposed project has been classified as Category C. However,
there are significant environmental issues in the activities that would
be supported under the proposed project. Direct environmental
implications arising from reviews of investment options in oil and gas
processing and transportation would be addressed as part of the proposed
program of studies.
Costs and Financing
Estimated Project Cost and Financing:
World Bank                US$  15.7 million
Government                      1.8 million
Total                US$  17.5 million
Contact Point :      Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
-2 -



components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
Rev 1
- 3 -



