Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3744 KZ
                              Loan Agreement
                 (Petroleum Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                          REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated December 6, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3744 KZ
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF
KAZAKHSTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Borrower with
the assistance of the Project Companies (as hereinafter
defined) and, to make possible such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the Project Companies a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means any of the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and each Project Company
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary
Agreement;
    (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated March 3, 1993 and July 12, 1993
between the Borrower and the Bank;
    (c)   "MG" means Munaigas, the Borrower's National Oil and
Gas Holding Company;
    (d)   "MOG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Oil and Gas
Industry;
    (e)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
    (f)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to
in Part F of the Project;
    (g)   "MG Subsidiary Agreement" means the Subsidiary
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MG
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
    (h)   "KZG" means Kazakhgas, the Borrower's National Gas
Production and Transmission Holding Company;
    (i)   "KZF" means Kazakhgazifikatsiya, the Borrower's
National Gas Distribution Holding Company;
    (j)   "KZP" means Kaznefteprodukt, the Borrower's National
Petroleum Product Distribution Holding Company;
    (k)   "Project Company" means any of the following:  MG, KZG,
KZF and KZP, and "Project Companies" means MG, KZG, KZF and KZP
referred to collectively;
    (l)   "Advisory Board" means the advisory board referred to
in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement;
    (m)   "Training Center" means the training center referred to
in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; and
    (n)   "Special Account" means the special deposit account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
Page  3
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of fifteen million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($15,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the
Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
Page  4
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.08. The Borrower's Minister of Oil and Gas
Industry is designated as representative of the Borrower in
respect of the Project for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out, through MOG,
Parts A (1) and (3), B, C, D, E and F of the Project, with the
assistance of the Project Companies as hereinafter provided,
and Part A (2) of the Project through MOF, with the assistance
of MOG, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, petroleum industry, training
and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall make available the portion of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) (a) and (3)
(a) in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Project
Companies under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and each of
the Project Companies, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank, including provisions on
procurement, project accounting and audit, use of the proceeds
of the Loan, consultants' services, right of the Bank to
Page  5
supervise directly the execution of the Project, reporting
requirement, insurance and cost recovery.
    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts B (1) and (2) of the Project shall be carried
out by each Project Company pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreements.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is at
all times headed by a high ranking official of MOG, assisted by
a coordinator with qualifications, terms of reference and
experience satisfactory to the Bank, who shall be also assisted
by qualified staff in adequate numbers and by consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, advising on the following matters:
procurement, disbursements, training and general project
coordination and supervision.
    Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)   carry out all studies included in the Project
                under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
                which, when applicable, shall include specific
                programs or plans of action to meet the
                objectives of the Project;
         (ii)   promptly after the completion of each study,
                furnish to the Bank copy of its findings and
                recommendations including such programs or plans
                of action; and
        (iii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                comment on such findings, recommendations and
                programs or plans of action.
    (b)   The Borrower undertakes to carry out the programs and
plans of action referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section as
required to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to take into account the
findings and recommendations of the studies included under the
Project in its future investment plans in the petroleum and gas
sectors.
    Section 3.06. Regarding the training programs to be carried
out under the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   establish a training center (the Training Center)
responsible for the execution of Part C of the Project;
    (b)   establish an advisory board (the Advisory Board),
satisfactory to the Bank, including representatives of the
Project Companies and other petroleum sector enterprises, to
advise the Borrower on the content, scope and timing of the
training programs to be carried out under the Project and
assist in the supervision and evaluation of such programs;
Page  6
    (c)   after the Advisory Board has evaluated and approved the
training programs to be carried out under the Project, furnish
to the Bank for approval the content of each of such programs
as well as the schedule for its implementation;
    (d)   select the beneficiaries of such training programs in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
    (e)   not later than September 30 of each year, exchange
views with the Bank on the training programs to be carried out
in the following calendar year; and
    (f)   furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each
training program and the benefits to be derived therefrom.
    Section 3.07. Not later than June 30 and December 31 of each
year, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a list
of the proposed investments to be reviewed under Part A (3) of
the Project.
    Section 3.08. Not later than January 31, 1995, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, defining the scope of restructuring and privatization
actions to be taken by the Borrower with regard to the
petroleum sector. Such plan shall include a timetable for the
execution of such actions.
    Section 3.09. (a) Not later than July 31, 1995, the Borrower
and the Bank shall exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Project, and the plan referred to in Section
3.08 of this Agreement.
    (b)   Prior to such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project and such plan, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
    Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall establish arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, to recover the cost of legal and
invest- ment technical assistance services provided under the
Project for the benefit of juridically independent petroleum
sector enterprises.
    (b)   As part of the foregoing, the Borrower shall establish
and apply a fee system, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
training provided under the Project, which will allow the
Borrower to recover the reasonable cost of all expenditures
incurred by the Borrower in providing training services to the
staff of such petroleum sector enterprises.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower (including the Project
Companies) responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section and the Special
                Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently applied, by independent auditors
                acceptable to the Bank;
Page  7
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six (6) months after the
                end of each such year, the report of such audit
                by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and the
                audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
                year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Any Project Company shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under a Subsidiary Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that a Project
Company will be able to perform its obligations under a
Subsidiary Agreement.
    (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of a Project Company or for the suspension of
its operations and such dissolution, disestablishment or
suspension of operations has materially affected the execution
of the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
Page  8
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   that the MG Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and MG; and
    (b)   that the Borrower, through MOG, has employed a project
execution advisor and a procurement advisor, with terms of
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, for the
PIU.
    Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the MG Subsidiary Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and MG,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and MG in accordance
with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Borrower's Minister of Finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          97 Ablai-Khan Av.
          Almaty, 480091
          Republic of Kazakhstan
                                         Telex:
                                           251 245 FILIN
    With copies to:
          Ministry of Oil and Gas Industry
          142 Bogenbay Batyr Street
          Almaty, 480091
          Republic of Kazakhstan
                                         Telex:
                                           251-154
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                   248423 (RCA)
Page  9
                Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
                       By /s/ Toleutaj Souleimenov
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated            % of
                                (Expressed in         Expenditures
 Category                     Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                                     100%
    services:
    (a)  under Part                1,900,000
         B(1) of the
         Project
    (b)  under Part A(2)             200,000
         of the
         Project
    (c)  under Part C(1)           1,900,000
         and C(2) of
         the Project
    (d)  under the other           6,100,000
         Parts of the
         Project
(2) Training expenditures          1,400,000        100%
    under Part C(3) of
    the Project
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated           % of
                                (Expressed in        Expenditures
 Category                     Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) Office                                           100% of foreign
Page  10
    equipment:                                       expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
    (a)  under Part B(2)              500,000        expenditures
         of the                                      (ex-factory
         Project                                     cost) and 75%
                                                     of local
    (b)  under the other              100,000        expenditures for
         Parts of the                                other items
          Project                                    procured locally
(4) Refunding of                    1,500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                          pursuant to
    Preparation                                      Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                          of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                     2,100,000
                                   __________
         TOTAL                     15,700,000
                                   ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b)
expenditures incurred by a Project Company under Categories
1(a) or 3(a), unless the Bank has received evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such Project Company and the
Borrower have entered into a valid and binding Subsidiary
Agreement which covers such expenditures; and (c) expenditures
incurred under Categories 1(c) and 2 unless the Bank has
received evidence that the Borrower has established the
Training Center and the Advisory Board in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and services not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to provide assistance in
the design and development of the Borrower's policies and
strategies aimed at: (a) attracting foreign investment into its
petroleum sector; (b) promoting the efficiency and long-term
technical and financial viability of the petroleum industry;
and (c) formulating least-cost and economically sound
investment and organization strategies for the integration of
processing, transport and distribution of domestic petroleum
products.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Foreign Investment Promotion
Page  11
    Provision of technical assistance and training services: (1)
to support the Borrower's efforts to create an effective
framework for promoting foreign investment in the petroleum
sector; (2) to formulate specific taxation policies for the
petroleum industry and draft the necessary legal and regulatory
instruments; and (3) to assist in carrying out technical,
economic, legal and environmental feasibility studies of
specific investments in the petroleum sector and in the
structuring and negotiation of specific investment transactions
with prospective investors.
Part B:   Petroleum Industry and Restructuring and
          Corporatization
    Provision of technical assistance, training services and
office equipment, to assist the Borrower in carrying out a
program for the corporatization and restructuring of the
petroleum industry and establishing the basis for an increased
private sector participation in the industry, including: (1)
establishment by the Project Companies of financial management
control procedures to ensure the effective performance of the
enterprises under their control; (2) provision of office
equipment to support the implementation by the Project
Companies of improved financial and management control
procedures; (3) definition and implementation of restructuring
and rationalization options for selected enterprises in the
sector; and (4) determination of the position of restructured
enterprises and initial determination of the financial position
and value of enterprises selected for privatization.
Part C:   Petroleum Industry Training
    Provision of technical assistance, training services, and
equipment and materials to assist the Borrower in: (1)
identifying and addressing, through development of appropriate
training plans and programs, priority training needs in the
petroleum sector; (2) preparing and carrying out training
programs in market-oriented petroleum industry operations and
management, petroleum economics and marketing practices; and
(3) implementing a program of training seminars in Kazakhstan
and of secondment abroad of selected managers in the petroleum
industry.
Part D:   Pipeline Feasibility Studies
    Provision of technical assistance services to review the
technical, economic, legal and environmental feasibility of
specific investment projects included in the Borrower's plans
to construct oil product pipelines as well as a crude oil
pipeline to connect the oil fields in Western Kazakhstan to the
refineries in Eastern Kazakhstan.
Part E:   Natural Gas Investment Strategies
    Provision of technical assistance services to assist the
Borrower in: (1) assessing the regional and domestic market
potential for natural gas; and (2) designing plans and
strategies regarding the supply and investment options for
Kazakhstan to participate in meeting such market demands.
Part F:   Project Administration
    Establishment and operation of a project implementation unit
(the PIU), within MOG, with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including the overall coordination
and administration of the activities to be carried out under
the Project and the procurement of goods and services required
therefor.
                                   * * *
Page  12
    The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
    beginning November 15, 1999
    through November 15, 2010                  655,000
And on May 15, 2011                            635,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                       The interest rate (expressed
                                       as a percentage per annum)
                                       applicable to the Loan on
                                       the day of prepayment
                                       multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
Page  13
More than 11 years but not                         0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                          1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.        Items or groups of items for office equipment may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.        Items or groups of items for office equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part B:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.        The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
Page  14
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  15
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
