RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA-116a
This report is for ofricial use onl by the Bank Group and specificaly authorized orpnizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without BDtk Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept respondbility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INDIA
February 14, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           -       Rs 7.28
Rs1            -      US$ 0.14
Rs 1,000              US$137.37
Rs 1,000,000   -      US$137,376
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Hetric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC  -  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
GOI  -  Government of India
GSDA -  Maharashtra Groundwater and Development Agency
LDA  -  Maharashtra Land Development Agency
LDB  -  Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development
Bank
RBI  -  Reserve Bank of India
FISCAL YEAR (ARC AND LDB)
July 1 - June 30



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............... .. .....  .......   i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION         .........................................    1
II.   BACKGROUND ....      .      .      .....................................    1
A.  India .........................................1.. 
B.  The State of Maharashtra ..... *..................          2
General Description .....      ...................   2
Agricultural Structure .....       .................    3
Agricultural Development Priorities ........         3
Introduction ....................    ........     3
Minor Irrigation ..........   *............    3
Land Development .....     .................      4
Mechanization .....     ..................        5
Agricultural Inputs and Services ......... ..    5
Credit Services .....     ...................        5
III.   THE PROJECT ..........................................    6
A.  Definition   .......................................         6
B.  Detailed Features ......      ....................           6
Minor Irrigation ..................    .........    6
Land Development .....        .....................    7
Consultancy Services ................... .. ...    8
Groundwater .....     ...................         8
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing .....................          8
D.  Procurement ....... ..............................   10
E.  Disbursements .......        .............................   11
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....         .....................   11
Introduction        ...............................   11
Agricultural Refinance Corporation .... .....  11
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
India in March/April 1971 and was composed of Messrs. C. H. Walton, G. Luhman,
and P. K. Pohland (IDA) and D. I. Allen and J-M. Daniel (Consultants), all
of whom contributed to this report.



-2-
Page No.
Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development
Bank      ..................................   12
Organization and Management ....   .........  12
Resources ......................  12
Operational Results .....     ................  12
Rehabilitation of LMB System .... ........  13
Lending Policies and Terms ....    ..........  14
Accounts and Auditing .....    ..............  15
Commercial Banks .... ......... ..........      15
Groundwater Surveys and Development
Agency      ..................................   16
Land Development Agency ................... .   17
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS ...  17
Production .     ...............................   17
Markets     ....................................  18
Prices   .............*-   ........*   ............@   18
Farmers' Benefits ....       ......................  18
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....    ......................  20
vII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....................   . ................  21
SCHEDULE A - Minor Irrigation: Appraisal Criteria and Procedures
SCHEDULE B - Project Lending Terms and Conditions
SCHEDULE C - Participating Primary Banks
ANNEXES
1.  Minor Irrigation
Appendix 1-1 - Basins and Gaging Stations for Minor Irrigation Development
Appendix 1-2 - Terms of Reference for Proposed Consultancy Services to
Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency
2.  Land Development
Appendix 2-1 - Schemes in Land Development Program 1973 - 1975
Appendix 2-2 - Land Development Cost Phasing
Appendix 2-3 - Land Development Area and Cost Estimates by Activity



-3-
3.   The Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Appendix 3-1 - Condensed Statements of Net Income
Appendix 3-2 - Projected Statements of Net Income
Appendix 3-3 - Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 3-4 - Projected Balance Sheets
4.   Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd. and Primary
Land Development Banks
Appendix 4-1 - Borrowers' Overdues to Primary Banks
Appendix 4-2 - Overdues Collection Program
Appendix 4-3 - Condensed Statements of Net Income
Appendix 4-4 - Projected Statements of Net Income
Appendix 4-5 - Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 4-6 - Projected Balance Sheets
5.   Commercial Banks Operating in Maharashtra
6.   Project Cost and Disbursements
Appendix 6-1 - Details of Estimated Project Cost
Appendix 6-2 - Details of Project Equipment and Consultancy Services Costs
Appendix 6-3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7.   Present and Proposed Interest Rates for Project Institutions
8.   Farm Incomes and Financial Rates of Return on Investments
Appendix 8-1 - Farm Models: Financial
Appendix 8-2 - Financial Rates of Return by Type of Investment
Appendix 8-3 - Estimated Increases in Cropped Area and Production
9.   Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 9-1 - Farm Models: Economic
Appendix 9-2 - Economic Rates of Return by Type of Investment
10. Comparison of Alternate Transport Means for Sugarcane
Appendix 10-1- Net Present Worth of Cost Streams for Transport
Alternatives
MAP






INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural credit project in the State
of Maharashtra for which an IDA credit of US$30 million is proposed. It
would support a three-year lending program, primarily for investments in
minor irrigation but also for land development, and would assist in financing
equipment required for project implementation and consultancy services.
ii.       Maharashtra is emphasizing agricultural development and is giving
special attention to increasing production through the expansion of irri-
gation facilities and the use of high-yielding varieties and fertilizers.
Since the possibilities for the construction of additional large surface water
irrigation schemes are limited, efforts will be centered on the development
of smaller units such as wells and lift schemes, and on land development
operations (levelling, grading, etc.) to permit the more efficient use of
water from existing surface schemes. Maharashtra's groundwater resources
are generally adequate to sustain a further program of exploitation, but it
would have to be accompanied by new techniques of analysis and appraisal by the
State Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency (GSDA) and the banking
system in order to arrest the overinvestment and overexploitation which have
already occurred in some areas. Consultancy services would be included in
the Project to assist GSDA in fulfilling its role. Until such time as
Maharashtra has introduced comprehensive groundwater legislation, now under
consideration, control over development will rest with the lending program
and with administrative actions undertaken by the State.
iii.      The Project would assist in financing farm investments, Project
equipment, and consultancy services estimated to cost US$51.9 million
equivalent: US$41.5 million for minor irrigation, US$4.8 million for land
development, US$5.3 million for Project equipment (well-drilling, earth-
moving and hydrological equipment), and US$0.3 million for consultancy
services. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$9.2 million
equivalent or about 18% of total Project cost. IDA would finance US$30 million
equivalent, representing the foreign exchange component and about one-half
of the local currency costs.
iv.       Farmers' contributions, in the case of loans from the Maharashtra
State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB), would be 10% of the cost of
individual investments, with the exception of small farmers as defined, who
would not be required to make a downpayment for special minor irrigation
investments. However, in addition to the investment contribution, farmers
would make a share contribution to LDB capital equal to 10% of their loans.
In the case of loans from commercial banks, farmers' contributions normally
would be 20% of the cost of individual investments, but 10% for small farmers.
The IDA credit would cover 58% of total Project cost. The remainder of the
financing would be provided by the LDB, participating commercial banks, and
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC). ARC would be the channel for



- ii -
IDA finance. ARC is already acting in this capacity for IDA-supported
agricultural credit projects in six other States of India. 1/ It would also
be responsible for supervising Project operations.
v.        Because of a serious overdue position faced by the Primary Banks,
:Lnclusion of the LDB system in the Project, and thus implementation of the
Project, would depend on a financial and managerial rehabilitation of the
Primaries according to a program agreed upon during negotiations. This
program is expected to be completed by September 30, 1972, the proposed date
of credit effectiveness.
vri.      The portion of the IDA credit corresponding to the lending program
would be made available to ARC by the Government of India (GOI) with the
:Latter bearing the exchange risk. About 70% would be repayable by ARC to
(OI after 9 years at an interest rate of 5-1/4% and the balance after 15
rears at 5-3/4% per annum. ARC would refinance at 6-1/2% per annum the
lending operations of LDB and such participating commercial banks as would
meet the criteria laid down by ARC. Loans to individual borrowers would
bear interest per annum and would be repayable over periods up to 10 years,
iLncluding two years of grace for land development loans, but extending in
some cases to 15 years for small farmers as defined.
vii.      Implementation would be by local contractors or hired labor in
t:he case of minor irrigation schemes, and by the State Land Development
Agency (LDA), assisted by local contractors, in the case of land development
fschemes, utilizing local materials. About 45,000 individual small and widely-
iscattered farm investments would be made, and international competition
therefore would not be appropriate. Drilling rigs, earth-moving equipment
aLnd hydrological equipment would be procured under international competition
with Indian manufacturers receiving a preference of 15% or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower.
viii.     ARC is competently managed and financially sound, and would,
t:ogether with LDB (assuming the Primary Banks are rehabilitated as indicated
in para v) and the commercial banks, provide a good framework for Project
lending.  Financial returns to farmers are estimated at 40% to 73%. The
rates of return to the economy are estimated at 33% to 55% for minor irri-
gation and 39% for land development.
ix.       Apart from difficulties which may be encountered in gaining farmers'
scceptance and use of unproved production practices (including a full use
of irrigation water), the principal issue affecting the soundness of the
E'roject is that of the financial and managerial capabilities of the Primary
Banks.  As in the case of the recently approved Mysore agricultural credit
project, the weaknesses of the banking system in Maharashtra present greater
risks than those encountered in the earlier credit projects. Providing,
bLowever, the rehabilitation program can be carried through sucessfully and
aL satisfactory collection record maintained in future, the Project would
1! Gujarat, Punjab, Anadhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Mysore.



- iii -
have made an important contribution to institutional development in India
using procedures which could later be followed in other states where
similar banking difficulties are expected. The undertakings received on
the rehabilitation program indicate that the Project can be fully implemented
and with these and other assurances, the Project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$30 million.






INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1968, an IDA mission, with assistance of the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program, reviewed agricultural credit institutions and farm
investment requirements in selected parts of India and identified high
priority agricultural credit projects. Projects in the six states of
Gujarat, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, and Mysore already
have been approved by IDA: this proposed Project for Maharashtra would be
the seventh. Institutional credit, partly financed by IDA, would enable
farmers to make investments in minor irrigation and land development and thus
obtain increased production and other benefits from the new high-yielding
seed varieties, fertilizer use, and surface water irrigation schemes.
1.02      Bank Group lending for India's agricultural sector (excluding US$23
million for the Beas equipment project under the Indus Treaty) totals US$392
million. While previous lending has concentrated on large irrigation schemes,
the current series of credit projects supports the Government of India's
(GOI) agricultural strategy of giving increased emphasis to farm investments.
With the inclusion of this Project, credit project approvals would total
nearly US$217 million.
1.03      The Project is based on a proposal by the Maharashtra Government
and follows the pattern of previous agricultural credit projects in India.
It was appraised in March/April 1971 by Messrs. C.H. Walton, G. Luhman and
P.K. Pohland (IDA), and D.I. Allen and J-M Daniel (consultants), and this
report is based on the mission's findings. The mission could not however
justify the proposal for inclusion in the project of 1,000 tractors for
utilization on sugar cooperatives.
II. BACKGROUND
I/
A. INDIA-/
2.01      Since 1965, India has shifted the emphasis of its development
efforts from industry to agriculture. As a result, priority has been given
in recent years to accelerating the introduction of modern agricultural
technology through increasing the availability of improved inputs such as
high-yielding seed varieties and fertilizers, particularly in combination
with irrigation, and by providing financial incentives to farmers.
2.02      Although 70% of India's labor force is engaged in agriculture
(providing half of India's GDP), only a small proportion of farmers have
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agri-
culture in India is given in "Economic Situation and Prospects of India",
report number SA-25a of May 11, 1971.



- 2 -
benefited from the recent agricultural advance: primarily those with
access to irrigation and to the knowledge and capital necessary to adopt
modern technology. However, a large number of additional farmers could
take advantage of the new techniques if credit were made available to them.
Thus an increased supply of credit for farm investment is important to the
continued growth of agricultural production.
2.03      The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) estimates that credit institu-
tions will require Rs 15,000 million (US$2,100 million) for agricultural
investment during the Fourth Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74), or an annual
average of Rs 3,000 million, compared with about Rs 600 million invested in
the crop year 1966/67. The short-term credit requirements would increase
by an estimated 11% annually, rising to about Rs 20,000 million (US$2,700
million) by 1973/74. Overall agricultural credit requirements. are expected
to increase five-fold from the mid-60's to the end of the Plan period. If
these substantial credit demands are to be met, India will neAdvto mobilize
more of its own, particularly rural, savings and increase external bor-
rowings.
B. The State of Maharashtra
General Description
2.04      Maharashtra borders the Arabian Sea in the central part of
India's West Coast and has its capital at Bombay (see Map). It is the
third largest state in the country with an area of about 306,000 km2 and
an estimated population (1971) of about 53 million (each about 10% of the
total for India).  Approximately 72% of the population depend on agricul-
ture for their living, and this sector provides 39% of the State's income.
Administratively, the State is divided into 26 districts which are sub-
divided into 231 taluks.
2.05      The State has two main geographical regions:  the coastal plain,
about 50 km wide, which extends to the Western Ghats in the east, and the
Deccan Plateau which has a mean altitude of 550 m and covers the remainder
of the State to the east of the Western Ghats. The coastal plain contains
mainly tropical red soils and receives an average annual rainfall of about
2,500 mm while the Deccan Plateau is composed primarily of black soils on
volcanic rock formations, and has an annual rainfall which varies from about
700 mm in the west to over 1,200 mm in the east. The Deccan Plateau contains
:wo major river basins, the Tapi and Godavari, the former draining to the
west and the latter to the east. There are three seasons: the dry season,
or early kharif, from March to May; the southwest monsoon, or kharif, from
June to October; and the northeast monsoon, or rabi, from November to
February. About two-thirds of the total rainfall occurs during the south-
west monsoon.  Temperatures vary from a low of 8C in December to 45C in
May.
ALgricultural Structure
2.06      The net sown area is about 18.3 million ha (59% of total area)
mnd, with an average cropping intensity of 105%, gross sown area is about



19.2 million ha. An additional 4.6 million ha (15% of total area) is
classified as pasture, fallow, or cultivable wasteland. About 1.2 million
ha (6% of cultivable area) is irrigated, primarily by wells (58%) and partly
by canals (21%), tanks 1/ (17%) and lift irrigation schemes (4%).
2.07      Approximately 48% of holdings in Maharashtra are smaller than 2 ha
(8% of total farmland), 23% are between 2 and 6 ha (23% of farmland), and
the remaining 29% are larger than 6 ha (69% of farmland). Operational hold-
ings are often larger than these statistics would imply, since land ownership
is often divided among several members of the same family and farmed as one
unit. This process has also limited the effectiveness of ceilings on
individual land ownership.
2.08      Foodgrains account for about 67% of gross sown area, while 18% is
under oil seeds, 14% is under cotton, and the rest (1%) is under other com-
mercial and subsistence crops. Sorghum is the most important single crop
with 30% of gross sown area. The other foodgrains include millet (10% of
gross sown area), rice (7%), wheat (5%), and various pulses (15%). Current
production (1968/69 figures) is as follows: foodgrains 7.0 million tons,
oil seeds (mainly groundnuts) 735,000 tons, cotton 243,000 tons, and sugar
cane 12.6 million tons.
Agricultural Development Priorities
Introduction
2.09      The primary objectives of the State in the agricultural sector
are to contribute to India's attainment of self-sufficiency in foodgrains
and to expand the production of commercial crops. Since possibilities for
extending the area under cultivation are limited, further increases in
production will have to be achieved through improvements in land produc-
tivity involving additional irrigation facilities and the introduction of
increased amounts of improved current inputs, more efficient farm management,
and improved implements. Since the scope for the development of additional
large surface water schemes is limited, emphasis is being placed on minor
irrigation and on land development (to permit more efficient use of water
currently available from surface schemes). Special attention is being
given to small farmers, particularly with regard to assisting them in
utilizing the benefits of the new technology.
Minor Irrigation (Annex 1)
2.10      Water availability in Maharashtra will enable only about 30% of
total cultivable area to be irrigated at ultimate development. However,
with present irrigated area about 6% of cultivable area, the scope for further
development is substantial. Wells, presently the major source of irrigation
water, have accounted for about 80% of the increase in irrigated area over
the past 15 years. They now number approximately 750,000, about 35% of which
are supplied with electric or diesel pumpsets. Almost all the wells are
dugwells, although a few tubewells are found in the Tapi/Purna basin to the
north.
1/   Small reservoirs.



-4-
2.11      While global water availability is adequate to support substantial
iurther irrigation development, overinvestment and overexploitation in
localized areas has resulted from an absence of controls over groundwater
development and a lack of appropriate water management. Model groundwater
legislation has been prepared by the Government of India (GOI) and is
uinder consideration in several states, including Maharashtra, but until
this legislation is promulgated, control will have to depend on lending
criteria of the banking system and administrative actions by the State
Government. Under the Project, new methods of investment appraisal would
bye introduced which would be based on an analysis of hydrogeological units
from river basins down to elementary watersheds, involving an investigation
of total water inflow, present utilization, and availability for future
dlevelopment (para 3.03). The analysis would be undertaken by the Groundwater
Surveys and Development Agency (GSDA) which would establish regulations for
minor irrigation development according to the criteria set forth in the
Project and would participate in the appraisal of investment schemes. The
State is in the process of establishing GSDA within the Department of Indus-
tries. It will comprise a nucleus of competent groundwater staff from the
Diepartment of Agriculture, but additional staff appointments and specialist
consultancy services would be required (para 3.07).
2.12      The appraisal criteria would include a minimum distance between
wells and a maximum density of wells per hydrogeological unit (Schedule A)
in order to guard against overexploitation and the related problem of over-
investment, particularly in dugwells, which has resulted in large part from
the prevalence of small farms and the unwillingness of farmers to rely on
watersharing arrangements. It is estimated that the existing dugwells would
be sufficient, given the appropriate technical and managerial framework, to
irrigate twice the present area (Annex 1) and despite the constraints, the
State Government should give increased attention to the better use of these
existing assets. In order to encourage an efficient use of capital, the
lending criteria would stipulate a minimum irrigated area per well (Schedule
A).
2.13      Well construction is carried out primarily by hired labor or
private contractors, and partly by GSDA. Prices are reasonable and imple-
mentation capacity is generally adequate for present requirements, but
additional units would be needed to carry out the Project (para 3.04).
Land Development (Annex 2)
2.14      Land development (involving levelling, grading, ditching, and
bunding) to permit the efficient utilization of irrigation water traditionally
was carried out by family labor. However, with the construction of several
large surface water schemes in recent years commanding a total of 243,000
ha, the magnitude of the work involved and the necessity of completing land
dievelopment quickly to obtain maximum benefit from available irrigation
water necessitated different methods of implementation and the provision
of financing for farmers. Operations presently are carried out by hired
liabor, sometimes assisted by bullocks, or by earth-moving equipment.
Nevertheless, Maharashtra has had great difficulty mobilizing sufficient
labor to perform this type of work in rural areas, and it does not have



-5-
adequate earth-moving equipment. As a result, land development remains to
be completed on most of the area recently brought under command of large
surface water schemes, and substantial inputs of machinery will be necessary
if the work is to be finished expeditiously (para 3.06).
2.15      Because of the nature and conditions of land development work in
Maharashtra, the State is establishing a Land Development Agency (LDA) within
the Department of Agriculture to carry out the program with the assistance of
local contractors (para 4.21). LDA will take over the Department of Agricul-
ture staff now working on land development, but additional staff and specialist
assistance would be needed (para 4.22). Since no comprehensive schedule of
land development charges exists at present, the State would establish rates
sufficient to cover all costs (para 4.23). The program of land development
carried on outside the Project would be modified to conform to the procedures
and terms in effect under this Project (para 4.23).
Mechanization
2.16      As in the case of the other Indian states, tractor mechanization
has begun in Maharashtra. Nevertheless, with irrigated area a small pro-
portion of cultivable area (para 2.10), the tractor fleet now operating is
only about 5,000 units. Future demand is estimated at approximately 2,000-
3,000 per annum and is expected to be met by Maharashtra's share of domestic
production and imports under bilateral arrangements.
2.17      In addition to their use for general cultivation purposes,
tractors are also utilized in the sugar industry, and the project proposal
submitted by Maharashtra included a request for 1,000 tractors to be
employed on sugar cooperatives, primarily for haulage of sugar cane and
secondarily for tillage. However, the harvesting and crushing season for
sugarcane covers most of the periods during which the tractors could be used
for tillage, and therefore the benefits to be expected from this activity
are minimal. With respect to their use for haulage, tractors were found
to be less efficient than trucks over the distances involved and consequently
were deleted from the Project (Annex 10).
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.18      The growth rate of agriculture projected under the State's Fourth
Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74) is 5% per annum, and about 38% of planned public
expenditures (Rs 3,750 million) have been allocated to this sector. As of
1965/66, improved seeds were utilized on about 15% of the gross sown area.
By 1968/69, this figure had increased to 33%, and it is expected to reach
52% in 1973/74. Consumption of nitrogenous fertilizers increased from about
3 kg/ha per gross sown ha in 1965/66 to approximately 10 kg/ha in 1968/69
and is expected to reach about 18 kg/ha in 1973/74. Use of phosphatic and
potassic fertilizers is expected to increase correspondingly.
Credit Services
2.19      The major portion of institutional agricultural credit is pro-
vided by the cooperative movement. The State Cooperative Bank provides mainly



short-term loans, while LDB provides medium- and long-term financing. Com-
mercial banks, which lend on terms up to 5 years, have played a limited
role to date in agriculture but are now increasing their operations with
the encouragement of the Government.
2.20      Perhaps two thirds of the farmers' credit requirements are met by
private money lenders who charge rates of 20% and more (in comparison with
about 9% from institutions). These figures suggest that institutions must
make increased efforts to attract a larger proportion of rural savings.
'Until they are able to make substantial progress in this direction, coopera-
tive institutions, in particular, will continue to depend heavily on public
sector and external financing.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The Project would be part of a lending program of the Land
Development Bank (LDB) system and commercial banks in Maharashtra and, over a
period of three years, would help finance farmers' investments in minor
irrigation (87% of total farmers' investment) and land development (13%).
It would also include the financing of some equipment required for project
execution and consultancy services for GSDA. The investment program would be
Lmplemented through the Maaharashtra banking system under refinance arrange-
ments with ARC and would involve about 45,000 loans to farmers and coopera-
itives. The total Project cost is estimated at Rs 377.6 (US$51.9 million),
and IDA's contribution would be US$30.0 million.
B. Detailed Features
Minor Irrigation
3.02      Investments in minor irrigation would include the following:
(a) About 300 tubewells, at a cost of Rs 18 million (US$2.5
million), in specifically defined areas of five districts
and approximately 175 lift irrigation schemes, at a cost
of Rs 84 million (US$11.5 million), on major rivers
throughout the State (Annex 1). The tubewells would
irrigate about 6,000 ha while the lift schemes would
supply about 40,000 ha. Since the lift irrigation
schemes would involve substantial individual investments,
any scheme having an investment cost greater than Rs 2,000,000
(about five) would be submitted to IDA for prior approval
(Schedule A).
(b) A sum of Rs 200 million (US$27.5 million) for dugwells,
dugwell improvements, and electrification in major river
basins encompassing 17 districts on the Deccan Plateau
(Annex 1), resulting in the irrigation of about 60,000 ha.
While the sum represents the estimated total cost of such



-7-
investments likely to be justified in these areas (it
would finance the equivalent of about 11,000 new energized
dugwells), present information is inadequate to quantify
accurately the respective numbers of each type of invest-
ment. Identification of specific investments would thus
depend on individual field appraisals. Assurances were
obtained that the State Electricity Board would give priority
to the electrification of these wells, and the cost estimates
include a provision of Rs 2,500 for the connection.
3.03      Since Maharashtra does not yet have legislation controlling ground-
water development (para 2.11), it is essential that the State undertake
pragmatic measures to combat the problems of overexploitation and over-
capitalization. As a large portion of minor irrigation development is
financed through institutional loans, minimum standards can be introduced
through specific lending criteria implemented through the banking system
and supported by the State. The basis would be by GSDA analysis of integral
hydrogeological units from river basins down to elementary watersheds
(para 2.11). Included would be requirements with regard to density,
spacing and irrigated area, which would permit investment in minor irri-
gation to proceed under reasonable control until such time as effective
legislation were passed (Schedule A). Furthermore, the efficiency of
individual investments would be increased through this analysis and through
improved financial appraisal (para 4.11).
3.04      To complete the proposed program within a three-year period,
additional drilling units would be required. Provision has, therefore,
been made in the Project for 4 hammer drills with initial spare parts at
a cost of Rs 3.6 million (US$0.5 million). They would be purchased by
the State Government or its agency.
Land Development
3.05      Investments in land development would involve levelling of
about 9,000 ha, grading 1/ of 24,000 ha, bunding of 47,000 ha, and con-
struction of water courses and field drains on 115,000 ha, 2/ on six major
irrigation schemes: Purna 3/, Bor, Ghod, Nalganga, Gangapur, and Girna
(Annex 2). The total cost would be Rs 46.1 million (US$6.3 million).
3.06      Work is presently performed by manual labor, bullocks and some
bulldozers, but the shortage of labor and equipment result in a very slow
1/   Removal of uneven features without altering the basic slope of the land.
2/   Since all activities are not carried out on every unit of land to be
developed, it is not possible to quote total figures for land develop-
ment.
3/   Purna Irrigation Project, Credit 23-IN.  This Purna River is a tributary
of the Godavari, not the tributary of the Tapi by the same name which
is included in the proposed Project area for tubewells.



mnd haphazard development (para 2.14 and Annex 2). In order to accomplish
t:he land development program efficiently and expeditiously, the Project
provides for the purchase of 48 self-loading scrapers, 20 land planes, and
20 bulldozers for use in bunding, at a cost of Rs 34 million (US$4.7 million).
]:nitial spare parts would be included. All equipment would be purchased by
the State Government or its agency.
C:onsultancy Services
Groundwater
3.07      The effective implementation of minor irrigation investments
both within the Project and outside of it, will depend in large measure
on the capability of GSDA to gather and analyze pertinent data, and to
provide guidance to LDB regarding constraints imposed by water avail-
ability on minor irrigation development. In order to assist with the
implementation of water availability investigations and the application of
appraisal criteria, the Project would include provision for the services
of two qualified and experienced consultants over two years, at a cost of
Rs 2.3 million (US$0.3 million). The consultants would comprise a hydro-
logist and a specialist in water management. It was agreed during negotiations
that these specialists would be appointed in consultation with IDA on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, as a condition of credit effectiveness
(para 3.13).
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.08      Estimated Project cost, together with the foreign exchange require-
ment, is detailed as follows:
Rs (millions)            US$ (millions)      Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
1.  Minor Irrigation   272.0   30.0   302.0    37.4    4.1        41.5     10
/1
2.  Land Development-  31.3    3.5    34.8        4.3    0.5       4.8     10
3. Project Equipment
(a) Drilling Rigs       0.6    3.0      3.6      0.1    0.4      0.5      83
'(b) Earth-moving
Machinery            5.7   28.3    34.0      0.8    3.9       4.7     83
(c) Hydrological
Equipment            0.1    0.8     0.9      0.0    0.1       0.1     89
4. Consultancy Services  0.8    1.5       2.3     0.1    0.2       0.3     65
Total Project Cost  310.5   67.1   377.6    42.7    9.2        51.9     18
/11  Excludes depreciation on earth-moving machinery since total cost of
machinery is included in Project cost.
Details of the cost estimates are shown in Appendices 6-1 and 6-2. Estimates
are based on present prices including a 10% allowance for cost increases.



- 9 -
3.09      The total cost of Rs 377.6 million (US$51.9 million) would be
financed from the following sources:
Lending/i          /2       Total        IDA
Farmers         Banks          ARC--    Financed  Credit Funds
% of           X of           % of                      % of
Rs M   Total   Rs M  Total   Rs M  Total    Rs M    Rs M   Total
1. Minor               /3/4
Irrigation 27.2    9/       27.5   9    247.3   82       302.0  165.0      55
2. Land De-            /3
velopment   4.6    O--    10.4  23        31.1   67       46.1k- 19.8      43
Total Lending
Program       31.8    9       37.9  11    278.4   80       348.1  184.8      53
3. Project
Equipment
(a) Drilling                                        /6
Rigs                                   3.6  100 -       3.6    3.0      83
(b) Earth-
moving                                          /6
Machinery -      -       -    -       34.0  100--    34.0   28.3        83
(c) Hydrological                                    /6
Equipment -      -       -    -        0.9  1004-       0.9    0.8      89
4. Consultancy                                       /7
Services    -                             2.3  l300       2.3    1.5      65
Total Fi-
nanced        31.8    8       37.9  10    319.2   82       388.9  218.4      56
Depreciation
on Earth-moving
Machinery                                                  (11.3)
Total PProject
Cost                                                       377.6  218.4      58
/1   In the case of LDB, financed by the State Government.
/2   All items relate to ARC except as indicated.
/3   In addition, farmers are required to make an equity contribution to
the LDB system of 10% of the loan.
/4   Takes into consideration the lower contribution required from small
farmers in certain investments (para 4.13).
/5   Includes depreciation on earth-moving machinery as a cost to the
farmer. The IDA contribution represents 57% of Project cost but only
43% of total cost of this item.
/6   For purchase by State Government.
/7   GOI.



- 10 -
3.10      The proposed IDA credit of US$30.0 million (Rs 218.4 million)
would finance about 58% of total Project cost and its refinance of the
lending program (Rs 184.8 million) would supply about 66% of ARC support
of the Project (Rs 278.4 million). IDA financing would be based on (a)
the foreign exchange cost of Project equipment and consultancy services and
(b) the foreign exchange cost plus one-half the local cost of minor irrigation
tnd land development investments. IDA financing of foreign exchange items
would amount to Rs 67.1 million (US$9.2 million) or 31% of its total contri-
bution while local currency financing would total Rs 151.3 million (US$20.8
million).
3.11      The IDA credit would be on standard terms to GOI.  GOI would make
the proceeds relating to the lending program available to ARC on the basis
of repayment at the end of 9 years with an interest rate of 5-1/4% per annum
in the case of loans to ultimate borrowers not exceeding this period
(estimated at about 707 of the total) and at the end of 15 years with in-
terest gt 5-3/4% per annum in the case of the longer maturities (in each
case this is after deducting 1/4% allowable for prompt payment). These are
the rates which since June 1971 have applied to GOI lending to ARC. GOI
wrould bear the exchange risk. ARC would on-lend the proceeds to LDB and
participating commercial banks (para 4.01) at an interest rate of 6-1/2% per
annum on the outstanding balance, and these banks would in turn on-lend to
ultimate borrowers at 9%. ARC refinancing would be repayable in installments
set to coincide approximately with collections from ultimate borrowers. The
balance of the IDA credit, f-or Project equipment and consultancy services,
would be made available by GOI to the Maharashtra State Government. Assur-
ances on these arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
D. Procurement
3.12      Minor irrigation and land development investments involve generally
small and labor intensive operations carried out seasonally on widely
scattered individual farms, for which international competition would not be
a.ppropriate. They would be carried out primarily by hired labor or local
contractors and partly by GSDA, in the case of minor irrigation and by LDA
with the assistance of local contractors, in the case of land development,
using local materials. Competition among contractors is satisfactory and
supplies are adequate. For tubewells and lift irrigation schemes, local
competition would be adopted, while for dugwells, arrangements by individual
farmers with the advice of the Primary banks would be the rule.
3.13      The drilling rigs and earth-moving equipment included in the
Project would enable Government agencies providing well drilling and land
development services to reach the capacity necessary to execute the amount
of work envisaged. Some drilling and earth-moving equipment is manufactured
in India and it was agreed that such procurement would be under international
competition with Indian suppliers receiving a preference of 15% or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Bits for hammer drills and
hydrological equipment would also be procured under international competition.
Because of the rapid expansion of groundwater programs which has absorbed
considerable manpower and the resultant shortage of groundwater specialists
in the co2lntry, the consultants for GSDA would have to come from outside India.



- 11 -
E. Disbursements
3.14      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over about 3-1/2 years
(Appendix 6-3). Against appropriate documentation, disbursements would be
60% of loans for minor irrigation and 48% of loans for land development,
the CIF cost of drilling and earth-moving machinery, and the foreign exchange
cost of consultancy services. Any savings would be reallocated only on the
basis of agreement between the Government and IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Introduction
4.01      Financing and organization arrangements would generally follow
the pattern established under five existing IDA-supported agricultural credit
projects. The IDA credit to the Government of India (GOI) would, in respect
of the lending program, be channelled to the Agricultural Refinance Corpora-
tion (ARC) which would refinance part of the lending to ultimate borrowers
of the Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) and its
federated Primary Banks, and of participating commercial banks. At present,
most of the Primaries which would be involved in the project have financial
difficulties and some are encumbered with managerial problems. To rectify
this situation, the State Government and LDB in consultation with ARC are
now implementing a rehabilitation program acceptable to IDA and it is
expected that this program will be completed by September 30, 1972, the date
proposed for credit effectiveness (para 4.10).
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) (Annex 3)
4.02      ARC, a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), is the
channel for the five existing agricultural credit projects and is therefore
well known to IDA. It is a competently-managed organization with a sound
financial structure, and its role is important not only as a channel for
development funds but also for its influence on the lending policies and
operational procedures of the agencies it assists. It is therefore a suitable
institution for the overall supervision of the Project's implementation. As
in previous credits, assurance was obtained that ARC's accounts would con-
tinue to be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA.
4.03      ARC would ensure that all lending banks follow the policies, terms
and conditions agreed with IDA (Schedule B). The execution of a loan agree-
ment between GOI and ARC on such terms and conditions would be a condition
of credit effectiveness and subsidiary loan agreements between ARC and lending
banks would be subject to IDA approval. ARC would further ensure that lend-
ing banks adhered to the appraisal criteria relating to minor irrigation as
set forth in Schedule A. Assurances on these matters were obtained at
negotiations.



- 12 -
Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) (Annex 4)
4.04      Organization and Management.  The LDB was registered in December
11935 and, until the post-independence boundary revisions, its operations also
covered parts of the present States of GuJarat and Mysore. With its four
divisional offices, LDB is the apex organization for 26 federated Primary
flanks which are organized on a district basis. The Primary Banks in turn work
through a total of 252 branches. Since LDB is the sole source of long-term
financing for the Primary Banks, the relationship is similar to that of a
bank head office to its branches.
4.05      LDB 's operations are regulated by the Maharashtra Cooperative
Societies Act 1960. Its 30-member Board includes 20 representatives of the
Primary Banks, 5 representatives of non-borrowing shareholders, and 5 mem-
bers ex-officio, including LDBts Managing Director (at present on secondment
from RBI). The Primary Banks, with a voting membership of about 750,000,
also elect their own boards which control operations and appoint staff. In
order to borrow, a farmer must hold shares in his Primary equal to 10% of
the loan; this is the largest equity requirement of any land mortgage/devel-
opment bank in India. The Primaries retain one-half of the equity contri-
bution and invest the balance in LDB so that their equity holding in the
apex bank is 5% of their borrowings therefrom. Loans, which may be granted
for most medium- and long-term investments in agriculture, at present may
not exceed 50% of the developed value of land required as security. This
criterion could be an unreasonable constraint in the case of farmers with
small landholdings, and an assurance was obtained during negotiations
that the limit would be increased to 60% of the developed value of land.
4.06      Resources.  LDB obtains its resources from share capital con-
tributed by the Primary Banks and State Government, the issue of ordinary,
rural and special debentures and short-term borrowings from the Maharashtra
State Cooperative Bank. As of June 30, 1971 paid-up share capital was Rs 89
million of which the members' contribution was Rs 78 million (88%) and the
Sitate Government's contribution Rs 11 million (12%). Ordinary debentures
(subscribed mainly by RBI, the State Government and other institutions)
outstanding at this date were Rs 1,320 million, rural debentures (subscribed
by farmers and RBI in the ratio of 8 to 9) were Rs 44 million and special
debentures (subscribed by ARC) were Rs 85 million. The relatively small amount
oil special debentures is indicative of the limited influence which ARC
hitherto has exercised on LDB policies.
4.07      Operational Results.  LDB has maintained an exceptionally high
growth rate over recent years, its loan portfolio more than doubling (from
Rs 563 million to Rs 1,156 million) over the four years from June 30, 1967
to June 30, 1971. It now has the largest portfolio of any land mortgage/
development bank in India. LDB is a generally sound institution, although
profits have been low compared with similar banks in other States. Its
primary weakness, however, has been in the inadequate control it has
exercised over the Primary Banks.
4.08      The most serious aspect of the LDB system in Maharashtra is the
continuing high level of overdues. As of June 30, 1971, farmers' arrears to



- 13 -
Primary Banks at Rs 136 million represented about 53% of the total amounts
due, and of the 21 Primary Banks which would be involved in Project lending,
only 1 had overdues of 25% or less (Appendix 4-1). Arrears to Primaries had
decreased from a high of 62% in 1961/62 to 24% in 1968/69 but then inlcreased
again to 30% in 1969/70. In 1970/71, however, they jumped markedly to 53%,
a situation partly attributable to the extensive drought conditions prevail-
ing in the State during that year. Because the Primaries have substantial
resources as a result of the retention of half the farmers' equity contri-
butions (para 4.05), their repayment record to LDB had been maintained at a
higher level: as of June 30, 1970 arrears were 9% of payments due (having
dropped back from 7% the previous year) and amounted to Rs 14.6 million (LDB
reserves at that date were Rs 13.2 million). However, the crop losses in
1970/71 had important repercussions at the apex also, and the arrears at
June 30, 1971 were 34% of total amounts due.
4.09      The unsatisfactory condition of the Primaries, which was made
critical by the extraordinary weather conditions of 1970/71, resulted from
a variety of factors including weak management (in some cases); loan ceilings
which often led to the underfinancing of investments; inadequate technical
criteria which resulted in investments in underproductive wells; financial
analysis based on total, rather than incremental, returns; insufficient
emphasis on collections; and the granting of loans on the basis of political,
instead of technical, financial, and economic considerations.
4.10      Rehabilitation of the LDB System.  In order to provide the LDB
system with a sound structure adequate to administer the Project and channel
IDA funds, the State Government and LDB in consultation with ARC are imple-
menting a financial and managerial rehabilitation program, satisfactory to
IDA. The principal features of the program are as follows:
(a) Financial Rehabilitation
The main purpose is to reduce overdues to not more than
25% of the June 30, 1971 demand after deducting overdues
attributable to drought. To this end the State Government
has agreed to contribute capital to all 21 Project Primary
Banks to the extent necessary to meet this criterion as at
June 30, 1972. In addition, however, the 25% maximum over-
due position must also be met against the current year's
demand and the State Government will similarly contribute
capital to the extent necessary that at least 15 of these
Primaries qualify (including specifically the Jalgaon,
Nanded and Parbhani Banks through which much of the Project
lending will be concentrated). Based on the June 1971
overdues, the State Government's contribution is estimated
at Rs 34 million (US$4.7 million) and in addition it will
provide guarantees of Rs 21 million (US$2.9 million) to
cover half the amount of drought overdues (Appendix 4-1).
The capital contributions will be redeemed and the guarantees
reduced as recoveries are made.



- 14 -
(b)  Collection Program
With the cooperation of the State Government including the
provision of additional recoveries staff and improved fore-
closure procedures, the LDB system has started a collection
campaign to recover past overdues in accordance with
scheduled timetables (Appendix 4-2) and ensure satisfactory
repayment levels in future. ARC will review the recovery
performance of each Primary and, subject to IDA agreement,
will withhold Project refinance from any Primary which fails
to make satisfactory progress on recovering amounts overdue
on June 30, 1971 or which incurs a default rate of more than
25% of payments becoming due in any subsequent year.
(c)  Managerial Rehabilitation
Where necessary, boards of directors would be reconstituted
and management would be replaced in Primaries according to
a plan to be sent to the Association by April 30, 1972. LDB
would employ all managers and, as appropriate, other staff
of Primaries. Training courses are being established for
managers and staff of the LDB system to introduce new appraisal
and lending techniques. Those for senior executives of LDB
and key officers of the Primaries would be completed by the
date of credit effectiveness.
The above measures, which were agreed at negotiations are expected to result
in a satisfactory rehabilitation of the LDB system by September 30, 1972, the
proposed date of credit effectiveness. By that date all 21 of the Project
Primaries would in effect have had their overdues reduced to acceptable
levels and the proposed capital injections would have enabled thiem to reduce
the amount of their overdues to the apex bank to not more than 19%. Improved
collection methods described above should have resulted in all the 21 Pri-
maries meeting the 25% criterion on current year's demand without further
capital contributions from the State Government. However, in the event of
only the minimum of 15 Banks qualifying, there would be sufficient banking
facilities to permit the Project to proceed and with good prospects of
tlne remaining Banks participating soon thereafter. The completion of the
riehabilitation program as outlined above would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
4.11      Lending Policies and Terms.  Investments would be evaluated in
terms of incremental returns in accordance with methods developed by ARC,
and loans would conform to the agreed appraisal criteria and terms as set
oult in Schedule B. Minor irrigation investments would, in addition, conform
to the technical criteria and areas specified in Schedule A. Assurances on
these matters were obtained at negotiations.
4.12      The primary modifications in lending terms (Schedule B) which would
be introduced under the Project involve interest rates, contributions from
borrowers, and loan maturities. With respect to the first, the rate from
LDB to the Primaries would be increased from 7-1/4% to 7-1/2%, raising LDB's



- 15 -
margin on ARC approved schemes from 3/4% to 1% and decreasing the margin of
the Primaries from 1-3/4% to 1-1/2%. This change is justified in view of
the need for LDB to meet the cost of increasing staff requirements and the
high margin of the Primaries in relation to their costs. The Primaries
would retain the proceeds of the 1/2% evaluation fee to be charged on the
cost of individual investments.
4.13      The contributions required from Borrowers and the maturities of
loans would be set as follows:
Minimum
Borrowers /1
Maximum              Contribution/-
Grace            years of              (% of Cost of
Investment           Period            Repayment   Total    Investment)
/2
Minor Irrigation            -                 9            9            10
Land Development            2                 8           10            10
/1   Inncludes value of farmers' own labor.  In addition, farmers would
make a contribution to LDB capital equal to 10% of the loan.
/2   Repayment would commence in year following completion of construction.
The maturity for minor irrigation, especially in the case of dugwells,
represents some reduction over existing maturities but 9 years is well with-
in the repayment capacity of borrowers, provided the investments conform
to proper technical criteria. To help meet the needs of small farmers, defined
in Schedule B, no investment contribution would be required (although farmers
would still make the contribution to LDB capital equal to 10% of the loan),
and repayment periods would be extended to 15 years for minor irrigation
investments costing less than Rs 10,000 (except in the case of pumpsets where
repayment periods would not exceed 7 years). Repayment periods also would
be extended to 15 years including two years grace for land development
investments (Schedule B). Assurances were obtained on the above at nego-
tiations and it was agreed that, except for schemes submitted under the aegis
of the Small Farmers Development Agency, LDB and the Primary Banks would
apply the same contribution and maturity requirements to all their similar
lending operations, and the same interest rates, evaluation fee, and
collateral requirements to all their lending operations.
4.14      Accounts and Auditing.  The LDB accounting system is adequate and,
in accordance with the usual Indian practice, the accounts are audited by
independent auditors from the State Cooperative Department. Assurances
were obtained that the accounts of LDB would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and would be submitted to IDA within 4 months
of the close of the fiscal year.
Commercial Banks (Annex 5)
4.15      There are 50 commercial banks operating in Maharashtra, of which
21 are nationalized. Together they provide nearly 1,350 branches, the most
important banks being the State Bank of India (221 branches), the Bank of
Maharashtra (179 branches) and the Central Bank of India (105 branches).



- 16 -
f.        The comnercial banks' participation in long-term agricultural
lending in the State so far has been negligible. On the basis of their pre-
sent. experience and organization they could not, in the near future, provide
a comprehensive banking alternative to LDB on any appreciable scale. A few
of -he commercial banks might, however, be in a position to undertake part of
the Project's lending program, thus supplementing the operations of the LDB
system and providing alternative banking facilities to farmers.
4.17      Commercial banks usually require farmer contributions of 25 to 40%
and charge interest ranging from 9 to 10 1/2% per annum. Commercial banks
participating in Project lending would be required to conform to the same
lencling terms, conditions and criteria as applied to LDB (except in the case
of farmer contributions - see Schedule B). ARC would invite commercial banks
to participate in Project lending and subsequently would select the banks
which would satisfy its criteria. Participating banks, assisted by ARC,
;IouJLd carry out training courses for the staffs of their branches on the
procedures and criteria applying to the Project.
4.18      ARC would require participating commercial banks to maintain
separate accounts for Project lending and would ensure that such accounts
were audited by auditors acceptable to IDA. In order to guard against over-
investment in minor irrigation schemes in relation to known water resources,
ARC also would ensure that commercial banks would only lend for minor
irr:Lgation investments where a certificate of nonobjection from GSDA had
been received and would adhere to the criteria of Schedule A (in the case
of Lending outside the Project areas, the criteria would apply from one year
after the date of credit effectiveness).
Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency (GSDA)
4.119     Maharashtra is establishing the Groundwater Surveys and Development
Agency (para 2.11). It will have as its nucleus the competent groundwater
staff from the Department of Agriculture, but additional personnel would be
needed under the Project (Annex 1), particularly senior personnel who would
work closely with the consultants to be obtained (para 3.07). A plan for
completing the organization of GSDA, with clearly defined authority and
adequate staffing, has been reviewed by IDA, and it was agreed during nego-
tiations that the implementation of this plan would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
4.20      GSDA would carry out water availability investigations on the basis
of integral hydrogeological units and would specify regulations for invest-
ment in minor irrigation according to the criteria set out in Schedule A.
It would also participate in the group appraisal of dugwells as well as the
individual appraisal of tubewells and lift schemes. In the case of each
investment, it would issue a certificate indicating that the loan application
met the specified criteria, and no loan would be granted without this cer-
tificate. During negotiations, the State Government agreed to apply the
same criteria (Schedule A) to all minor irrigation development under its
direct or indirect control (in the case of development outside the Project
areas, the criteria would apply from one year after the date of credit
effectiveness).



- 17 -
Land Development Agency (LDA)
4.21      Maharashtra is establishing the Land Development Agency within
the Department of Agriculture, utilizing the staff of that department which
is currently involved with land development work as the foundation for the
new unit (para 2.15 and Annex 2). Because of the problems of timing, coor-
dination and control caused by the need to determine the participation of
farmers prior to formulating the work programs, the necessity of implementing
the work in a short period of time, the maintenance of close tolerances on
levelling and grading operations, the seasonal and scattered nature of the
work, and the need to protect standing crops, the main components of the
land development program would be executed by LDA. Where necessary, however,
LDA would subcontract selected parts of the work, particularly those which
would be labor intensive, to be constructed under its supervision. An
assurance was obtained on this latter point.
4.22      In view of the magnitude of the work and the wide dispersion of
operations throughout the State, it is essential that the establishment of
LDA be completed before the Project is undertaken. While the State Govern-
ment has little experience in the planning of machine operations, the
deployment of machines and the implementation of work and maintenance schedules
for a large fleet of earth-moving machines, this experience does exist
elsewhere in India and the State Government should obtain the services of
specialists from this sector to assist in the execution of the land develop-
ment program. It was agreed during negotiations that, as a condition of
credit effectiveness, Maharashtra would complete implementation of a plan,
acceptable to IDA, for the establishment of LDA with clearly delineated
powers and adequate staffing, including the employment whenever necessary of
specialists in land development.
4.23      There is at present no comprehensive schedule of charges for land
development, and therefore the State Government would establish, as a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness, rates sufficient to cover all costs. In the
case of work already performed, the Government would charge farmers for the
cost of work and would make collections from farmers according to the
prescribed repayment schedules. For future land development work outside
the Project, Maharashtra would modify its program to conform substantially
to the procedures and terms relating to the Project. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Indicative farm models have been developed which demonstrate that
Project investments would enable farmers to increase their production
through higher cropping intensities (increasing from a current range of
100%-128% to 136%-153% at full development) and improved yields (Appendix
8-1). The increase in cropped area resulting from the Project would
be about 61,000 ha of which about 40,000 ha would be attributable to minor
irrigation and the remainder would come from land development within
existing irrigation schemes (Appendix 8-3).



- 18 -
5.02      Tn response to the prevailing price framework, which involves sup-
port prices for certain crops, farmers are likely to expand their production
in the direction of foodgrains (mainly sorghum and wheat), cotton, sugarcane,
and bananas (Appendix 8-3). The increase in production (at full development)
would be about 247,000 tons of foodgrains, 50,000 tons of seed cotton,
23,000 tons of groundnuts (unshelled), 400,000 tons of sugarcane, and 215,000
tons of bananas. (The current state-wide production of these crops is as
follows: 7.0 million tons of foodgrains, 243,000 tons of cotton, 694,000
tons of groundnuts, 12.6 million tons of sugarcane, and 875,000 tons of
bananas.) However, any alteration in the price framework, either as a result
of market forces or of administrative decision, would cause a change in the
production response of farmers.
Markets
5.03      The State of Maharashtra is deficit in foodgrains, especially in
sorghum (jowar) - the staple food - and rice. It is therefore expected that
the ProJect's incremental foodgrain production would be consumed within the
State while part of the commercial crops would be retained and the balance
either sold to other States or exported. Apart from sugar, India is not yet
self-sufficient in the commodities to be produced under the Project. It is
expected that sugar refining capacities would be expanded to match estimated
production in Maharashtra.
5.04      A total of 346 regulated markets for agricultural products
have been established throughout the State to ensure that fair marketing
praLctices prevail. Investments to establish another 55 markets as well as
storage and grading facilities have been included in the State's current
Development Plan. Most food crops and some commercial crops are marketed
through the State's Cooperative Marketing Federation, which operates through
a network of 316 primary marketing societies. The Federation acts as the
State's purchasing agent for sorghum and rice.
Prices
5.05      Foodgrain prices are somewhat higher in Maharashtra than in
surplus States and some general decline in price levels must be expected
as India progresses towards the aim of becoming self-sufficient in foodgrains
during this decade. In addition, prices of various crops are considerably
above world market levels (para 6.02). While it remains India's pol-
icy to encourage the agricultural sector through price incentives, uncer-
taiLnties over future food policies make price forecasting particularly dif-
ficult and, therefore, the Project's financial and economic rates of return
have been tested against percentage changes in prices (paras 5.06 and 6.02).
Fa_mers' Benefits
5.06      Farmers' estimated benefits have been based on five indicative
types of farm enterprises that would be financed under the Project (Annex 8).
Based on investment costs, estimated yields and present prices assumed for
these farm models, and after debt service on proposed lending terms (para
4.13), increases in farm incomes would range from Rs 1,720 to Rs 7,332 per
annum as follows:



_ 19 -
Model               I           II        III            IV              V
Type of           Improved      New                      Lift-           Land
Investment         Dugwell     Dugwell    Tubewell    irrigation    Development
Area
Cultivated           4 ha         5 ha       4 ha          5 ha          2.5 ha
Investment                                           /1            /2
Costs             Rs 4,000     Rs 15,500  Rs 11,500--  Rs 10,500L-- Rs 4,500
Annual    /3
Net Income-
At Present:
Family    A        4,276          1,619      1,285         1,687           812
Per Capita-          713            270         214          281           135
At Full Development:
Family    A        6,609          9,581      B,853        10,627         4,279
Per Capita-        1,101          1,597      1,476         1,771           713
Increment            2,333          7,962      7,568         8,940         3,467
Debt Service-          613          2,374       1,762        1,608           745
Increment after
Debt Service       1,720          5,588      5,806         7,332         2,722
/1   Share of total tubewell investment cost of Rs 57,500.
/2   Share of total lift-irrigation investment cost of Rs 480,000.
/3   Family labor excluded from production costs.
/4   Assumes 6 members per family.
/5   On 90% of the investment cost.
These indicative types of farm enterprise show that substantial increases
in the net incomes of such farmers, or groups of farmers, would result from
the proposed investments, and the financial rate of return on incremental
investment is estimated at present prices and costs to range from 40% to
73% for minor irrigation investments and to be about 60% in the case of land
development. However, it must be recognized that these rates of return
are dependent, in particular, upon assumptions made with respect to prices,
cropping intensities, yields, the use of improved current inputs, the avail-
ability of casual labor during peak periods, adequate farm management, and
the rate at which development would occur. In order to test the sensitivity
of the returns against deficiencies in these factors, the gross production
value was decreased by 20%. The financial rates of return then would range
from 24% to 39% (Appendix 8-2), indicating that the investments would still
be viable.
5.07      Farmers at income levels under Rs 36,000 (US$4,900) pay only a
minimal fixed land revenue tax, education cess and local fund cess which are
not based on income. As it is not anticipated that farmers participating in
the Project would have incomes exceeding Rs 36,000, the Project would not
generate any direct tax to be collected from incremental income. Revenue
would be derived from indirect taxes such as the purchase tax on sugarcane
and excise duties on refined sugar and, through corporation taxes payable
by institutions involved in the Project.



- 20 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would benefit at least 45,000 Maharashtra farmers
and their dependents, a total of about 270,000 persons, through investment in
minor irrigation and land development. Direct benefits to the Indian econcmy
would include: first, a higher cropping intensity, which would increase the
production of foodgrains and other commercial crops (para 5.02); second, the
assured availability of water; and third, higher yields, which would be
obtained by applying irrigation facilities and timely cultivation practices
thus enabling better use of high-yielding seed varieties and fertilizers.
Since yields would no longer depend on uncertain rainfall, production on
participating farms would not fluctuate as widely as in the past. India is
at present not self-sufficient in foodgrains, vegetable oil and cotton, and
thus increased production of these commodities would result in foreign
exchange savings. The value of annual crop production at full development
would increase by about US$23 million equivalent.
6.02      The rates of return to the economy would be higher if the value
of the incremental crops were calculated on present Maharashtra prices.
Cot:ton, groundnut and wheat prices for example are some 35 to 45% above
projected world market prices.  Making the appropriate adjustments in
respect of taxes, and using projected world market prices, the economic
rates of return on incremental investment would range from 33 to 55% for
minor irrigation and 39% for land development. As indicated in paragraph
5.06, these returns are dependent upon assumptions made with respect to
various essential factors. In order to test the sensitivity of the returns
against deficiencies of these factors, the gross production value was
decreased by 20%, and the economic rates of return were then found to range
from 15 to 30%. Additional factors which would have an influence on the
Project as a whole are the success of the financial and managerial rehabi-
li:ation of the Primary Banks and rate of implementation of the land devel-
opment program.
6.03      In calculating Project benefits, no account has been taken of
the indirect benefits accruing from increased knowledge of groundwater
resources which, together with the new minor irrigation appraisal methods
and criteria to be introduced, would provide the framework for better
groundwater use throughout Maharashtra. In addition, there would be
other indirect benefits such as the domestic value added and employment
from product processing and marketing activities, demonstration effects on
other farmers, and strengthening of lending institutions. Further,
increased cropping intensity would make better use of family labor and
would mean more employment opportunities for farm workers. Though not
qujntifiable, these factors would enhance the Project's already satisfactory
economic justification.
6.04      In order to improve future project appraisal, it is necessary to
measure the financial and economic benefits which actually result from the
investment. Consequently, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that
ARC would establish a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the financial
andl economic benefits resulting from the agricultural credit projects.



- 21 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the following main assurances were obtained:
(a) lending banks would follow agreed appraisal criteria and
lending policies as set out in Schedules A and B (para 4.03);
(b) LDB would increase its loan limit to 60% of the developed
value of land offered as security (para 4.05); and
(c) ARC would, subject to IDA agreement, withhold refinancing
under the Project from any Primary which fails to make
satisfactory progress on recovering amounts overdue as of
June 30, 1971 or which incurs a default rate of more than
25% of total payments due for any subsequent year (para
4.10).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be:
(a) the appointment of specialists for GSDA in consultation
with IDA and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (para 3.07);
(b) the execution of a loan agreement between GOI and ARC
acceptable to IDA (para 4.03);
(c) the completion of the rehabilitation program of the LDB
system (para 4.10);
(d) the establishment of the Groundwater Surveys and Develop-
ment Agency (GSDA) with well-defined authority, and
staffing acceptable to IDA (para 4.19);
(e) the establishment of the Land Development Administration
(LDA) with clearly delineated powers and staffing
acceptable to IDA, including the services of specialists
(para 4.22); and
(f) the establishment of rates for land development work
sufficient to cover all costs (para 4.23).
7.03      The proposed Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$30 million
under standard IDA terms.
February 11, 1972






SCHEDULE A
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION: APPRAISAL CRITERIA AND PRDCEDURES
I. Investment Requirements
Tubewells
1.        Area;                          Tapi/Puraa basin (sedimentary
areas) falling within the districts
of Dhulia - Jalgaon - Buldhana -
Akola - Amravati
Investment:                    300 tubewells
Pump:                          10 hp submersible or
turbine (guideline)
Minimum peak discharge:        15 1/sec
Minimum irrigated area:        20 ha
Minimum spacing (any other
energized well):               1,000 m
Maximum density:               0.4 tubevell/km2
Dugwells and Dugwell Improvements
2.        Construction of new dugwells and the improvement of existing
dugwells would involve an investment of Re 200 million in the following
regions:
(a)  Area:                          Tapi/Purna basin falling within
the districts of Nasik -
Dhulia - Jalgaon - Buldhana -
Akola - Amravati
(b)  Area:                          Penganga basin falling within
the districts of Yeotmal -
Nanded - Akola - Parbhani



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
(c)  Area:                          Godavari/Manjra basin falling
within the districts of Aurangabad -
Ahmednagar - Bhir - Osmanabad -
Parbhani - Nanded
(d)  Area:                          Bhima Basin falling within the dis-
tricts of Sholapur - Satara - Poona -
Osmanabad - Ahmednagar
(e)  Area:                          Wardha/Wainganga basin falling within
the district of Nagpur
Punp:                                    5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
KLnimum instant discharge:               10 1/sec
KLnimum discharge (December):                  3
Dugwell:                            150 m3/day
Dugwell improvement:                120 m /day
KiLnimum irrigated area:
Dugwell:                            5 ha
Dugwell improvement:                4 ha
M,3ximum density of wells:
d - r x 100
R x A x c
100
Where:    d - density (wells/km )
r - recharge in basin (mm)
R - water requirement for the average cropping pattern (mm)
c - cropping intensity (%)
A - average area irrigated by a well (ha)
Minimum spacing of wells:
s - 1000 R x A x 100
r x 100
where: s - spacing (i)
Overall minimum spacing - 300 m



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
Lift Irrigation
3.        Any scheme having an estimated investment cost greater than
RS 2,000,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval. A detailed appraisal
would be prepared for each individual scheme, with particular attention
being given to water availability, appropriate design, and installation of -
adequate pumping capacity.
II. General Lending Requirements
4.   (a)  If adequate irrigation and drainage channels did not
already exist on farms to benefit from the investment,
the provision of such facilities would be a condition
of lending and could be included in the Project financing.
(b) All minor irrigation investments would include energi-
zation by electricity as far as practicable.
(c) All minor irrigation investments would require a
certificate of nonobjection from the Groundwater Surveys
and Development Agency (GSDA) before a loan were made.
(d) All investments in land development would be preceded by
loan approvals in respect of individual farmers.
III. Guidelines for Organization and Appraisal
Organization
5.   (a)  To the extent compatible with the responsibilities of
ARC under the Project as the refinancing agency, GSDA
would advise on minor irrigation development.
(b) The field offices of GSDA would establish a census grid
map (1:8000) of their respective areas showing existing
wells (with an indication of source of power), farms and
area served by each well, reservoirs, canals, lifts and
electricity lines. They would issue to the lending banks
copies of the grid map covering the banks' lending areas.
They would guide and coordinate the activity of bank
appraisal teams working in their areas.
Appraisal Procedures
6.   (a)  Primary Banks would advertise, seeking applications for
loans and setting out lending terms and an explanation of
appraisal methods. Invitations for applications could be
staggered according to taluk or block.



SCHEDULE A
Page 4
(b)  A bank appraisal team, normally consisting of a supervisor
of the lending bank, a valuation officer and a technical
officer (engineer or geologist), would visit applicants'
farms on a group basis and in the course of appraisal would
sketch the following on the grid map:
(i)  the well sites proposed for installation or improvement;
(ii) farm(s) with owners' name(s) and area to be irrigated by
proposed wells;
(iii) proposed irrigation channels or pipes to be installed/
improved for distribution from proposed wells.
(c)  In addition, dugwell appraisal would be assessed against
the estimated groundwater resources of elementary water-
sheds and these watersheds would be the basic unit of group
appraisal. Calculations of groundwater recharge would be
based on estimated rainfall, runoff, evapotranspiration and
soil moisture parameters supported by a qualitative analysis
of factors such as gradients, soil structure, vegetation
and surface water storage. Field offices of GSDA would be
responsible for demarcating the approximate limits of these
watersheds and of groundwater reservoir boundaries. In
assessing groundwater resources, the appraisal team would
consider:
ti)  the probability of obtaining an adequate December
discharge from the proposed development (150 m3/day
in the case of new dugwells and 120 m3/day in the
case of improved dugwells);
(ii)  the probable existence of two or more basalt layers
under the groundwater level;
(iii)  whether irrigation purposes would be better achieved
by the installation of a new well, which should uot
exceed an investment cost of Rs 18,000, or by the
improvement or an existing well, at a cost generally
not exceeding Rs 6,000, or by extending the use of
water discharged from existing wells.
(d) Proposed tubewell and lift irrigation investments would
be subject to individual financial appraisal; proposed
dugwell investments would be subject to standardized pro-
forma financial appraisal. All appraisals would specifi-
cally include proposals on whether:
(i) there would be a group loan to farmers who would
receive water from the proposed development;



SCHEDULE A
Page 5
(ii) the owner(s) would enter into an agreement to sell
water to farmers other than borrowers;
(iii) there would be other cooperative arrangements.
(e)  Lending banks would submit to the appropriate field
office of GSDA a copy of the appraisal map with relevant
information and recouiendations. The division would
enter the information on its census grid map.
(f)  GSDA would physically check all doubtful cases and, in
addition, 10% of all recommended applications.
(g) On receipt of GSDA's certificate of nonobjection, lending
banks would complete loan formalities in the usual way
and, where appropriate, documentation would include an
agreement for the sale of water.
IV. Lending Criteria and Procedures Applying to
Similar Investments Outside the Project
7.        Outside the Project areas, LDB, all commreial banks, and
all agencies within the direct or indirect control of the State Government
would only lend for minor irrigation investments where:
(i) a certificate of non-objection had been received
from GSDA and,
(ii) such lending conformed to the appraisal criteria
and procedures set out in this schedule, frou one
year after the date of credit effectiveness.
February 11, 1972






SCHEDULE B
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT LENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1.        GOI to ARC
(a) In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i) interest rate of not less than 5-1/2% per annum less
1/4% per annum for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years;
(b) In respect of ARC refinancing for 10 years and above
but not exceeding 15 years:
(i) interest rate of not less than 6% per annum less 1/4%
per annum for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.        ARC to Lending Banks  (LDB and Commercial Banks)
(a) Interest rate not less than 6-1/2% per annum;
(b) Repayments in installments set to coincide approximately
with collections from ultimate borrowers;
(c) Refinancing would be by way of purchase of debentures
or by loans at the rate of 90% of individual loans for
minor irrigation and 75% of individual loans for land
development;
(d) Repayments to ARC from LDB and participating commercial
banks to be deposited in a special account for refinancing
ARC - approved agricultural development schemes.
3.        LDB to Primary Banks
(a) Interest rate not less than 7-1/2% per annum;
(b) Repayments in installments set to coincide
approximately with collections from ultimate
borrowers;



SCHEDULE B
Page 2
(c) Loans would cover the total amount of Primary Banks'
lending to individuals.
4.        Primary Banks and Commercial Banks Lending to Individuals
(a) Interest rate not less than 9% per annum;
(b) A once-and-for-all evaluation fee of 1/2% of the cost
of individual project costs;
(c) Loan Limit: 60% of the developed value of land offered
as eecurity;
(d) Farmers' contributions (Primary Banks):
(i)  for normal lending, a minimum of 10% of the
cost of Project investments;
(ii) for lending to small farmers, 1/ no downpayment
in the case of minor irrigation investments
costing less than Rs 10,000 each. 2/
In addition to the investment contribution, farmers would
contribute to LMB capital an amount equal to 10% of their loans.
(e) Farmers' contribution (Commercial Banks):
(i)  for normal lending a minimum of 20% of the cost
of Project investments;
(ii) for lending to small farmers, 1/ a minimum of 10%
of the cost of minor irrigation investments
costing less than Rs 10,000 each.
(f) Maturities, which would not exceed the life of the
asset financed, would be:
(i) for normal lending, a maximum of:
(1) 9 years on loans for tubewells, lift irrigation
schemes, dugwells and dugwell improvements;
(2) 10 years for land development loans including
a two-year grace period in which interest
only would be payable;
1/   Small farmers have been defined, in accordance with criteria agreed
with IDA, as those farmers cultivating an amount of land which
provides them with an annual net income (after cultivation costs but
before debt service) of Rs 2400 or less but with sufficient
land to permit an incremental income from the proposed investment
at least high enough to meet the principal and interest payments
on a loan for that investment. This formula is applied on an
individual scheme basis by ARC.
2/   The provisions for lending to small farmers for minor irrigation would
also apply to small farmers participating in joint investments where
their shares of the total investment cost did not exceed Rs 10,000
each.



SCHEDULE B
Page 3
(3)  7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed
as individual loans or included in dugwell loans;
(ii) for lending to small farmers as defined, a maximum of:
(1) 15 years for minor irrigation loans where the
investment cost was less than Rs 10,000 each, except
for pumpsets where the loan period would not
exceed 7 years whether financed as individual
loans or included in dugwell loans;
(2) 15 years including two-year grace period for
land development.
In each case repayments would commence in the year following
the completion of the investment.
5.        Other LDB Lending Operations
LMB and Primary Banks would apply the same down payment and
maturity requirements to all their similar lending operations, and the
same interest rates, evaluation fee and collateral requirements to all
their lending operations (except in the case of schemes submitted under
the aegis of the Small Farmers and Marginal Farmers Development Agencies
in Maharashtra).
February 11, 1972






SCHEDULE C
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECr
PARTICIPATING PRIMARY BANKS
Ahmednagar
Akola
Airavati
Aurangabad
Bhandara
Bhir
Buldhana
Dhulia
Jalgaon
Kohlapur
Nagpur
Nanded
Nasik
Parbhani
Poona
Sangli
Satara
ShQlapur
Udgir
Wardha
Yeotmal
February 11, 1972






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECr
Minor Irrigation
Hydrogeological Conditions
1.        The major part of Maharashtra is located on the plateau formed by
the massive volcanic formation known as the Deccan Trap. It is composed of
alternate layers of compact basalt and volcanic ashes, and is estimated to
have a thickness of several thousand meters. Near the surface, the basalt
layers are 3-10m thick, and 2-3 of them are found interbedded with the
volcanic ashes or clay in the first 30-50m. The main physiographic features
of the region have been caused by the erosion of the trap resulting in long
ranges of basaltic hills dividing the main river basins. There are three
groups of river basins in the state:
(a) the narrow coastal region with small basins draining from
the Western Ghats westward to the Arabian Sea;
(b) the Tapi/Purna basin at the northern edge of the Deccan
Plateau which also drains to the west; and
(c) the Godavari system of the Deccan Plateau, draining to the
east.
2.        Annual rainfall averages about 2,500 mm in the coastal region, but
the Western Ghats give rise to a meteorological shade, the effect of which
is to lower the amount of precipitation over the Deccan Plateau and the
Tapi basin. The average rainfall in the western part of the plateau is
700 mm. In the central zone, average rainfall is about 900 mm and increases
to over 1,200 mm in the east. Temperature varies from a maximum of 45C
in May to a low, in some areas, of 8C in December. For most of the state,
about two-thirds of the rainfall occurs during the southwest monsoon, or
kharif, from June to October, while the remainder occurs primarily during
the northeast monsoon, or rabi, from November to February. March to May is
the dry season, or early kharif. Interannual variations in rainfall are
greater in the 700 mm zone where even the kharif rainfall is not assured.
In the 900 mm region, kharif rainfall is sufficient for grains and other
food crops, but rabi crops and perennial crops need irrigation supplements.
3.        Following the rainfall distribution, run-off in the rivers is
concentrated in kharif: about 85% occurs from July to October. Small basins
(100-500 km2) oll the western slopes of the Western Ghats2have a run-off
of 1,000 to 1,600 mm. For large basins (about 10,000 km ) in the Deccan



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Plateau, the run-off ranges from 110 to 560 mm. The base flow, or discharge
of the groundwater reservoir, has been estimated at 20 to 40% of the total
river flow.
4.        Groundwater recharge figures have been calculated for various
basins. While they are based on limited data, they do indicate that there
are large variations from basin to basin and that recharge is not a constant
percentage of rainfall.  Under these circumstances, recharge must be deter-
mined on a local basis from historical data and field tests in representative
basins.
5.        There are two types of groundwater reservoirs in the State:  alluvial
deposits in the valleys (primarily the Tapi Puima) and the basalt layers in
the Deccan Plateau. Permeability of the sand and gravel beds in the alluvial
formations is generally good (1.2 x 10-3 m/hec), and existing tubewells have
specific capacities ranging from 1 to 10 liters per second per meter draw-
domn with an average of 5 1/sec/m. Although only a light exploratory prog-
ran has been carried out, data is sufficient to indicate that there is scope
for further tubewell development, which would be accompanied by complementary
investigations such as geoelectrical surveys and additional exploratory
drillings, and dugwell construction.
6.        Permeability of the basalt layers is related to the particular
types of basalt involved (vesicular) and to the fissuration of this material.
It is generally low: existing energized dugwells have a discharge of 80
to 180 m3/day. However, the discharge of low-yielding wells normally can be
imiproved   often doubled - by drilling boreholes through the underlying
basalt layers.
7.        The hydrogeological conditions described above are not favorable
to extensive two- or three-crop cultivation. The high concentration of
rainfall in kharif and the variability of rainfall in rabi make it necessary
to use every storage possibility for regulation of the outflow, but the
topography does not yield many opportunities for the construction of large
dams and extended irrigation networks. Although groundwater storage provides
substantial capacity for regulation, the permeability of the aquifers does
not permit the utilization of high-yielding wells. Therefore, regulation
must be achieved through a combination of large dams, small dams (tanks),
lift irrigation schemes, and wells.
Present Water Use
8.        The water resources of Maharashtra are extremely limited.  The
Government estimates total availability at 74 billion m3 which it calculates
to be sufficient to irrigate only 6 million ha at full development (about
30% of the total cultivable area of 21 million ha). It is therefore
critical that utilization of water be as efficient as possible and that
wastage be kept to an absolute minimum. At present, about 9 billion m3,
(12X of total available) are being used for irrigation, 5 billion by wells



ANNEX 1
Page 3
and 4 billion by surface water schemes (including lift irrigation). The
area under irrigation is about 1.2 million ha (6% of total cultivable area),
0.7 miUion from wells and 0.5 million from surface schemes.
9.        Over the past 15 years, well irrigat:xon has accounted for about
80% of the increase in irrigated area, and the current rate of development
of 60,000 ha/year for wel irrigation and 20,000 ha/year for surface
irrigation approximately continues this relationship. There are various
reasons for this pattern of development:
(a) Topographical conditions are not favorable for the
implementation of large surface water schemes, thus limiting
the possibilities and increasing the cost of construction
in the case of those that do exist;
(b) Government financing from budgetary resources has not been
sufficient to meet the high costs involved in large surface
water schemes;
(c) Large surface water schemes generally require agreements
between States which are not always forthcoming; and
(d) Irrigation development by wells corresponds to the managerial
capability of the farmer and, for any given farm unit, can
be implemented more rapidly than large surface schemes.
10.            These factors have led to the more rapid development of ground-
water, even though the unit investment cost is generally higher (2,500 to
4,500 Rs/ha vs. 2,000 to 2,500 Rs/ha). Lift irrigation schemes combine some
of the advantages of ground and large surface water projects. Their small
size generally fits that of farmers' cooperatives, their unit investment
cost is lower than that of surface schemes, and their implementation period is
relatively short. Consequently it can be expected that there will be
increased development of lift schemes on rivers with a sustained base flow
or with adequate storage capacity.
11.            Present use of groundwater is quite inefficient.  There are
currently 743,000 wells (almost all are dugwells) which irrigate a total of
713,000 ha, giving a command area per well of just under 1 ha. Since the
average existing well could command an area of about 2 ha, it is apparent
that water is being wasted and that wells are not being utilized to
capacity. Furthermore, many wells give very low yields or are dry. Some
of the principal reasons for this situation are the following:
(a) lack of knowledge of crop water requirements on the part
of farmers, leading to over-watering of crops;



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(b) over-exploitation of groundwater in specific areas,
resulting in the poor performance of all wells in those
areas;
(c) low technical criteria for individual wells with regard
to siting and design;
(d)  lack of endeavor to raise criteria for installation of
wells, on the basis that assured irrigation in rabi was not
necessary. (However, the farmer does not obtain a reasonable
return and is not able to maintain loan repayments unless
he gets assured water in rabi as well as in kharif.); and
(e) a limit on loans for wells which was imposed by LMB until
1967, resulting in unfinished wells and wells of low
standard.
While the situation in Hahrashtra is not critical, there are certain areas
where exploitation of groundwater should be stopped and others where it
should be severely restricted. However, no legislation exists, at present,
to control the exploitation of groundwater. Model legislation has been
prepared by the Central Government with a view to eventual enactment by the
States, but until such time as this legislation has been passed, the
Maharashtra Government has agreed to implement various measures through the
lending program and through administrative actions. In order to achieve
ithe widest control possible, the agreed criteria for investments in minor
:Lrrigation would apply not only to Project investments but also to all minor
:Lrrigation development within the direct or indirect control of the State
Government.
]'roposed Development
'12.           The Project would include 300 tubewells irrigating a total of
6,000 ha at a cost of Rs 18 million, 175 lift irrigation schemes commanding
40,000 ha at a cost of Rs 84 million, and an investment in dugwells and
dugwell improvements of the Rs 200 million (equivalent to about 11,100 new
energized dugwells) to irrigate about 60,000 ha. Although the proposal
submitted by Maharashtra included 1,000 borewells for the Deccan trap
region, they have been excluded from the Project because the feasiblity of
this type of well has not been established. It will be necessary for GSDA
to carry out a program of experimentation in order to determine the
technical and economic viability of such wells.
13.            The water utilization involved in the Project would be 1.1 billion
m3 (700 million m3 of groundwater and 400 million m3 of surface water),
wrell within the global availabilities. The rate of implementation for
groundwater development of 22,000 ha/year compares with a current rate for
the State as a whole of 60,000 ha/year, while that of 13,000 ha/year for
surface schemes compares with a current level of 20,000 ha/year.
14.            While there is over-exploitation of groundwater resources in
localized areas, significant potential for further dugwell development



ANNEX 1
Page 5
still exists in areas where the well density is relatively low. Even
in areas where the density is near the level of maximum utilization, some
improvement of dugwells may be warranted by local conditions. Thus, dugwell
development would take place in several areas in the State, on the basis of
a watershed analysis (paras 20-22).
15.       Tubewell development would be restricted to the Tapi/Purna basin
and would provide for the installation of 50 in the first year, 100 in the
second year, and 150 in the third year. This pattern of construction would
be influenced not only by the implementation capacity of the organizations
involved but also by the necessity of carrying out complementary investiga-
tions during the early stages of the Project (para 24).
16.       Lift irrigation schemes would be located in river basins throughout
much of the State. With the advantages of small organizational units and
low unit investment cost, they show particular promise for future irrigation
development. However, particular attention would have to be given to water
availability (especially the effect of upstream irrigation developments
including wells), efficient water use, and appropriate design of pumping
and distribution systems (para 25).
Appraisal Criteria and Procedures
17.       In order to avoid over-exploitation, to increase the efficiency
of irrigation, and to provide additional data on water resources, a new
system of appraisal would be adopted which would be based on an analysis
of river basins, sub-basins, and elementary watersheds. In this manner,
utilization of water resources in a given hydrogeological unit can be
planned on a comprehensive basis with the necessary coordination of dugwells,
tubewells, lift irrigation schemes, and other surface water schemes. As
indicated in Appendix 1-1, the present river gaging network covers basins
encompassing about 85% of planned Project investments. Particularly in
these basins, the data from the gaging stations and information from existing
irrigation installations are sufficient to proceed immediately with a program
of development. Even in basins without gaging stations, it would be possible
to begin a program based on other sources of data, although at a more
cautious rate.
18.       The first priority for data-gathering would be to install primary
gaging stations in those basins currently without them and to add comple-
mentary stations in all basins covered by the Project. They would provide
differential gaging of both run-off and base flow. One or more elementary
watersheds in each basin would be equipped to provide related data on
rainfall, run-off and fluctuations of the groundwater level. They would
be selected on the basis of factors such as geology, topography, vegetation
and agro-climatic conditions in order to give as representative a sample as
possible. Data collected from this network would permit a substantial



ANNEX 1
Page 6
improvement in the quality of appraisals in the second and third years of
the Project. Although the proposal submitted by the Maharashtra Government
indicated that dugwell investments would be limited to specified taluks, it
would be preferable to include all areas of a district or districts which
fall within a given watershed, in order to permit a more integrated develop-
me:nt.
19.       In the regions upstream from the gaging stations, the existing
del2sity of wells would be determined out to the limits of the watershed
boundaries and would be entered on a map of the basin. The maximum well
density which the watershed could support then would be calculated according
to the formulas given in para 20. A comparison of the actual density with
the maximum density for the basin would indicate the scope for further deve-
lopment.
20.       Dugwells would be appraised on a group basis following the
framework analysis indicated above. General criteria to be observed would
be as follows:
(a) the areas chosen for installation or improvement of dugwells
would comprise at least two underlying basalt layers at a
depth no greater than 50 m. Geophysical surveys and in some
cases boreholes would be utilized to make this determination;
(b) priority would be given to areas where fluctuations of the
groundwater level are the smallest. Areas with large fluctua-
tions are likely to have scarce groundwater resources with low
dependability;
(c) each dugwell would be designed to contain a minimum amount of
water at the end of the dry season, even in years when the
groundwater level is lowest (100% dependability);
(d) all dugwells would be energized (by electricity as far as possible)
with motor of about 5 hp (in any case sufficient to provide an
instant discharge of 10 1/sec) and would be provided with one or
more boreholes; and
(e) each new dugwell would irrigate a minimum commanded area of
5 ha while each improved dugwell would have a minimum
command area of 4 ha. If the size of holdings in an area
were smaller than these figures, appropriate arrangements
would be made to share water.
The performance of each dugwelL is related to its design, location, distance
frorm other wells (spacing), and the total number of wells within the hydro-
geological unit. With proper siting, appropriate overall design, adequate
storage capacity and one or more boreholes (up to 50 m deep), tapping 2 and
possibly 3 strata of basalt, an energized dugwell in average conditions



ANNEX 1
Page 7
in Maharashtra can sustain a discharge of 150 m /day.  The spacing and the
number of wells are determined from the elementary water balance which can
be written as follows:
water availability - potential utilization
r x a x 100  -  R x A x  c   x n
100
where:  r  -  rate of recharge in m                2
a  -  area of recharge (watershed) in km
R  -  water requirement for the average
cropping pattern in the basin in um
A  -  average size of the area irrigated by
a dugwell in ha
c  -  average cropping intensity for the
basin in %
n  -  number of dugwells which the watershed
could support
The number of dugwells which the watershed could support is calculated from
the above equation by solving for n:
n - r x a x 100
R x A x c
100
The maximum density of dugwells (d) for the watershed (in terms of dugwells
per km2) and the spacing (s) between dugwells (in m) are then calculated
as follows:
d -    r x 100
-and
R x A x c
100
a - 1000a/7
s - 1000    xAxc
1 1~00
r x 100
21.       The maximum density of dugwells to be used in comparison with
actual density would be determined on the basis of average values for the
parameters r, R, A, and c. For Maharashtra as a whole, a representative
maximum density could be found by taking:



ANNEX 1
Page 8
r    -    80 m (average recharge)
R    -   700 mm (medium irrigation)
c    -   140% (semi-intensive cropping)
A    -   4 ha (irrigated area for an improved dugwell)
With this data, the maximum density for the state is 2.0 dugwells/km2
the existing density varies from 0.3 to 7.0 dugwells/km2.
22.       Since it is unlikely that an average density of dugwells can be
maintained over the entire area of a watershed, it would be reasonable to
permit somewhat narrower spacing in localized areas than would be indicated
by the use of average values in the formula for as long as the total
number of dugwells in the watershed did not exceed the number indicated by
the formula for n (using average values). Thus the minimum spacing allowable
would be calculated on the basis of a maximum value for r and minimum values
for R, c, and A. Taking
r    -    125 mm (maximum recharge);
R         500 mm (light irrigation - supplementary);
c    -    120% (extensive cropping); and
A    _    2 ha (irrigated area for an unimproved dugwell),
the formula gives a minimum spacing of s - 300 m.
23.        In addition to determining, on a systematic basis, the areas with
a favorable potential for further dugwell development and implementing
investigations to obtain data for improving the quality of appraisals, GSDA
would undertake the training of appraisal teams from the LMB system. GSDA
would provide them with guidelines regarding density and spacing to be
followed in any given watershed and would also give them instructions on
siting and design, and on efficient utilization of irrigation water.
24.       Tubewells would be located only in the Tapi/Purna basin.  Some
exploratory work has been performed, and available information indicate that
a program for development of tubewells with a minimum discharge of 15 l/sec
(sufficient to irrigate 20 ha under an intensive cropping pattern) at 5 to
10 m drawdown is feasible. Care would be taken to locate them outside the
areas of high dugwell intensity (over 10/km2) since dugwells often contain
boreholes and tap the same reservoir as a tubewell. Complementary investi-
gations, including geoelectrical surveys, some additional exploratory tube-
wells (to be installed by the groundwater unit of the Central Government),
pumping tests, and hydro-chemical analyses, would be carried out in conjunc-
tion with the first part of the exploitation program in order to provide data



ANNEX 1
Page 9
for more intensified development in the second and third years of the Project.
Spacing of tubewells eventually would be based on a Theiss-Jacob analysis,
but until such time as GSDA is equipped2to perform this analysis, the density
of tubewells would be limited to 0.4/km (about 1/sq mi). Tubewells would
be located at least 2 km away from any saline water zone (over 2,500 ppm),
detected by geoelectrical surveys and electrical logging. Appraisal of tube-
wells would be performed on an individual basis, taking into consideration
the factors mentioned above and utilizing electrical logging techniques to
determine the final design of the assembly. Design features would include
cement sealing of the upper part of the assembly and utilization of appro-
priate strainers.
25.       For lift irrigation schemes, analyses would be performed to establish
the basin-wide relationships between surface and groundwater, insuring that
adequate water supplies would be given to regulation capability on the river,
present and planned well development in the basin and pumping from small
ponds related to groundwater leakage. Care would be given to the proper
design of each scheme, and adequate pumping capacity would be installed to
provide an instant discharge of 1.6 times the average discharge needed to
fulfill the crop water requirements. In general, this criterion would in-
dicate an instant discharge capability of 75 1/sec for 100 ha (1.1 cusec
for 100 ac).
Organization and Management
26.       The State Government is establishing the Groundwater Surveys and
Development Agency (GSDA) within the Department of Industries to carry out
groundwater investigations and drilling operations. It would have seven
field offices throughout the State. The nucleus of the staff for the agency
would be the staff of the Agriculture Department's present Groundwater Wing
which is well-qualified and headed by a capable and experienced senior
official. However, the field personnel have little experience, and it would
be necessary to appoint 3 or 4 senior specialists (hydrologists, geophysicists,
water management engineers) to assist the head of the agency in planning and
implementing the GSDA program, and in providing guidance to the field staff.
Since the functions of the present groundwater staff are now mainly explora-
tory, they would be reoriented to provide more emphasis on guidance and
control. The main fields of activity would be as follows:
(a) Investigations of water availability on the basis of
hydrogeological units;
(b) the progressive application of sound water management on
all irrigated areas to ensure the efficient utilization
of all water resources;
(c) the establishment of mapping units to prepare maps for the
entire State and gradually to develop a global well census;
and
(d) the training and supervision of appraisal teams which would
be staffed by the LDB system assisted by personnel of the
relevant Government departments.



AN,i'_'X   1
Pagr. 10
In Lhe case of each investment, GSDA would issue a certificate of non-
objection that it complied with the criteria established for minor irrigation
development (Schedule A). No loan would be granted without this certificate.
27.       The well construction operations currently undertaken by the
Agriculture Department involve primarily the drilling of boreholes in dug-
wells and the operation of blasting units for deeping dugwells. Since no
work has been done on tubewells in sedimentary areas, tubewells would be
installed by private contractors.  Close coordination would be exercised with
the Water Resources Division of the Irrigation Department. Since groundwater
and surface water are inter-related factors in global water availability and
use, investigation and control of all water resources might usefully be
combined in a single entity at some future date.
23.       In order to provide GSDA with the benefit of substantial experience
in water management and program implementation, two consulting engineers
(hydrologist, and water management specialist) over a period of two years
would be included in the Project (Appendix 1-2). These specialists would
have high technical qualifications and considerable management experience
in the operation of programs similar to that proposed.
Eq1uipment
29.       Four hammer drills would be included in the Project in order to
enable GSDA to reach the capacity necessary for implementation of the dugwell
program and to experiment with deep boreholes (150-300 m) which might yield
good results for constant discharge wells on the Deccan Plateau. In
aidition, an amount of US$100,000 would be provided for the purchase of
gaging equipment such as river gages, level recorders, rain gages, current
meters, etc. A detailed list of the equipment required would be prepared
by the GSDA, assisted by its consultants, in cooperation with the Water
Resources Divsion of the Irrigation Department.
February 11, 1972



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-1
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Basins and Gaging Stations for Minor Irrigation Development
The Project would involve minor irrigation development in the
basins listed below with the relevant gaging stations. These basins would
encompass about 85% of minor irrigation investments. Some basins included
in the Project - Tapi, Wardha and Wainganga - do not have gaging stations and
such stations would be established as a first priority. Sufficient data
is available to undertake further development in all Project basins, but
greater care will need to be taken in those initially without gaging stations
in order to guard against over exploitation.
Krishna Basin (Panchganga, Tamrapani and Krishna Rivers)
Gaging Stations: Terwad, Rajgoli, Shirti
Investment      : Lift irrigation
Districts       : Kholapur, Satara, Sangli
Bhima Basin: (Bhima River)
Gaging Station : Dhond
Investment      : Lift irrigation
Districts       : Poona, Ahmednagar
Gaging Station : Mingangaon
Investment      : DugwellB
Districts       : Poona, Satara, Sholapur
Gaging Station : Sholapur
Investment      : Dugwells and lift irrigation
District        : Sholapur
Manjra Basin (Manjra River)
Gaging Station : Dhanegaon
Investment      : Dugwells and lift irrigation
Districts       : Osmanabad, Bhir
Godavari Basin (Godavari River)
Gaging Station : Nanded
Investment      : Dugwells and lift irrigation
Districts       : Nanded, Parbhani, Bhir



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-1
Page 2
Gaging Station : Mungi
Investment      : Dugwells
Districts       : Aurangabad, Ahmednagar
Penganga Basin (Penganga River)
Gaging Stations: Chikli, Wardha
Investment      : Dugwells and lift irrigation
Districts       : Yeotmal, Nanded, Akola
Purna Basin (Purna River)
Gaging Station : Ghodasgaon
Investment      : Dugwells, tubewells, lift irrigation
Districts       : Akola, Amravati, Buldhana
February 11, 1972



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-2
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Proposed Consultancy
Services to Groundwater Surveys and
Development Agency
Terms of Reference
1.        The responsibilities of experts hired to give technical and
organizational assistance to the Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency
(GSDA) would be as follows:
(a) to review and advise on the work program, organization and
staffing of GSDA generally and specifically for the purpose
of administering appraisal and recording procedures for
proposed minor irrigation investments throughout Maharashtra;
(b) to assist in the establishment of map units and methods of
recording of information arising from the area census of
wells and other relevant data;
(c) to assist in coordinating all technical data relating to
groundwater exploitation including the results of the aerial
survey covering Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra,
and Mysore;
(d) to advise on the best methods of groundwater exploitation
in trap areas and of well development generally in the
State;
(e) to advise and assist in the training of staff both within
and outside GSDA concerned with the appraisal of minor
irrigation investments;
(f) to advise on a work program to improve water management and
control;
(g) to give advice on research matters relevant to the proposed
Project investment program;
(h) to advise and assist in any other matters relating to the
implementation of the Project and agreed criteria; and
(i) to select and analyze representative watersheds within the
river basins.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-2
Page 2
peicifications for and Duties of Posts
2.        The qualifications and specific duties of the two groundwater
experts, who would be engaged for two years, should be as follows:
(a) Chief Advisor
(i) Background should be in hydrology with at least 10
years relevant experience. Most of his experience
should be in groundwater development and planning.
He should personally have conducted groundwater in-
vestigations in the field and must have a good
organizational ability. He should be competent to
advise on the mapping and recording of wells and data
relevant to groundwater development. If possible, he
should also have experience in water management and
control; and
(ii) He would be responsible for the overall direction of
the advisory program, giving policy advice to SGD.
He would also take an active part in field analysis
aspects of the program.
(b) Assistant Advisor
(i) The assistant advisor should have a background in
water management. It is essential that he should
have had at least five years practical experience in
groundwater investigation and should be thoroughly
familiar with, and experienced in, the methods of re-
charge determination and aquifer testing. It would be
desirable that he should have particular experience
with crystalline rock conditions. He should be
capable of advising on the organization of field
appraisal work and the mapping and recording of data; and
(ii) The assistant advisor would be responsible for advising
field personnel through normal line channels, in accord-
ance with the terms of reference.
February 11, 1972



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Land Development
Background
1.        Land development, involving activities such as construction of
water courses and field drains, bunding, grading 1/ and levelling, to permit
an efficient utilization of water, has been an integral part of irrigation
development since early times. It was not until recently, however, that
land development came to be planned and implemented on a centralized basis
in order to overcome the difficulties posed by the higher gradients being
encountered and to ensure the expeditious and effective utilization of
water over large areas as it became available from the storage systems.
Because of the magnitude of the work involved for each individual farmer -
again as a result of the higher gradients - financing frequently was pro-
vided, either directly or indirectly.
2.        Land development operations are carried out either by hired labor,
sometimes assisted by bullocks, or by earth moving machinery. However,
progress in Maharashtra has been greatly hampered by the shortage of labor
in rural areas and the lack of equipment. Consequently, the Project
contemplates the use of machines for bunding, grading and levelling. The
construction of water courses and field drains would be carried out by labor.
Long-Term Land Development Program
3.        Maharashtra's flow irrigation system presently commands an area of
about 243,000 ha, and it is planned to increase this area to approximately
526,000 ha by 1981 on a total of 15 irrigation schemes. While some land
development work has been carried out on most of the area now under irri-
gation, the shortage of labor and lack of equipment have been major con-
straints, and it is estimated that one or more activities remain to be
completed on almost all of the area. Therefore the program for the next
ten years is to finish the land development work on the 243,000 ha now under
command and to undertake work on the additional 283,000 ha to be irrigated,
in accordance with the schedule of water availability.
1/ Removal of uneven features without altering the basic slope of the land.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Prject Land Development
h4.       The Project would encompass the first three years of the program
(1973-1975) and would involve land development work on six irrigation
:3chemes, commanding about 175,000 ha (Appendix 2-1). Activities would
Lnclude the levelling of 9,000 ha, grading of 24,000 ha, bunding of 47,000
ha, and construction of water courses and field drains on 115,000 ha 1/.
Components of Project Land Development
The basic components of land development which would be carried
out under the project are as follows:
(a) Water courses and field drains. Water courses would be
constructed to carry water from the 1-1/2 cusec outlets
at the lower end of the major distribution system to the
individual farms in the command. The courses would have
a cross - sectional area of 0.35 m2 and retaining banks
0.3 m high and 0.15 m wide. Similarly, field drains would
be constructed to collect seepage and deliver it to the
lowest collection point of the major drainage system.
Concrete boxes, drops and crossings would be provided
where required.
(b) Bunding. Graded bunds would be constructed on gradients
of 0.5% or more and would be provided with draw-off channels
and outlets. They would be spaced at distances of 45-85 m,
depending on the gradient, and would have a cross - sectional
area of 0.5 m2.
(c) Grading. This operation would be limited mainly to removing
knolls and filling up holes and gullies, thus leaving the
basic gradient of the land unchanged. The major part of the
work would be with a slope of 1-2%. It is estimated that,
on average, about 75 m3 of earth per ha would be moved over
a distance of about 85 m.
(d) Levelling. This operation is proposed for those areas having
conditions suitable for paddy. It would be carried out on
land having a maximum slope of 2% and would reduce the slope
to 0.1%. An average of about 600 m3 of earth per ha would be
moved over a distance of about 85 m.
1/   Since these activities will be implemented in various combinations
on land to be developed, the sum of the areas exceeds the total
command area.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Equipment Requirements
6.        The earth moving equipment proposed for the Project would comprise
elevator scrapers (self-propelled) and land planes for the levelling and
grading work, and crawler tractors for bunding.
7.        The elevator scrapers would be able to operate completely as
self-contained units since the elevator loads soil into the carrying bowl
of the machine, therefore avoiding the need for a crawler tractor which is
often required for use with a non-elevating scraper when operating in hard-
soil conditions such as are found in Maharashtra. Also, the elevator
scrapers have rubber tires which would enable them to travel on very poor
roads and would eliminate the need for a transporter to move them from one
area to another. The machines proposed for the Project would be of 135-160
hp and have a carrying bowl of 7-9 m3 capacity, a net weight of 14,000 -
18,000 kg, and a gross weight of 23,000 - 30,000 kg.
8.        The land planes, with a small capacity bucket the full width of
the machine, would be used to move earth from high spots to low ones in
order to obtain an even finish on fields that are being levelled or graded.
Since they are not self-propelled, they would have to be drawn by tractors.
9.        The crawler tractors, equipped with hydraulically - operated
toolbars, bunding discs, and angledozer blades, would be used for the
construction of bunds. The discs would be utilized for heaping earth in
the initial operations, and the angledozer blades would be used for compact-
ing and finishing bunds.
10.       Assuming an eight-month working season of 2,000 hr and work rates
of 0.1 ha/hr for levelling and 0.25 ha/hr for grading, 48 elevator scrapers
would be required. Finishing of the levelling and grading operations would
require 20 land planes working at 0.4 ha/hr each. For bunding, 20 crawler
tractors operating at a rate of about 0.5 ha/hr each would be required.
The total equipment needed for the Project would then be as follows:
Elevator scrapers               48
Land planes                     20
Crawler tractors
Bunding                    20
Planing                   20
11.       The Maharashtra Department of Agriculture presently has about 75
usable crawler tractors (about 60 hp) of several different makes, over half
of which are lying idle for lack of implements (primarily angledozer blades).
The reliability of this equipment is not high because of the spare parts
and general maintenance problems posed by the number of makes. However, it



ANNEX 2
Page 4
considered that, in addition to the non-land development work now being
jerformed by the machines in operation, they could be used to pull the land
planes. They would also be utilized as a complement to the elevator scrapes
for those areas too small for the efficient utilization of the more
sophisticated equipment, assuming that angledozer blades are acquired for
the machines lacking them. Furthermore, they would serve as back-up equip-
ment for the bunding work. Therefore all of the equipment indicated above,
with the exception of the 20 crawler tractors for drawing the land planes,
would have to be acquired under the Project. The rate of work to be under-
taken by machines during the Project period is lower than that planned for
the later stages of the program and therefore the Project equipment would
be utilized fully throughout its useful life.
Cost Estimates
12.       Because various combinations of activities will be performed
on any given unit of land, and the cost of a given activity will depend
on the conditions existing on that particular unit (slope, etc.),
umit costs for the area as a whole and covering all activities are not
especially meaningful. However, average unit costs for grading and level-
Ling can be combined with those for the other activities in order to pro-
vide an indication of the principal composites involved.  Thus for land
which would be graded, bunded, and provided with water courses and field
drains, the unit cost would be Rs 880/ha. Similarly, the unit cost for
development which would include levelling, bunding, and the provision of
water courses and field drains would be Rs 1780/ha. The total cost of
Land development would be Rs 46.1 million as indicated in Appendix 2-2 with
;m analysis by Project year and in Appendix 2-3 with a division by activity.
Organization and Procedures
'13.      Maharashtra is establishing the Land Development Agency (LDA) as
a semi-autonomous body within the Department of Agriculture. It will be
headed by a senior administrative officer and will assimilate the Soil
Conservation Wing of the Department. Because of the problems of timing,
coordination, and control caused by the need to determine the participation
of farmers prior to formulating the work programs, the necessity of
implementing the work in a short period of time, the maintenance of close
tolerances on levelling and grading operations, the seasonal and scattered
nature of the work, and the need to protect standing crops, the main
components of the land development program would be executed by LDA. To
the extent feasible, however, LDA would sub-contract selected parts of the
work to be constructed under its supervision.
114.      LDA would draw up annual work programs detailing areas, operations
schedules, labor recruitment and machinery deployment. It would have
offices in each of the Project areas to undertake detailed topographical
surveys, prepare maps, determine the quantities of work involved by activity,
calculate the machine and labor requirements, and prepare the cost estimates.
]n cooperation with the appropriate extension and development field staff,



ANNEX 2
Page 5
the offices would be responsible for informing farmers of the program and
obtaining letters of consent from them. Once the costs for individual far-
mers had been established, loans for farmers who needed them and could meet
the banking requirements would be arranged through the LDB Primaries
according to the normal procedures. With the financing arranged, the LDA
offices would supervise the execution of the physical work program.
15.       Under the provisions of the Land Improvement Schemes Act 1942,
the State Government has the right to execute land development work and
require repayment by farmers over a 15 year period. This program, in areas
outside the Project would be modified to conform substantially to the
procedures and terms in effect under the Project. Costs for land develop-
ment work already carried out would be charged to farmers and would be
collected according to the prescribed schedules.
Maintenance
16.       Four workshops are located at strategic points throughout the
State, but they would have difficulty servicing a larger fleet of earth
moving equipment, particularly one containing the more sophisticated
machines contemplated under the Project.  Therefore the suppliers would be
required to provide most of the maintenance for the equipment. In addition
to a complement of spare parts, the suppliers would be directed to provide
the specialized items of service equipment, mobile workshops for field
repairs, and personnel sufficient to supervise maintenance of the equipment.
Training
17.       Efficient utilization of the earth moving equipment would require
shift operation with three operators per machine. In order to instruct the
operators involved on equipment which is in part new to Maharashtra (the
elevator scrapers and land planes), the suppliers would be required to
institute and run training programs utilizing the same models of equipment
which would be supplied for the land development work. The programs would
cover operation and field maintenance of the equipment and would take place
prior to delivery of the equipment for the field work. Training for all
three types of machine (elevator scrapers, land planes and crawler tractors)
would be given at the same location(s) in order that all operators would
have some familiarity with all machines, thus providing an additional
measure of flexibility in the field.
18.       In addition to instruction for operators, training would be
provided (also by suppliers) to the personnel who would prepare maps,
calculate the work quantities involved, and supervise the use of stakes
to identify where cut and fill operations would take place.
19 .       Some assistance also would be required for the management of the
land development work, in view of the larger fleet and the more sophisticated
equipment involved. This assistance would consist of four specialists with



ANNEX 2
Page 6
extensive experience in earth moving operations who would advise on the
p:Lanning of machine operations, the deployment of machines, and the pre-
paration of maintenance schedules. The advisors would spend most of their
tiLme in the field at the various Project areas. Since several local firms
have had considerable experience with earth-moving machinery, the advisors
should be available from within the country.
February 11, 1972



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2-1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SCHEMES IN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 1973 - 1975
Command
Name of the Scheme          District(s)            Area
(ha)
Purna                 Nanded and Parbhani       61,538
Bor                   Wardha                     13,360
Ghod                  Poona and Ahmednagar      25,263
Nalganga              Buldhana                    8,747
Gangapur              Nasik                      16,503
Girna                 Jalgaon                   50,202
TOTAL      175,613
February 11, 1972



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2-2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Land Development Cost Phasing1/
(RB '000)
1972         1973          1974         Total
Purna                 706         9,696         9,696        20,098
Bor                   347         3,848         3,848         8,043
Ghod                  933         4,823         4,823        10,579
Nalganga              343         1,039         1,039         2,421
Gangapur              300           301           301           902
Girna                 965         1,546         1,546         4,057
TOTAL         3 594         21 253        21,253       46,100
February 11, 1972
1 /   Costs include depreciation on earth-moving equipment.



I li D I A
AMA-RASTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LAND DEMLOPMENT AREA 1/ AND COST ESTIMIATES PY ACTIVITY
;Jater Courses
and Drains 2J      BuPuding 2/         Grading                 Levelling               TOTAL
Area      Cost      Area        Cost    Area         Cost       Area        Cost       Area      Cost
(ha)    (RsI 0)   (ha)    (Rs'IOO)   (ha)          (Rs)0'0)    (ha)    (Rs,000)        (ha)   (Rs'00O)
Purna                  [41,751   1,525     10,799      2,750   11,691        7,015      5,873       8,810    70,114    20,100
Bor                    13,355      730       6,425        77T    3,892       2,335      2,802       4,203    26,474       8,042
Ghod                   15,616   1,653      19,170      3,714    8,059        4,835        251         376    43,096    10,578
Nalganga                6,826      746       4,086     1,033       206         12h        3[5         518    11,[63       2,421
Gangapur               13,246      871         891         31                                                14,137         902
Girna                  24,505   2,523        5,813     1,534        _          __         __          __      30,318     4,057
TOTAL    115,299   8,048       47,184      9,836   23,848      14,309      9,271      13,907   195,602    46,100
1/ Since all activities are not implemented on every unit of land to be developed, the area totals are not related
to the command areas given in Appendix 2-1.
2/  Category covers multiple activities, not all of which are inplemented on the total area indicated.
On-costs of 10% have been included
December 6, 1971                                                                                                                i x
' ._
NA






ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
Organization and Management
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was established on
July 1, 1963, with the objectives of providing medium- and long-term fi-
nance to agricultural credit institutions and, at the same time, directing
and guiding such institutions toward a development oriented approach in
their operations.
2.        ARC's shareholders include the Reserve Bank of India (RBI),
central and state-level land development and mortgage banks and coopera-
tive banks and other institutions (scheduled banks, the Life Insurance
Corporation of India, insurance and investment companies, and others ap-
proved by the Government of India). Of the initial 5,000 shares issued,
the law provided that RBI shall subscribe to at least 50%, the central
land mortgage banks and state cooperative banks to no more than 30%, and
other institutions to no more than 20% and future issues of shares would
be allocated in the same proportion. The initial shares issued were
guaranteed a dividend of 4-1/4% per annum.
3.        ARC's management is vested in a Board of Directors of nine mem-
bers, three of whom are elected and the rest nominated. Three directors
represent RBI (a Deputy-Governor is Chairman of the Board), three the
Government of India (at present the Secretary, Department of Agriculture,
and the Additional Secretary, Department of Cooperation of the Ministry
of Agriculture and a Joint Secretary, Department of Banking of the Ministry
of Finance), and three directors are elected one each by the central land
development banks, by the state cooperative banks, and by the Life Insurance
Corporation of India, scheduled banks, and other insurance and financing
institutions.
4.        The Managing Director is the chief executive officer and is
assisted by a managerial staff of nearly 90 (as of June 1971) of whom
65 are based at ARC's head office. Until early 1970, ARC did not employ
any specialists, instead relying on a panel of consultants for technical
advice in appraisal and supervision work. To supplement consultants'
advice, ARC has established a Technical Division which, as of June 1971
comprised three agricultural specialists and an agricultural economist and
to which ARC proposes to make further appointments. With the increasing
volume of lending, ARC recognizes the need to build up its staff at all
levels and has prepared a staff development plan to cover the period to
the end of 1973.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
ARC's head office is in Bombay.  It has 13 regional offices
.Amedabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Calcutta, Chandigarh,
Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kanpur, Madras, New Delhi, Patna, and Trivandrum) which
asEsist banks and State Governments in formulating agricultural development
projects for financing, clarify ARC's policies and procedures when required,
undertake pre-appraisal of projects submitted and supervise general execution
of projects under ARC financing. About 25 managerial staff are employed in
the Regional Offices. -
6.        In general, ARC's charter provides that it shall be guided by
such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as GOI
may, after consulting RBI, give in writing. ARC can extend financial as-
sistance only to central or state-level land development banks, state co-
opoerative banks, and scheduled banks: in exceptional cases, and with RBI
approval, it can also lend directly to a primary cooperative at the farm
levfel. Refinance is provided through purchases of special debentures
floated by central or state-level land development banks and through loans
to state cooperative banks and scheduled banks.
7.        Until June 1966, it was not normally ARC's policy to refinance
construction and energization of wells by individuals unless the outlay
inlvolved was large and development was envisaged through a cooperative
society organized for the purpose. In July 1966, however, ARC not only
removed this restriction, but also circulated a model scheme for minor
irrigation development by farmers in compact areas. Thus, began ARC's
poLicy of financing individual farmers on the basis of project models.
8.        At the beginning, ARC's policy was to finance no more than 75%
of a project, leaving the balance to be contributed by State Governments.
However, the generally strained resources position of most State Govern-
ments considerably restricted the extent to which land development banks
could avail themselves of refinance facilities from ARC. Accordingly,
to stimulate investments in minor irrigation especially, ARC increased
its support of such investments to 90%, beginning with all projects sanc-
tioned in 1967/68.
9.        Special debentures purchased by ARC from central land development
banks must be guaranteed by the State Government concerned; in addition,
debentures are backed by a charge on all mortgages resulting from loans
refinanced under the issue. In the case of debentures, ARC requires that
collections from farmers be lodged in a sinking fund. The sinking fund is
invested in GOI securities and debentures of other land development banks.
It may also be used to repurchase the land development bank's own debentures.
Since from the view point of financial returns, the sinking fund arrangements
do not benefit a land development bank as issuer of debentures, ARC has
decided that repayments of its refinances under IDA supported projects
should approximately match those of ultimate borrowers to lending banks.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
10.       ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically feasible, financially justified, and are within a reasonably
compact area for facility of loan evaluation and supervision. The scheme
can involve just one farmer, a group of farmers, or an association of
farmers. Preference, however, is given to schemes involving a large number
of farmers.
11.       Technical evaluation of schemes is carried out by consultants
drawn from a panel approved by the Government of India. Services of the
Central Ground Water Board (formerly the Exploratory Tubewells Organization),
the Geological Survey of India and the various commodity boards are also
used and ARC prescribes the terms of reference in every case. Some important
points examined in the case of schemes for minor irrigation include, an
estimate of the quantum of water proposed to be tapped, annual water re-
charge, annual water draft, taking into account the existing and proposed
wells, and the type of pump sets needed. With the establishment of its own
Technical Division, increasing back-up support is now available from ARC's
own specialist staff which will provide a foundation of technical expertise
for scheme appraisal and supervision throughout India.
12.       Economic evaluation of schemes is performed by ARC staff.  Some
of the important aspects appraised include cost estimates, the suitability
of the cropping pattern recommended, inputs available for development,
farmer's repayment capacity, efficiency of the project executing agency, ar-
rangements for the provision of short-term credits and marketing arrangements.
Preappraisal is done generally by regional offices, but final evaluation is
made in Bombay.
13.       Periods of refinance are determined after a study of the repayment
capacity of farmers based on farm models. Refinance terms for medium-term
projects are 3 to 5 years and for long-term projects are noa generally 12
to 15 years.
14.       With effect from November 1970 ARC's general lending rate was
raised from 6 to 6-1/2% per annum. Scheduled banks are required to charge
their borrowers no more than an additional 2-1/2% per annum and while land
development (and mortgage) banks are not bound by the same restrIction,
they nevertheless generally follow the same interest mark-up and none
exceeds it. ARC collects a commitment charge of 1/3 of 1% on the amount
not used in any one year according to a schedule of expected withdrawals
approved for a scheme.
Lending (Refinancing) Operations
15.       The following table shows the progress in ARC's lending (less
subsequent cancellations) during the eight years of its existence:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Number of
Schemes            Total Scheme        ARC
Year             Approved               Costs         Commitment
Rs M            Rs M
1963/64              3                  27.20            24.50
1964/65             10                 206.00           168.80
1965/66             24                  179.60          141.80
1966/67             15                  105.30           85.30
1967/68             89                 681.60          586.40
1968/69            108                 792.10          693.20
1969/70            142                 927.80           709.20
1970/71            100                 621.50          539.20
491               3,541.10        2,948.40
Less reductions or
withdrawals                  33                 611.10          461.80
458               2.930.00        2,486.60
16.       During the initial years, ARC transacted very little business
duie to the need for laying the groundwork and bases for its operations
mid for building its staff. An important deterrent, however, was ARC's
policy, at the time, of refinancing only projects in which development
was envisaged through a cooperative society organized for the purpose.
In June 1966, this restriction was removed; furthermore, ARC agreed to
refinance up to 90% of loans for minor irrigation, against 75% previously.
Thus, during the last three years, projects approved for refinancing were
more than six times the number during the first four years.
17.       As may be expected, most of the schemes sanctioned were for
pirojects financed by land development or mortage banks:
ARC Commitment
Rs M          % of Total
(a)  Land development banks               2,223.70           89.4
(b)  State cooperative banks                 114.00           4.6
(c)  Scheduled commercial banks              148.90           6.0
Total                     2,486.60          100.0
18.       About 85% of the cost of schemes approved for refinance were
for minor irrigation and land development:



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Total ARC
Schemes Approved          Commitment
x of                 % of
Number        Total    RS M        Total
(a)  Minor irrigation            237          51.7  1,694.80      68.2
(b)  Land development             43           9.4    434.80       17.5
(c)  Tractor & Power Tillers    10             2.2      47.10       1.8
(d)  Soil conservation             2            .4      19.50       0.8
(e)  Plantations                 138          30.1    189.70        7.6
(f)  Poultry                       7           1.6       4.80       0.2
(g)  Fisheries                    10           2.2      37.60       1.5
(h)  Dairying                      5           1.1      13.80       0.6
ti)  Storage                       6           1.3      45.10       1.8
Total            458         100.0  21486.60    100.0
Source of Funds
19.       Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the following
sources:  (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI; (b)
issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings
from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI,
the State Government, and local authorities for periods not less than 12
months. Total borrowings and deposits received may not exceed 20 times
the sum of ARC's capital and surplus reserves.
20.       ARC's borrowings and receipts of deposits during the eight years
of its existence are summarized as follows:
Borrowings              Deposits
Year                    GOI      Market      RBI      Total   Received
1963/64                50.00                          50.00       -
1964/65                             -                   -        1.13
1965/66                  -         -          -         -        1.25
1966/67                             -                   -        1.26
1967/68                30.00       -          -       30.00      1.25
1968/69               177.50       -          -      177.50      1.26
1969/70               190.00      109.38      -      299.38      1.25
1970/71               220.00       85.25    75.20  380.45        1.25
Total                 667.50       194.63    75.20  937.33       8.65
Borrowings from GOI, none of which as of June 30, 1971 included IDA funds,
have been on the following terms:



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Rs M            Interest P.A.             Repayment
50.00              None              30 years with 15-year grace
30.00              5-1/2             At end of 15 years
100.00              5-1/2             At end of 15 years
487.50              5                 At end of 9 years
With effect from June 1, 1971, GOI interest rates to ARC have been increased
by 1/2% per annum and are now therefore 5-1/2% on loans up to 10 years and
6% on loans with longer maturities. Since August 1968, ARC has been allowed
a rebate of 1/4% on timely payments of interest on GOI borrowings. The two
market issues of ARC bonds are both dated 1982 and are at an interest rate
of 5-3/4%.  Short-term borrowings from RBI are at bank rate, presently 6%
per annum.  The special deposits represent dividends payable on ARC's shares
held by RBI which, under the law, must be held by ARC as special deposits.
No interest is paid on them.
21.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results since its
establishment until 1970/71 is given in Appendix 3-1 and is summarized
below (in Rs million):
Net
Income    Statutory  Surplus
Gross    Total      Net   Income   Before    Dividend       or
Year      Income  Expenses  Income    Tax   Dividends  Liability  Deficit
1963/64    3.75      0.30      3.45    1.80      1.65        1.91      -0.26
1964/65    4.00      0.39     3.61    1.76       1.85        2.13      -0.28
1965/66    4.35      0.48      3.87    2.27      1.60        2.13      -0.53
1966/67    4.98      0.61     4.36    2.40       1.97        2.13      -0.16
1967/68    6.00      1.67     4.33    2.38       1.95        2.13      -0.18
1968/69   11.04      6.29     4.75    2.61       2.14        2.13       0.01
1969/70   27.28    20.55      6.75    3.70       3.05        2.13       0.92
1970/71   42.66    35.72      6.94    3.44      3.50         2.13       1.37
22.       In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mostly from interest on investments. Beginning 1966/67, this pattern
changed when ARC began to expand rapidly its refinancing operations (para.
15). In 1970/71 interest received from loans and debentures represented
94% of total income received.
23.       Benefitting from cost-free funds available to it during the
first four years of its existence, ARC's main items of expense at the
time was salaries and employee benefits. Needing more funds for its ex-
panded operation, interest paid on borrowed money has since 1967/68 been
an important item of expenses. In 1970/71 interest paid on borrowings
and salaries and employee benefits were 86% and 10%, respectively, of
total expenses.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
24.       Until 1968/69 net income after taxes had not been sufficient
to meet the statutory dividend liability of 4-1/4% payable annually to
ARC's initial shareholders (para. 2) and the annual deficiency had to
be made good by GOI in accordance with its guarantee under the law. ARC
will have to reimburse these amounts out of future profits. In 1968/69
however, profits were sufficient to meet the statutory dividend and leave
ARC with a small surplus and this position has significantly improved in
the subsequent two years. The scale of future profits will largely depend
on ARC's future borrowing rates and the extent to which it has to borrow
from the market at higher rates than it has hitherto had to pay GOI. To
help offset this, steps are now being taken to enable ARC to borrow from
the National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations) Fund of RBI at
concessional rates which, although not yet fixed, might be at about 4-1/4%
per annum. This would broadly enable ARC to maintain its interest margin.
For illustrative purposes, a five-year projection of ARC's future operating
results (Appendix 3-2) assumes an overall lending rate of 6-1/2%; it does
not take into account the probability of ARC borrowing at lower rates from
the RBI Fund.
25.       ARC is in good financial condition (Appendix 3-3).  Its equity
position as of June 30, 1971, is unimpaired by losses and its assets were
in GOI securities and debentures of land development banks, which are
guaranteed by State Governments. A five-year projection of ARC's financial
condition is given in Appendix 3-4.
26.       In accordance with its charter, ARC's accounts are audited
annually by accountants duly qualified under the all India Companies Act
of 1956 (the present auditors are Messrs. K. S. Aiyar and Co.). Under the
same Charter, GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of India
to examine and report on the accounts of ARC. To date, GOI has not found
the need to exercise this power.
February 11, 1972






I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
Condensed Statements of Net Income
1964/65 to 1970/71
1964/65                1965/66                1966/67              1967/68                 1968/69                1969/70                 1970/71
Rs M      % Of         RsM       % of         Rs M      % of       Rs M       % of        Rs M       % of         Rs M       % of        Rs M       % of
Total                  Total                  Total                Total                   Total                  Total                  Total
Income                 Income                 Income               Income                  Income                 Income                  Income
INCOME
Interest Received on Loans and
Debentures                                 __        --          1.09       25.1        3.06       61.3      4.83       80.5         10.20      92.4        24.09      88.31        40.12     94.1
Interest and Other Income on Investments3.99       100.0         3.25      74.9         1.92       38.7      1.17       19.5         J9. 84      7.6         3.18      11.69         2.54      5.9
Total Income                         3.99     100.0         4.34     100.0         4.98      100.0      6.00      100.0         11.04    100.0         27.27    100.00        42.66    100.0
EXPENSES
Interest Paid                              --        --           --         --          --         --       0.46        7.8         4.42      40.0         17.07      62.60        30.80     72.2
Salaries, Allowances, Consultants'
Fees, and Employee Benefits               0.27        770        0.36        8.4        0.47        9.5      0.91       15.2          1.43      13.0          2.04      7.48         3.40       8.0
General and Administrative Expenses       0.10        2.6        0.11        2.6        0.13        2.6      0.29        4.8          0.43       3.9         1.42       5.21         1.48       3.6
Depreciation of Assets                    0.01       0.1         0.01        0.1        0.01        0.1      0.01        0.1          0.01       0.1         0.02       0.07         0.04       0.1
Total Expenses                       0.38       9.7         0.48      11.1         0.61       12.2      1.67       27.9          6.29     57.0         20.55      75.36        35.72     83.7
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                        3.61       90.3        3.86       88.9         4.37      87.8       4.33       72.0         4.75      43.0          6.72      24.64        6.94      16.3
Taxes Paid or Payable                     1.76      44.1         2.27       52.2         2.40      48.3       2.38      39.6          2.61      23.7          3.70     13.56         3.44       8.1
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES                         1.85       46.2         1.59      36.7         1.97      39.5       1.95       32.4          2.14     19.3          3.02      11.08         3.50      8.2
December 6, 1971
Wtm






INDIA
MAHIARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
At End of Fiscal Years Indicated
1964/65               1965/66                   1966/67                1967/68                1968/69                   1969/70                   1970/71
Rs M                    Change from               Change from            Change from             Change from              Change from               Change from
RB M  Previous Date       Es M  Previous Date   Rs M  Previous Date   Rs M  Previous Date         Rs M  Previous Date       Rs M  Previous Date
ASSETS
Cash on Rand and in Banks                   0.16          0.02       (0.15)          0.06       0.04        0.09       0.03        0.06       (0.03)         0.04       (0.02)      100.01       99.97
Investments                                99.09         55.21      (43.88)         35.79     (19.42)       8.40     (27.39)       5.14       (3.26)       24.99        19.85        00.20      (24.79)
Loans                                       __            1.47        1.47           3.03       1.56        7.35       4.32       25.49       18.14        42.93        17.44        76.95       34.02
Debentures Purchased                        4.50         47.53       43.03          66.73      19.20      119.04      52.31      278.55      159.51       546.04       267.49       812.39      266.35
Other Assets                                1.02          2.34        1.33          3.38        1.04        6.46       3.08       13.58       7.12         17.31         3.73        27.30        9.99
Total Assets                         104.77        106.57       1.80         108.99        2.42     141.34       32.35     322.82      181.48        631.31       308.49    1,016.85      385.54
LIBILITIES AND CAPITAL EQUITY
Loans from Government of
India and Others                           50.00         50.00         __          50.00                  80.00       30.00      257.50     177.50        556.88       299.38 1/   862.13      305.25 2/
Special Deposits                            1.13          2.39        1.26          3.64        1.26       4.90        1.26        6.15       1.25          7.40         1.25         8.65       1.25
Other Liabilities                           3.64          4.18       0.54           5.35        1.16       6.44        1.09        9.16       2.72         16.94         7.78        93.77      77.64 3/
Total Liabilities                     54.77         56.57       1.80          58.99        2.42      91.34       32.35     272.81      181.47        581.22       308.41       964.55     384.14
Capital - Paid-up                          50.00         S0.00        __           50.00          _       50.00                  50.00                     50.00                     50.00
Reserves and Surplus                          N            N           N             N           N          N           N          0.01       0.01          0.09         0.08         2.30        1.40
Total Capital Equity                  50.00        50.00         N            50.00        N         50.00         N        50.01        0.01         50.09         0.08       52.30        1.40
Total Liabilities and
Capital Equityies4.7                              106.57        1.80         108.99       2.42        141.34     32.35     322.82      181.48        631.31       308.49                  385.54 
Note   1/  Includes Rs 110 million public bond issue
2/ Includes Rs 85 million public bond issue
3/  Includes Rs 75 million short-tnr  borrowings from RBI
N = Negligible
December 6, 1971



IND IA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
As of Dates Indicated
June 30, 1972                       June 30. 1973                        June 30. 1974                         June 30. 1975
Rs M         Change from 1/         Rs M          Change from            Rs M          Change from             Rs M         Change from
Previous Date                        Previous Date                       Previous Date                         Previous Date
ASSETS
Cash on hand and in Banks                             0.10            (99.91)              0.15              0.05               0.15              --                 0.20              0.05
Investments                                           5.00              4.80               5.00               --                5.00              --                 5.00               --
Loans to Commercial Banks:
IDA Projects 2/                                50.00             50.00             220.00            170.00             250.00             30.00             230.00             (20.00)
Others                                        100.00             23.05             160.00             60.00             200.00             40.00             250.00              50.00
Lending to LMBs for IDA Projects 2/                 256.00            256.00             835.00            479.00             990.00            155.00             905.00            (85.00)
LNB Debentures                                    1,090.00            277.61           1,100.00            110.00           1,400.00            300.00           1,900.00            500.00
Other Assets                                         19.90             (7.40)             25.00              5.10              30.00              5.00              35.00              5.00
1,521.00            504.15          2,345.15             824.15          2,875.15            530.00           3,325.20             450.05
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Loans from GOI (IDA Funds) 2/                       262.00            262.00             871.00            509.00           1,020.00            149.00           1,120.00
Other Loans from GOI and Other Sources            1,130.00            267.87           1,286.00            256.00           1,653.00            367.00           1,990.00            437.00
Other Liabilities                                    24.78            (77.64)             30.10              5.32              33.47              3.37              35.89              2.42
1,416.78            452.23          2,187.10             770.32          2,706.47            519.37           3,145.89             439.42
Capital Paid-up                                     100.00             50.00             150.00             50.00             150.00               --              150.00               --
Reserves:
At Beginning of Year                             2.30               --                2.42               --               8.05                --               18.68               --
Projected Net Income                             6.17               --              12.00                --              17.00                --               17.00               --
Total Available                                  8.47               --               14.42               --              25.05                --              35.68                --
Mandatory Dividend Due 3/                        4.25                                 6.37               --                6.37               --                6.37               --
At End of Year                                   4.22              1.92               8.05              3.83             18.68             10.63               29.31             10.63
Total Capital Equity                                104.22             51.92             158.05             53.83             168.68             10.63             179.31             10.63
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                      1,521.00            504.15           2 345.15            824.15           26875.15            530.00           3,325.20            450.05
1/  See Appendix 3-3
2/  Gujurat, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Mysore, and Maharashtra Projects.                                                                                                                '
3/  Although mandatory dividend of 4 1/4% only applies to the initial Rs 50 million equiity capital, this rate of dividend has been included on all issued equity capital
in the above table.
December 6, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Maharastra State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd.
and Primary Land Development Banks
A. The Structure of the Maharashtra Land Development Bank System
1.        The land development banking system in Maharashtra is federal in
character with the Primary Banks, which operate at the district level,
federated into Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB)
at the apex level. Although each of the Primary Banks is theoretically
independent, LDB has the power to control their operations, as it is the
only permitted source of their borrowing and can withhold funds from any
Primary which does not meet its requirements.
2.        For all practical purposes, therefore, LDB and its federated
Primary Banks can be considered as a single entity with an operational
relationship similar to that of a bank head office to its branches. The
Primaries (under LDB direction and guidance) are responsible for making loans
to their members, such lending being wholly refinanced by LDB. As of June 30,
1970 the 26 Primary Land Development Banks had a total membership of about
570,000.
3.        In the paragraphs immediately following, the operations of LDB and
the Primary Banks are considered separately in regard to their organization,
management and resources. Their lending procedures and operations, being
closely integrated, are considered together in the succeeding sections.
B. Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd (LDB)
Organization
4.        LDB was registered in December 1935 and its operations originally
covered areas which now form parts of the States of Gujarat and Mysore.
The remaining outstanding loans in Mysore were transferred to the Mysore
Central Cooperative Land Development Bank in 1970, and those in Gujarat
to the Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank in 1971.
5.        LDB's head office is in Bombay, the State capital, and it also
controls Primary Bank operations through regional offices based in the
divisional headquarters of Bombay, Poona, Aurangabad and Nagpur.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Board and Management
6.        LDB is regulated by the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act of
1960. Under the General Body, with powers equivalent to an annual general
meeting of shareholders in a joint stock company, LDB's affairs are directed
by a board which may not exceed 40 and which, as of June 30, 1971 had 30
members. These comprised 20 members elected by the Primary Banks, 5 repre-
senting non-borrowing shareholders and 5 members ex-officio (the Commissioner
aad the Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies, the Joint Director of
Agriculture, the Managing Director of the State Cooperative Bank and the
Managing Director of LDB itself). To facilitate administration, most of the
Board's power devolves to four committees.
7.        The Managing Director is LDB's chief executive officer, the present
incumbent being on secondment from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Under
him is the Manager, on secondment from the State Cooperative Department, and
the Chief Technical Officer who recently assumed responsibility for the
control of technical staff. While the three appointments were made from
outside specifically to strengthen LDB's management, it would be desirable
for staff continuity and morale that consideration in future be given to
training members of LDB's own staff to fill at least one of these senior
positions in due course. LDB has a total staff of 450 of whom 40 are of
managerial status; 18 are qualified in engineering or agriculture and these
form the technical cell. In addition, the Primary Banks together employ a
further 32 qualified technical staff.
8.        As in the case of similar banks elsewhere in India, LDB has
responded quickly to the idea that it should have sufficient qualified
technical staff to help prepare development schemes, to assess the reliability
of appraisals made by consultants or staff of Government's technical depart-
ments and generally advise management on technical matters. Now there is a
danger that such technical staff will become too large and, with ill-defined
objectives, will tend to become involved in basic technical appraisal work
which properly should remain the responsibility of the State Government. At
the same time it is evident that too many of the schemes submitted by the
Primaries to LDB for approval (i.e. for loans of over Rs 10,000 each) are
formally approved without technical review. It is therefore important that
LDB should give careful attention to the functions of both its own and the
Primaries' technical staff and organize their activities in such a manner
that duplication is avoided and that sound technical advice can be given on
schemes which have to be approved by LDB.
Source of Funds
9..       As an apex organization, LDB's share capital is contributed by the
Primary Banks (at the rate of 5% of borrowings from LDB) and the State
Government, the proportions being subject to periodic review by RBI. As of
Jime 30, 1971 LDB's total subscribed capital was Rs 89 million (against
Rs 100 million authorized), of which the State Government's contribution was
Rs 11 million or about 12%.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       In addition to the short-term finance provided by the Maharashtra
State Cooperative Bank (which is essentially a short-term lending institution),
LDB's borrowings derive from the issue of debentures. These are guaranteed
by the State Government as to the payment of interest and repayment of
principal and are secured by the mortgages financed from the proceeds of a
particular debenture issue. As in the case of similar banks elsewhere in
India, LDB floats three types of debentures:
(a) Ordinary or Regular Debentures. These debentures area purchased
mainly by various institutions such as the RII, the Life Insurance
Corporation in India, the State Bank of India, land development
banks in other states (from their sinking funds) and the State
Government, the balance being sold on the open market. In 1969/70
the average cost of borrowing on ten- and fifteen-year debentures
was 6.1% per annum and the interest rate on such government
guaranteed borrowings was expected to increase by 1/4% during
1970/71.
(b) Rural Debentures These are sold only to individuals since
their purpose is to encourage the mobilization of local savings.
To stimulate their sale, RBI subscribes in the ratio of eight to
every seven rural debentures sold to private persons and receives
interest at 1% less than the regular rate. Hitherto, as
government guaranteed securities, the interest rate was limited
to a maximum of 6-1/4% per annum but early in 1971 the RBI agreed
to permit land mortgage/development banks to issue bonds on
their own security (i.e. without Government guarantee) without
interest rate restriction. At the same time the RBI has
announced that in future land mortgage/development banks must
issue rural debentures to the extent of a prescribed proportion
of their ordinary debenture programs or forfeit a part of the
official support for these programs. In 1970/71 the prescribed
amount of rural debentures is 2-1/2% of the ordinary program,
increasing to 5% in 1971/72.
(c) Special Debentures. These debentures are issued for financing
agricultural projects approved by the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation (ARC). They are subscribed by ARC and the State
Government in proportions determined by ARC which are currently
9:1 for minor irrigation schemes and 3:1 for other schemes.
Interest paid on these debentures is also decided by ARC and the
present rate is 6-1/2% per annum.
LDB's borrowing may not exceed 20 times paid-up share capital and reserves.
11.       The following table shows the growth of LDB's outstanding debenture
borrowings as of the dates shown (Rs million):



ANNEX 4
Page 4
June 30, 1969        June 30, 1970         June 30, 1971
Ordinary Debentures        924.9               1,126.0               1,319.6
]Rural Debentures           43.9                  45.4                  43.9
Special Debentures          21.1                  59.8                  84.9
Total                989.9                1,231.2              1,448.4
Significant in the above table are the relatively small amounts raised through
rural debentures (LDB's quota in 1970-71 is Rs 5.9 million). It is estimated
1:hat as of June 30, 1971, farmers' direct contribution to the LDB system
l:hrough rural debentures and share-holdings was about Rs 177 million. The
above table also shows that ARC's contribution to LDB financing (through
t:he special debentures) has not been significant to date, and it has there-
iore had relatively little influence on LDB policies and procedures.
C. Primary Land Development Banks
Clrganization and Management
12.       Unlike most other land development bank systems in India, the
P'rimary Banks in Maharashtra are organized on a district basis and not on the
smaller administrative unit of a taluk (tehsil). There are thus only 27 Primary
Banks in the State and, although they operate through branches in the taluks
(as of June 30, 1970 there were a total of 252 branches), the large operating
unit has helped develop a stronger financial base at the Primary level.
13.       Membership in the Primaries is of two types.  First, the borrowing
(or A Class) membership is open to individuals and cooperatives (who must be
landowners) and second, the associate (or B Class) membership which exists
to provide support for the movement without borrowing rights. As of June 30,
1970 total membership was 568,000 of which 500,000 comprised A class members.
14.       The direction and management of eacb Irimary follows the LDB pattern
ulth overall control vested in the general meeting, and direction exercised
by a board of elected members. The manager of each Primary is appointed by
the Board and their quality is variable. As part of the general need to
improve the quality of management, it would be desirable that the LDB system
in Maharashtra follow the practice adopted in other states of requiring the
managers of Primaries to be on the regular staff of the apex bank and
therefore acceptable to it.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
15.       The Primaries main independent functions are the approval of loans
(of up to Rs 10,000 without further authority), the appointment of staff and
the declaration of dividends. Their main activities are the appraisal of
loan applications, disbursement of approved loans and control of utilization.
16.       Three categories of staff are involved in the Primaries' work.
First there is the Bank's own supervisory staff who are mainly concerned with
the processing of loan applications and the administration of disbursements.
Second is the staff of the State Government's technical departments (e.g.
agriculture and public works) who carry out the technical evaluation of
individual schemes. Third is the Government's Cooperative Department staff
who exercise the statutory audit and other regulatory functions and are to
some extent concerned with land titles. Because of the close involvement of
Government staff, the District Collector is concerned with coordinating the
various activities of the Primary Bank.
Sources of Funds
17.       The Primaries' main sources of funds are members' share capital,
undistributed profits and loans from LDB. Each Primary Bank has its own
share capital and borrowers are required to hold share capital to the extent
of 10% of the value of their loans. Similarly, Primaries must invest in
LDB shares to the extent of 5% of their borrowings therefrom. The share
capital contribution required from members and the 5% retained by the Primary
Banks constitute the highest levels existing among the land mortgage/develop-
ment banks in India, the more usual practice being a total 5 or 6% share
capital requirement of which all but 1% is usually re-invested in the apex
bank. As a result of the equity arrangements in Maharashtra, the Primary
Banks have relatively large resources of their own and this in turn has made
them more independent of LDB. It has also enabled the Primaries to maintain
a a higher level of repayments to the apex bank than that of ultimate
borrowers to them (para 26).
D. Overall Lending Procedures and Operations
Loan Purposes
18.       The Primary Banks lend for a wide range of agricultural purposes
on a medium- and long-term basis. These purposes include:
(a) The construction, improvement and major repair of
minor irrigation works.
(b) Land drainage, reclamation and improvement.
(c) Construction of farm buildings (excluding housing).
(d) Purchase of farm machinery including tractors and implements.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(e) Purchase of land occupancy rights and redemption of mortgages.
(f) Such other purposes as the Board may determine to be for land
improvement or agricultural production.
19.       Because of the shortage of funds, LDB has laid down a maximum loan
limit of Rs 20,000 for a well and Rs 45,000 for farm mechanization. In the
case of well investments, however, the maximum amount can be increased without
limit providing the appraising technical officer certifies that this would
be justified.
I.ending Procedures
20.       Applications for a loan have to be made to the Primary Bank of
which the applicant is a member and are registered in chronological order.
Apart from the technical feasibility of the proposed investment, the loan
aippraisal consists essentially of an assessment of the prospective borrower's
repayment capacity, a valuation of his land and an examination of his land
title (the latter is established by a public inquiry conducted by an officer
of the State Cooperative Department).
21.       Land is required as security on all loans and, hitherto, LDB has
established the land value on the traditional basis of taking a multiple of
the annual land revenue payable. In the case of investments in minor
irrigation and farm mechanization, the multiple is five hundred and, in
addition, the cost of the proposed investment is added; for other investment
purposes the multiple is 300. Because the system is complicated and is
based on an outdated land revenue assessment, ARC is, as a matter of general
policy, requiring land mortgage/development banks to value land at its
post-development worth which can be done by taking the sale price of com-
parable land in the area. It is recommended that this procedure be adopted
in Maharashtra. At present the loan limit is 50% of the value of land
offered as security, but this criterion could be an unreasonable constraint
in the case of farmers with small holdings. Therefore, consideration should
be given to increasing the limit to 75% of the developed value of land.
22.       On completion of the appraisal procedures, the application is
submitted to the managing committee of the Primary Bank which may approve
1oDans up to Rs 10,000 without further reference; above this amount but below
Rs 20,000 loans have to be authorized by LDB 's regional committee and for
Rs 20,000 and above by LDB's head office. When a loan has been appraised,
d isbursements are made to the third parties concerned in the case of the pur-
chlase of land, tractors or machinery or of expenditures for land development
or well drilling by contractors; loans for other purposes are disbursed
in installments after confirmation of proper utilization has been obtained.
ALL payments are made by checks drawn on the bankers of the Primaries, and
borrowers' investments are inspected after disbursement. LDB subsequently



ANNEX 4
Page 7
advances loans to the Primaries against the security of mortgages collected
by them, LDB's loan terms matching those of the Primaries' lending to their
members.
Lending Terms and Interest Rates
23.       As for similar banks elsewhere in India, a borrower's share contrib-
ution to his Primary in effect represents his down payment against a loan.
With the equity contribution at 10%, farmers in Maharashtra are thus in this
respect making a greater contribution to the mobilization of local resources
than elsewhere in India. Loan terms are a maximum of 15 years for soil
conservation and land development schemes, 13 years for lift irrigation
schemes and 12 years for dugwells. The relatively low discharge from many
dugwells has been advanced as an argument in favor of long maturities on loans
for this type of investment. However, adherence to sound technical criteria
would eliminate the need for long repayment terms and would reduce the
risk of LDB financing sub-economic wells.
24.       In January 1967, the State Government discontinued the payment of
interest subsidies on various types of loans amounting to about 3% per annum,
though the subsidy is still paid to LDB on loans made before that date. The
present lending rate from the Primaries to individual farmers is 9% per
annum on all investments. LDB refinances the Primaries at 7-1/4% per annum
providing them with a substantial margin of 1-3/4% and leaving LDB with a
margin of just over 1%. The latter is inadequate to meet the cost of an
increasing staff and also provide reasonable profits. Furthermore, the
lending rate of 9% does not, in the present India conditions, permit a
worthwhile mobilization of rural savings.
Lending Operations
25.       LDB's loan portfolio has risen sharply over the last three years,
from Rs 672 million as at June 30, 1967 to Rs 850 million the following year
and Rs. 1,042 million as at June 30, 1970, giving it the largest portfolio
of any land mortgage/development bank in India. About 85% of LDB's lending
has been for minor irrigation investments or connected purposes; lending
for farm mechanization has been small and represents only 2% of the total.
The Primary Banks are currently making about 90,000 loans annually.
E. Overall Operational Results
Repayment Arrears
26.       The Maharashtra LDB system has for many years had a poor record
of loan repayments. The following table shows the arrears by amount and also
as a percentage of total collections due (principal and interest) from
ultimate borrowers to the Primary Banks and from the Primary Banks to LDB
over the last 10 years.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Arrears to Primaries                     Arrears to LDB
Year      Rs M             % of total due           Rs M     % of total due
1960-61   n.a.                  n.a.                2.4            30
1961-62    6.1                   62                  3.2           30
1962-63    8.1                   48                 3.0            19
1963-64   14.0                   43                 5.0            19
1964-65   19.9                   48                 5.3            13
1965-66   35.2                   45                 12.5           21
1966-67   48.4                   45                20.9           25
1967-68   38.7                   28                 9.6             9
1968-69   38.1                   24                 8.9             7
1969-70   57.0                   30                14.6             9
1970-71  145.5                   53                68.3            34
27.       The above table shows the following:
(a)  Although there had been a general improvement in recent years,
the position deteriorated again from 1969/70 and in 1970/71 overdues
assumed serious propertions. In part this situation is attributable
to severe drought conditions which prevailed in Maharashtra during
1970/71 (see Appendix 4-1) but other arrears bave continued to rise.
(b) Primary Banks hitherto have been able to achieve a much higher
level of repayments to LDB than their own recoveries from ul-
timate borrowers. This has been possible because of the mag-
nitude of the Primaries' own resources which they have in part
utilized to meet obligations to LDB. However, the crop losses
in 1970-71 had a strong effect at this level also, resulting
in overdues of 34%.
28.       Within the 53% average arrears position of the Primary Banks at
Jute 30, 1971, 14 of the 26 Banks had overdues of more than 50%, and all but
one of the 21 Banks which fall within areas of proposed Project lending had
overdues of more than 25%. A number of reasons have been given for this
situation, and although it is not possible to attribute varying degrees
of responsibility, the following have all contributed to some extent:



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(a) Inadequate lending practices in the past based on low technical
criteria and weak appraisals. This has applied particularly to
dugwells with the result that many wells have failed to
discharge adequate water to provide the expected incremental
income. It has to be emphasized that for such wells to be
bankable they must be based on criteria which will ensure a
sufficient discharge to meet irrigation requirements through
both kharif and rabi seasons annually. The proposal widely
discussed in Maharashtra that such wells should have a low
discharge adequate only as an insurance against inadequate
rainfall in kharif and providing sufficient water for rabi
in perhaps 7 years out of 10 is not an acceptable proposition
for a credit project. If adopted it would also result in
over-investment in wells.
(b) Until 1967 LDB imposed loan limits on well investments which
resulted in many investments remaining unfinished.
(c) Droughts particularly in 1970/71, and heavy rainfall in late
1970 which damaged several crops.
(d) The Primary Banks' failure to pursue an active
collections policy. To some extent this may have been
encouraged by their relatively large resources which
reduced the pressure to collect. Also, the expanding
lending program probably diverted staff from collections.
Some political pressures may have discouraged repayments,
particularly at election times.
(e) Lack of support from the district administrations in
initiating foreclosure proceedings against long-outstanding
offenders. Although local conditions often make it
difficult to sell all land acquired in this way, it is
essential that Primary Banks make an example of at least the
worst offenders.
29.       Because of their overdues, five of the 21 Primary Banks which would
be involved in Project lending had overdues as of June 30, 1971 in excess of
their paid up capital and reserves (which taken together usually amount to
about 6% of total borrowings). This did not necessarily mean, however, that
these Primaries were insolvent because all loans are secured by mortgages
and are therefore technically recoverable. Nonetheless, Primary Banks have
experienced some difficulty in obtaining realistic market prices on land
where they have had to foreclose and with an increasing volume of foreclosed
loans this problem could become more acute. Therefore not only are present
overdue levels unacceptable high to justify a major lending program under an
IDA Project but some new capital injection is essential. This is necessary
both to strengthen the Bank's financial position and also to ensure a suffi-
cient capital base to permit the required future borrowing in the event of
some existing equity having to be written off against irrecoverable loans.
Although the State Government is only a minority shareholder in LDB, LDB's
operations are intermixed with it and the State Government is also a



ANNEX 4
Page 10
guarantor of most of its debenture issues. It is therefore appropriate that
the State Government should assist LDB at the present time.
Rehabilitation of the LDB System
30.       In order to provide the LDB system with a sound structure adequate
to administer the Project and channel IDA funds, the State Government and LDB
in consultation with ARC are therefore implementing a financial and managerial
rehabilitation program, which has been agreed upon after discussions with IDA.
The principal features of the program are as follows:
(a) Financial Rehabilitation
The main purposes is to reduce overdues to not more than
25% of the June 30, 1971 demand after deducting overdues
attributable to drought. To this end the State Government
has agreed to contribute capital to all 21 Project Primary
Banks to the extent necessary to meet this criterion as at
June 30, 1972. In addition however, the 25% maximum over-
due position must also be met against the current year's
demand and the State Government will similarly contribute
capital to the extent necessary so that at least 15 of these
Primaries qualify (including specifically the Jalgaon, Nanded
and Parbhani Banks through which much of the Project lending
will be concentrated). Based on the June 1971 overdues, the
State Government's contribution is estimated at Rs 34 million
(US$4.7 million) and in addition it will provide guarantees
of Rs 21 million (US$2.9 million) to cover half the amount of
drought overdues (Appendix 4-1). The capital contributions
will be redeemed and the guarantees reduced as recoveries
are made.
(b) Collection Program
With the cooperation of the State Government including the
provision of additional recoveries staff and improved fore-
closure procedures, the LDB system has started a collection
campaign to recover past overdues in accordance with scheduled
timetables (Appendix 4-2) and ensure satisfactory repayment
levels in future. ARC will review the recovery performance
of each Primary and, subject to IDA agreement, will withhold
Project refinance from any Primary which fails to make
satisfactory progress on recovering amounts overdue on
June 30, 1971 or which incurs a default rate of more than 25%
of payments becoming due in any subsequent year.
(c) Managerial Rehabilitation
Where necessary, boards of directors will be reconstituted
and management replaced in Primaries according to a plan
to be sent to the Association by April 30, 1972. LDB will



ANNEX 4
Page 1 1
eventually employ all managers and, as appropriate, other
staff of Primaries. Training courses are being established
for managers and staff of the LDB system to introduce new
appraisal and lending techniques. Those for sernior executives
of LDB and key officers of the Primaries would be completed by
the date of credit effectiveness.
31.       The above measures, which were agreed at negotiations are expected
to result in a satisfactory rehabilitation of the LDB system by September 30,
1972, the proposed date of credit effectiveness.  By that date all 21 of
the Project Primaries would in effect have had their overdues reduced to
acceptable levels and the proposed capital injections would have enabled
them to reduce the amount of their overdues to the apex bank to not more
than 19%. Improved collection methods described above should have resulted
in all the 21 Primaries meeting the 25% criterion on current year's demand
without further capital contributions from the State Government. At the
same time the financial position of the Project Primaries will have been
strengthened and each will have an adequate capital base to permit the further
borrowing required under the Project. These measures for the 21 Banks will
also be sufficient to ensure an adequate strengthening of the whole LDB
system though the State Government has also agreed to take early and
similar measures for the five banks which would not be involved in Project
lending.
Profits
32.       LDB's accounts show that until 1970/71 interest payments from the
Primary Banks (as against repayments of principal) have been maintained at
a high level and until that year LDB has not therefore suffered a significant
loss of income. Its profits have however been low when compared with similar
banks elsewhere in India, mainly because of its low interest margin at about
1.1% per annum (in 1970/71). The following table shows LDB's expenditures,
income and profits, also expressed as a percentage of average funds employed,
during the three years to June 30, 1971:
1970/71               1968/69           1969/70
Average Funds           Rs  1,061 million   Rs  1.326 million         Rs 1,580 million
Employed                      % of aver-            % of aver-            % of aver-
Rs M     age funds      Rs M   age funds   Rs M    age funds
Expenditures:
Interest            54.9        5.17         63.3     4.77       95.5        6.04
Other                4.8        0.45          6.0     0.45        8.2        0.52
Total Expenditures  59.7         5.62         69.3     5.22      103.7        6.56
Profit                4.6        0.44          5.1      0.39       5.6        0.35
Total Income         64.3        6.06         74.4      5.61     109.3        6.91



ANNEX 4
Page 12
LDB's profits, which have declined as a percentage of capital employed over
each of these years, have been sufficient to maintain a 4% dividend (but in
1970/71 with only a small margin after making the statutory transfers to
reserves). In 1970/71 profits at 0.35% of average funds employed compared
with 0.42% for the Tamil Nadu LDB and 0.87% for the Andhra Pradesh LMB. It
is important that LDB increase its profits, and to do this it will be
necessary to increase its interest margin. Appendixes 4-2 and 4-4 give
summarized statements of LDB's net income and balance sheets, and indicative
projections of its future financial position are given at Appendixes 4-3 and
4-5.
33.       At present, the LDB system obtains a margin of 2.5% (borrowing
from ARC at 6.5% and lending to farmers at 9%) on lending similar to that
proposed under the Project. As part of a general review of the agricultural
interest rate structure, consideration is now being given in India as to
whether this margin is likely to be adequate in future to meet the expenses
of LDB's and provide them with sufficient profits and reserves. For the
time being therefore, it is not intended that the 9% lending rate to ultimate
borrowers be increased. Within the 2-1/2% margin however, the apex bank at
present retains only 3/4% and this should be increased to at least 1% to meet
higher costs and assist in enhancing the present inadequate profit levels.
34.       The accounts of LDB and the Primary Banks are audited by independent
accountants of the State Cooperation Department in accordance with the
practice which is common throughout India. Apart from the delay in preparing
a Eull analysis of the arrears position, LDB's records and accounts appear
c.omplete and well maintained.
February 11, 1972



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
Analvsis of Overdues and Capital Contribution for Primary Banks as of June 30, 1971
(Rs '000)
(1)                   (2)          (3)           (4)           (5)             (6)           (7)          (8)               (9)                 (10)               (11)                (12)
O v e r d u e s                                          State Government Participation
A Prolect                  Total     Foreclosed    Drought    Under Three    Three Years                    % Overdue          Capital            Guarantee on           Residual      Residual Overdues
Primary Bank               Demand        Loans       Induced        Years         and Over       Total      to Demand        Contribution      Drought Overdues         Overdues       as Percent Demand
(8)-(4)-.25(2)                           (8)-(4)-(9)           (11)/(2)
Nasik                      15,031          624          566         3,702           2,493          7,403        50               3,080                  283              3,757                 25
Ahmednagar                 18,598        1,783        2,341         3,679              521         8,324        45               1,383                1,170              4,600                 25
Satara                     13,095        1,293          664         1,866              369        4,192         32                 228                  332              3,300                 25
Sangli                     20,382        1,056          832         5,145              672        7,705         38               1,778                  416              5,095                 25
Kolhapur                   14,959           49          --          3,740            1,082         4,871        32               1,131                  --               3,740                 25
Sholapur                   15,094          666        4,564         1,154              942         7,326        49                 --                 2,282              2,762                 18
Poona                      11,008          929          728           864              689         3,210        29                 --                   364              2,482                 23
Bhandara                    3,834          350          --            419              187           956        25                   18                 --                 938                 25
Nagpur                      5,447          261        1,760            78              290         2,389        44                 --                   880                629                 12
Amravati                    8,842          622        3,800            62              466         4,950        56                 --                 1,900              1,150                 13
Parbhani                    7,440          280        1,702         1,374           1,399         4,755         64               1,193                  851              1,860                 25
Jalgaon                    16,377        1,400        1,312         3,569           4,221        10,502         64               5,096                  656             4,094                  25
Nanded                     12,069        4,993        1,467         2,556            1,305        10,321        85               5,837                  734              3,017                 25
Wardha                      4,341          456        1,215           420              554         2,645        62                 348                  607              1,082                 25
Dhulia                     18,357        4,044        1,627         2,857            2,940        11,468        62               5,252                  813              4,589                 25
Akola                      11,059        3,335        1,071         2,642            1,157         8,205        74               4,369                  535              2,765                 25
Buldana                     7,897        1,505        2,950           198              687         5,340        68                 416                1,475              1,974                 25
Yeotmal                     8,700        1,209        2,116         1,317            1,082         5,724        64               1,433                1,058              2,175                 25
Aurangabad                 22,532        3,018        7,157         3,387              742        14,304        64               1,504                3,578             .5,643                 25
Bhir                        8,683          883        4,522           314              617         6,336        73                  --                2,261              1,814                 21
Udgir                       7,365          302        1,894         1,751              965         4,912        66               1,177                  947              1,841                 25
Subtotal       251110        29058        4,288             45 16,247                 135,838        54              34243                21142              592307                  3
B Other
Primary Banks
Osmanabad                  10,810                     4,513                                        5,934        50                                                       1,421                 12
Ratnagiri                     446                       --                                           200        45                                                         200                 45
Rolaba                      2,021                         5                                          943        47                                                         938                 47
Thana                         846                       --                                           496        58                                                         496                 59
Chandrapur                  3,779                       749                                        2,127        56                                                       1,378                 36
Subtotal        18,902         na          5,267           na              n                         51                                                       4433                  23
Total          270,012                                    na               na                        53              34,243               21,142 63.740                             24
February 10, 1972



INDIA
M6AIRARSlTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
M&JAhA_hTRA STATE COOPEPATIVE LND DEVELOPlfENT BANK LTD
Schedule of Recovery of Overdoes for Pri-ary Banks Involved in the PrO-ect
Primary Rack                                       Recovery Pro-ra  for Foreclosed Loans                                    Recovery Progra-  for Drought Overdues                                  Recovery Program  fec Other Overd-es
Total
Overdoes
on                                                         After                                                                   After                                                                    Afte
6/30/71      1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    6/30/75    Total            1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    6/30/75    Total             1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    6/30/75    Tstal
Nasik                     7,403            50         200         200          35         139        624          200         200         100          10          56        566           200       1,300       1,300       1,400       2,013      6,213
Ahueduagar                8,324           110         400         400         475         358      1,783          500         500         500         610         231      2,341           500       1,000       1,000         500       1,200      4,200
Satara                    4,192          150         350         350          350          93      1,293          200         200         200          14          50        664          500          500         500         500         235      2,235
Sangli                    7,705           150         250         250         250         156      1,056          250         250         250          --          82        B32        1,50D        1,500       1,500         500         817      5,817
Kolhp-r                  4,871            10          15          15           9          --         49           --          --          --          --          --         --           500       1.250       1,250       1,250         572      4,822
Sholapur                  7,326            60         250        200           50         106        666        1,000       1,000       1,000       1,100         464      4,564          300         400          400         400         596      2.096
P.o..                     3,210          100          250        250          200         129        929          300         300          55          --          73        728          200          300         300         300         453      1,553
Bhaudar-                    956            50          75         l00          75          50        350           --          --          --          --          --         --            50         150         150         100         156        606
Nagpur                    2,389            30          70          75          75          11        261          500         500         500          84         176      1,760            50          75          75          so          88        368
Asuravati                 4.950            30          70         200         200         122        622        1,000       1,000       1,000         420         380      3,800           100         100         100         100         128        528
P-rbhani                  4,755           40          100          50          50          40        280          400         400         400         332         170      1,702          200          400         400         400       1,373      2,773
Jalg.on                  10,502           100         350         350         400         200      1,400          300         300         300         300         112      1,312          500        1,500       1,500       1,000       3,290      7,790
Nanded                   10,321           200       1,200       1,200         900       1,493      4,993          325         325         325         325         167      1,467           300         500         600         600       1,861      3,861
Wardha                    2,645            65         500         100         100          91        456          400         400         300          --         115      1,215           100         200         150         150         374        974
Dhulin                   11,460           200         800       0,100       1,100         844      4,044          500         500         500          --         127      1,627           500       1,000       1,000       1,000       2,297      5,797
Akoln                     8,205           100       1,000       1,000         600         635      3,335          300         300         300          64         107      1,071          400          700         700         700       1,299      3,799
Buldhana                  5,340           100         350         350         400         305      1,505          800         800         800         255         295      2,950            50         150         150         200         335        885
Yeotusal                  5,724           100         350         350         200         209      1,209          600         600         600         104         212      2,116           300         500         S00         500         599      2,399
Aura-gabad               14,304           200         750         750         700         618      3,018        1,600       1,600       1,600       1.640         717      7,157           600         700         700         700       1,429      4,129          *oi6
Bhir                      6,336           100         200         200         200         183        883        1,000       1,000       1,000       1,070         452      4,522            30         200         200         200         301        931           1 
Udgir                     4.912            40          75          75          50          62        302          450         450         400         400         194      1,894           500         500         500         500         716      2,716
Total        135.838        2_025       7.205       7565        6419        544                    10.625       10.625      10130        6_728       4.180    42,288         7.380      12,925       12,975      11,080      20.132    64,492
February 10, 1972



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF NET INCOME
1966/67                 1967/68                 1968/69                 1969/70                 1970/71
X of                    % of                    % of                    % of                    % of
Total                   Total                   Total                   Total                   Total
Rs M    Income          Rs M    Income          Rs M    Income          Rs M    Income          Rs M    Income
INCOME
Interest and Dividends Received                    39.1       99.5         46.6       99.6         64.0       99.5         74.0-      99.5         108.9       99.6
Miscellaneous                                       0.2        0.5          0.2        0.4          0.3        0.5           0.4        0.5          0.4        0.4
Total Income                                  39.3     100.0          46.8      100.0         64.3      100.0         74.4      100.0        109.3      100.0
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on Debentures and Loans              32.6       82.9         38.3       81.8         54.9       85.4         63.3       85.0          95.5       87.3
Discount Brokerage and Commission                   0.8        2.1          0.9        1.9          2.3        3.6           2.9        3.9          1.7        1.6
Establishment Costs                                 0.9        2.2          1.1        2.4           1.5        2.3          1.8        2.4          2.0        1.8
Other Expenditures                                  0.4        1.1          0.6        1.3          1.0        1.5           1.3        1.8          4.5-;      4.1
Total Expenses                                34.7       88.3         40.9       87.4         59.7       92.8         69.3       93.1        103.7        94.8
NET INCOME                                     4.6       11.7          5.9       12.6          4.6        7.2          5.1        6.9           5.6        5.2
1/  Of which Rs 58.5 million represented interest on loans and advances and Rs 5.5 million interest on sinking fund and other investments.                                  x
2/  Of which Rs 62.2 million represented interest on loans and advances and Rs 11.8 million interest on sinking fund and other investments.
3/  Including a provision of Rs 3.1 million for overdue interest.
February 10, 1972



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
PROJECTED STATEMENTS OF NET INCOME
1971/72                    1972/73                      1973/74                     1974/75
b of                      % of                         % of                        % of
Total                      Total                        Total                       Total
Rs M    Income             Rs M    Income               Rs M    Income              Rs M    Income
INCOME
Interest Received on:
Project Loansl/              2/                              0.8        0.8              4.6         4.1             11.6         9.1            15.5         11.0
Other Loans and Investments-                                96.4       98.6            106.1        95.3            114.8        90.3           125.4         88.4
Total Interest Received                               97.2       99.4             110.7        99.4           126.4        99.4            140.9        99.4
Miscellaneous Income                                         0.6        0.6              0.7         0.6              0.8         0.6             0.9         0.6
Total Income                                     97.8      100.0            111.4       100.0            127.2       100.0           141.8        100.0
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on:
Loans on Amount of Projec                                    0.6        0.6              3.9         3.5              9.7         7.6            13.0          9.2     D X
Other Debentures and Loans-                                85.0       86.9              92.5        83.0             98.3        77.3           106.0        74.7
Total Interest Paid                                   85.6       87.5              96.4        86.5           108.0        84.9            119.0        83.9
Establishment Costs                                          2.5        2.6              3.0         2.8              4.0         3.1             4.5          3.1
Other Expenditures                                           1.7        1.7              2.5         2.2              3.2         2.6             3.3          2.4
Total Expenses                                        89.8       91.8             101.9        91.5           115.2        90.6            126.8        89.4
NET INCOME                                                        8.0        8.2               9.5         8.5            12.0         9.4             15.0        10.6
1/ Assumes 7 3/4% interest per annum.
2/  Assumes an average of 7 1/4% interest per annum on loans made to June 30, 1971, 7 1/2% on loans made in 1971/72 and 7 3/4% on loans made
thereafter:  interest on investments rising from 5% in 1970/71 to 6% in 1974/75.
3/  Assumes 6 1/2% interest per annum.
4/ Assumes an average of 6.1% in 1970/71 rising to 6.3% in 1974/75.
February 10, 1972



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
June 30, 1966       June 30, 1967          June 30, 1968           June 30, 1969             June 30, 1970             June 30, 1971
Rs M        Rs M   Change from      Rs M   Change from     Rs M      Change from    Rs M      Change from     Rs M      Change from
previous               previous                 previous                  previous                 previous
date                   date                     date                      date                     date
Rs M          _        Rs M                     Rs M                      Rs M                     Rs M
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and with banks                 2.4         13.3       10.9        20.9        7.6            0.6     (20.3)          15.2       14.6           27.6       12.4
Investments                               118.5        169.4      50.9        223.0       53.6          290.4      67.4          371.7       81.3         461.1       89.4
Loans to Primary Banks                    460.6        566.6      106.0       671.8      105.2          849.8     178.0        1,042.1      192.3        1,155.7      113.6
Other Assets                               16.9         23.4        6.5        24.7        1.3           41.7      17.0           41.3       (0.4)          45.6        4.3
TOTAL ASSETS                     598.4       772.7      174.3        940.4     167.7        1,182.5      242.1                    287.8          690.0      219.7
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CAPITAL
Debentures                                499.6        629.2      129.6       737.0      107.8          989.9     252.9        1,231.4      241.5        1,467.3      235.9
Loans and Overdrafts                       16.4          1.7      (14.7)       47.8       46.1           10.3     (37.5)          11.1        0.8            2.6       (8.5)
Other Liabilities                          42.1         93.4       51.3        95.1        1.7          104.4       9.3          136.4       32.0          115.0      (21.4)
TOTAL LIABILITIES                558.1       724.3      166.2        879.9     155.6        1,104.6      224.7        1,378.9     274.3        1,584.9      206.0
Capital Equity:
Paid-up Share Capital                 37.2         44.0        6.8         52.9       8.9           66.6       13.7          78.1       11.5           88.7       10.6
Reserves and Net Income                3.1          4.4        1.3          7.6       3.2           11.3        3.7          13.3        2.0           16.4        3.1
TOTAL CAPITAL                     40.3        48.4        8.1         60.5      12.1           77.9       17.4           91.4      13.5          105.1       13.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CAPITAL           598.4        772.7      174.3       940.4      167.7        1.182.5     242.1        1,470.3      287.8        1            219.7
February 10, 1972



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
June 30, 1972                      June 30, 1973                      June 30, 1974                       June 30, 1975
Change from  1/                    Change from                        Change from                         Change from
Rs M        Previous Date          Rs M        Previous Date          Rs M        Previous Date           Rs M        Previous Date
ASSETS
Cash on hand and with banks                    23.4              8.2              21.0             (2.4)             39.3             18.3               23.8            (15.5)
Investments                  2/               510.0           138.3              570.0             60.0             640.0             70.0              700.0             60.0
Loan to Primaries:  Project-                   20.0             20.0             100.0             80.0             200.0            100.0              200.0              --
Other                 1,400.0           357.9            1,500.0            100.0           1,600.0            100.0            1,800.0            200.0
Other Assets                                   50.0              8.7              55.0              5.0              60.0              5.0               65.0              5.0
TOTAL ASSETS                     2,300.4           533.1            21246.0            242.6           2,539.3            293.3           2,788.8            249.5
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CAPITAL
Debentures:  Project                           20.0            20.0              100.0             80.0             200.0            100.0              200.0              --
Other                        1,650.0            418.6            1,800.0           150.0            1,950.0            150.0           2,150.0            200.0
Loans and Overdrafts                           30.0            18.9               10.0            (20.0)             10.0              --                10.0              --
Other Liabilities                             180.0            43.6              200.0             20.0             230.0             30.0              250.0             20.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                1,880.0           501.1            2,110.0            230.0           2,390.0            280.0            2,610.0            220.0
Equity:
Paid-up Share Capital                   105.0             26.9              115.0            10.0              125.0             10.0             150.0             25.0
Reserves:                                                                                                                                                                                X
At beginning of year                      15.6             --                18.4              2.8              21.0              2.6               24.3              3.3        x
Add Net Income                             8.0             --                 9.5             1.5               12.0              2.5               15.0              3.0        4
Total Available                           23.6             --                27.9             4.3               33.0              5.1              39.3              6.3
Dividends Paid>/                           5.2             --                 6.9              1.7               8.7              1.8               10.5              1.8
At End of Year                            18.4             5.1               21.0              2.6              24.3              3.3               28.8             4.5
Total Equity                       123.4            32.0              136.0             12.6             149.3             13.3              178.8             29.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                             533.1            2,246.0           242.6            2,539.3            293.3           2 ,788.8           249.5
1/ See Appendix 4-4.
2/ Assumes about 80% of Project lending.
3/  Assumes 5% paid in 1971/72, 6% i.n 1972/73 and 7% in 1973/74 and 1974/75.
February 10, 1972



ANNEX 5
Page  1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Commercial Banks Operating in Maharashtra
(as of April 1971)
Number of
Nationalized Banks                             Branches
Allahabad Bank                                         13
Bank of Baroda                                        95
Bank of India                                         91
Bank of Maharashtra                                  179
Canara Bank                                           48
Central Bank of India                                105
Dena Bank                                             90
Indian Bank                                           14
Indian Overseas Bank                                   17
Punjab National Bank                                  47
Syndicate Bank                                        27
Union Bank of India                                   94
United Bank of India                                   4
United Commercial Bank                                38
State Bank of India                                  221
State Bank of Hydrabad                                56
State Bank of Bikaner 6 Jaipur                          7
State Bank of Indore                                   2
State Bank of Mysore                                    1
State Bank of Sauashtra                                 1
State Bank of Travancore                                1
Total         1,151



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Number of
Banks Under Private Ownership                     Branches
Sangli Bank Ltd.                                       43
United Western Bank Ltd.                               47
Belgaum Bank Ltd.                                      14
Ratankar Bank Ltd.                                      9
Ganesh Bank of Kuruwadi                                 2
Bank of Karad Ltd.                                     10
Andhra Bank Ltd.                                        2
ViJaya Bank Ltd.                                        4
Miraj State Bank Ltd.                                   9
National and Grindlays Bank Ltd.                       12
American Express International Banking Corp.            1
Bank of American Trust & Savings Association            1
Banque National de Paris                                2
Bank of Rajasthan Ltd.                                  2
Bank of Tokyo                                           1
British Bank of Middle East                             1
Canara Banking Corporation                              4
Chartered Bank                                          5
Eastern Bank Ltd.                                       1
First National City Bank                                3
General Bank of Netherlands                             2
Habib Bank Ltd.                                         1
Hindustan Mercantile Bank Ltd.                          1
Hindustan Commercial Bank Ltd.                          2
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation               1
Mercantile Bank Ltd.                                    6
Mitsui Bank Ltd.                                        1
New Bank of India Ltd.                                  1
Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd.                          1
Total           189
Note: All of the preceding banks are scheduled, i.e., are
included under the Second Schedule to the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1935. They are entitled to
certain borrowing facilities from the Reserve
Bank of India.
Febiruary 11, 1972



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
DETAILS OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Unit       First Year            Second Year            Third Year         Total Project
Cost    Units   Total Cost   Units   Total Cost   Units   Total Cost   Units   CZst
7               (Rs M)                (Rs M)                (Rs M)            . TigM)
1.  Minor Irrigation
Dugwells                       -        -       40.0          -       80.0           -        80.0         -     200.0
Lift                           _        _       16.8          _       33.6                    33.6         _      8h.0
Tubewells                  60,000     50         3.0        100        6.0         150         9.0       300      18.0
Total                          -        -       59.8          -      119.6           -       122.6        -      302.0
2.  Land Development,                                 2.6                 16.1                    16.1                 34.8
Total Lending Program               -       -       62.4          -      135.7            -      138.7         -      336.8
3.  Project Equipment 1/
Drilling Rigs                  -                 3.6                                                       -       3.6
Earth-Moving Machinery         -        -       17.0                                                       -      34.0
Hydrological  .quipment         -       -        0.9          -        -             -         -          -
Total                           -       -        21.5         -       17.0           _         -           _       38.5
4.  Consultancy Services 1/         -                                                              0.6                  2.
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  -       -                     _      153.8            -       139.3        _      377.6
1/  For details see Appendix 6-2
February 10, 1972



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
DETAILS OF PROJECT EQUIPMENT AND CONSULTANCY SFR.VCES COSTS
Unit CIF    Spare   Unit Price       Unit Local   Unit Total    Total         Imported
Number    Price       Parts   With Spares      Dist. Cost      Cost         Cost        Component
(Rs)       Rs)                   (RT   (Rs        (Rs '000)    (Rs '000)
A. Project Eoripment
1.  Drilling Rigs
Hammer Drills           4      650,000      98,000   748,000          150,000      898,000         3.600       3,000
Total                                         -                          -           -             3,600       3,000
2.  Earbh Moving Machinery
Elevator Scrapers      48      368,000      55,000   423,000           85,000      508,000        24,400      20,300
Crawlers with Bunding
Toolbars            20      285,000      42,000   327,000           65,000      392,000         7,800      6,500
Land Planes            20       66,000      10,000    76,ooo           15,000       91,000         1,800       1,500
Total                       -                -               .                                    34,000      28,300
Total Project Equipment                                                                              =37,600      3l300
No.      Annual    Total       Foreign Exchange
Number     Years       Cost     Cost           Components
(Rs)'   (Rs'000)        (Rs '000)
B. Consultancy Services for
Grourndwater Directorate 1/
Chief Advisor           1        2    . 450,000           900             600
Assistant Advisors      2        2         350,000      1,400            1,000
Gaging Equipment        -        -            -           900              700
Total Consultancy Services       -          -              3,200            2,300
1/  Personnel costs include salaries, on-costs, travel and consultancy overheads.
December 6, 1971



INDIA
MAHARASRTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS (CUMULATIVE)
Lending Program                       Other Investments
Minor             Land                 Equip-       Consultancy                     Total
Irrlgation       Development    Total      ment         Services       Total      Disbursements
(Rs M)             Rs M)      T(Rs M)   (Rs M)         (Rs M)        (Rs M)   (Rs M)   (US$ M)
Quarter Ending
1972/73
September 30, 19722/      --                --          --         --            --           --         --       --
December 31, 1972         --                --          --         --             0.1         0.1        0.1      --
March 31, 1973            --                1.0         1.0        --             0.3         0.3        1.3      0.2
June 30, 1973             8.0               2.0        10.0      16.0            0.5         16.5       26.5      3.6
1973/74
September 30, 1973       16.0               3.0        19.0       16.0            0.7        16.7       35.7      4.9
December 31, 1973        26.0               5.0        31.0       24.0            0.9        24.9       54.9      7.5
March 31, 1974           36.0               7.0        43.0       24.0           1.1         25.1       67.1      9.2
June 30, 1974            51.0               9.0        60.0       32.1           1.3         33.4       92.h     12.7
1974/75
September 30, 1974       66.0              11.0        77.0       32.1            1.5        33.6      109.6     15.1
December 31, 1974        86.0              13.0        99.0       32.1            1.5        33.6      131.6     18.1  
March 31, 1975          106.0              16.0       122.0       32.1            1.5        33.6      153.6     21.1
June 30, 19752/        126.0              19.0        145.0       32.1           1.5         33.6     175.6      24 .1
1975/76
September 30, 1975      146.0              22.0       168.0       32.1           1.5         33.6      197.6     27.1
December 31, 1975.3/    166.0              25.4       191.h       32.1            1.5        33.6      218.4     30.0
1/ Estimated date of credit effectiveness.
2/ Estimated date of Project completion.
3/ Closing Date.
February 10, 1972






ANNEX 7
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Present and Proposed Interest Rates for Project Institutions
The following table gives the present (in brackets) and proposed
interest rates and margins (expressed as % per annum) for Project institutions.
Margin
Increase
Borrowing Rate    Lending Rate        Margin       (Decrease)
ARC
Project          ( -)        5.4/1   t -)   6.5   ( -)   1.1
Other             (5.0)/2   5.0/2    (6.5)   6.5    (1.5)   1.5
LDB /3
Project          ( -)        6.5     ( -)   7.5   (  -)   1.0             -
Other ARC         (6.5)      6.5     (7.25)   7.5   (0.75)   1.0        0.25
Other Schemes    (6.1)/2   6.25/2  (7.25)   7.5   (1.15)   1.25          0.1
Primary Banks /4
Project          ( -)        7.5     ( -)   9.0   ( -)   1.5              -
Other ARC        (7.25)      7.5      (9.0)   9.0   (1.75)   1.5        (0.25)
Other Schenes   (7.25)       7.5      (9.0)   9.0   (1.75)   1.5        (0.25)
/1   Weighted average of 5.25% and 5.75%.
/2   Average figures.
/3   Participating commercial banks would also receive funds from ARC at an
interest rate of 6.5% and would lend to ultimate borrowers at 9%
giving them a margin of 2.5% per annum.
/4   In addition Primary Banks and commercial banks would retain the proceeds
of a 0.5% evaluation fee charged on all investment lending.
February 11, 1972






ANNEX 8
Page 1
INITA
MAMARASIWR1A ARTICr,LTUA. CREDIT PROJECT
1arm Incomes and Financial Rates of Return on Investments
1.        lhis Annex is an explanation of the methodology and assumptions
adonted in the illustrative farm models (Appendix 8-1), financial rates of
rettirn (n(nerdix R-2), and estimated increases in cropped area and production
(A.nenpnix 9-)
n)ata on costs and revenues are based on present prices.  The net
incremental nroduction value is based on a comparative static analysis of
each indiviAual farm model.
3.        Pamily labor has been excluded from production costs.  Only hired
labor during the neak periods has been included.
4.        In the case of minor irrigation investments, farmers are required
to make a denosit representing the cost of the electrical connection
(TRq 79;nn) to the State Electricity Board to obtain priority for the connec-
tion. The deposits would be included in the loans extended to farmers
and accordinRly have been included in total Project costs. However, the
cost of electric power, at Rs .18fkwh, is considered to be approximately
adequate to cover all costs of generation and distribution and, therefore,
the connection charge has not been included as an investment cost in the
farm models.
5.        Winancial rates of return are based on the estimated life of the
assetst 7n years in the case of dugwells, tubewells and lift irrigation,
and In years in the case of land development. For minor irrigation invest-
ments it is assumed that electric pumpsets would be replaced in the 8th
and lth vears.
fi.       Full production increases estimated in Appendix 8-3 would result
not onlv from direct effects of the proposed investments but also from the
accomranving improved cultivation patterns. They are assumed to occur
after a development period of 4 years.
7.        Rased on these assumptions, the financial rates of return over
the life of the assets would range from 4n to 73%.
P.        qensitivitv tests have been conducted to demonstrate the effect of
a decrease in oroduction value (through lower prices or yields). The
resultint   rates of return (7) are as given below:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
-20X gross production
Present production      value and present
and investment costs      investment costs
Model T                73                     30
Model I1               40                     24
Model III              51                     31
Model IV               65                     38
Model V                60                     39
November 8, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: FINANCIAL
Model I:  Investment:  Dugwell Improvement (Rs 4,o00); Farm Size:  4 ha
Area                     Yield                  Costs              Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                     Full                     Full                     Full                      Full        Incremental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
-ha - - - - -    - - - ton/ha - - - -    - - - - - - -                            Rs ^  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kharif
Pulses                       0.7         0.5          0.4          0.6          47          54          244         261           197         207            10
Jowar  (Irrigated)           1.0         1.7          3.0          3.0         782       1,329        1,590       2,703           808       1,374           566
Jowar  (Non-Irrigated)       1.0           -          0.6            -         110          -           318          -            208           -           (208)
Groundnuts                   0.4         0.4          0.9          1.4         106         220          486         756           380         536            156
Cotton                       0.5         1.0          1.4          1.4         478         955        1,211       2,422           733       1,467           734
Chillies                     0.1         0.2          1.6          1.6         104         208          338         675           234         467            233
Sugarcane  /                 0.2         0.2          (Harvested in Rabi season)
Rabi
Groundnut                     -          0.4            -          1.4           -         220          -           756            -          536           536
Wheat                         0.8        1.0          1.4          1.4         343         429        1,142       1,428            799         999           200
Vegetables                    0.2        0.4          9.3          9.3         230         460          744       1,488           514       1,028           514
Sugarcane                    0.2         0.2         87.5         87.5         742         742        1,269       1,269           527         527            -
Total            5.1         6.0                                 2,942       4,617
Cropping Intensity           128%        153%        Hired Labor               124         532                                    (124)      (532)          (408)
Total                  3,066       5,149        7,342      11,758         4,276       6,609          2,333   
~t00
j                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co
I/ Annual Crop
December 6, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: FINANCIAL
Model II:   Investment:  Dugwell (Rs 1U,500); Farm Sizo: 5 ha
Area                      Yield                      Costs            Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                      Full                      Full                       Full                      Full         Incremental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
* - - - - -    - -       ton/ha - - - -  -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - Rs -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kharif
Pulses                              0.6          0.5          0.4           0.6          40         54             209         261           169          207            38
Jowar                               2.0          2.0          0.8          3.0          220      1,564             848       3,180           628        1,616           988
Cotton                              2.0          1.0          0.3          1.4          350        955             900       2,422           550        1,467           917
Groundnut                           0.4          0.4          0.7           1.4         106        220             378         756           272          536           264
Chillies  1                          -           0.2           -            1.6          -         208              -          675            -           467           467
Sugarcaye  /                         -           0.2           -             -           -          -
Banana _/                                        0.2           -             -           -          -
Rabi
Groundnut                             -          0.4           -           1.4           -         220              -          756            -           536           536
Wheat                                 -          1.0           -            1.4          -         429              -        1,428            -           999           999
Vegetables                           -           0.5           -            9.3     ,   -          578              -        1,860            -         1,282         1,282
Sugarcane                            -           0.2           -          87.5           -         742              _        1,269            -           527          527
Banana                                -          0.2           -          50.0           -       1,400              -        4,000            -         2,600        -2,600
Total                5.0         6.8                                    716      6,370
Cropping Intensity                  1 0 ,        136h        Hired Labor                -         656                                                   (656)          (656)
Total                   716      7,026           2,335      16,607         1,619        9,581         7,962
t1.
1/  Annual Crop.
December 6, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: FINANCIAL
Model III:  Investment:  Tubewell (Rs 57,500); 5 Farms, Size 4 ha
Area                    Yield            .        Costs           Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                    Full                     Full                     Full                     Full        Incremental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
ha - - - - -   - - - ton/ha                                - - - - - - -    -      R  - - - - - - - - - - - s   - - - - - - - - -
Kharif
Pulses                             0.5          -          0.4           -           34          -           174          -           140           -            (140)
Jowar                              1.5        1.8          0.8          3.0         165        1,408         636         2,862        471          1,454          983
Baira                              0.2         -           0.5           -           19          -            77          -            58           -             (58)
Groundnut                          0.3          -          0.7           -           80          -            284         -           204           -            (204)
Cotton                             1.5        0.8          0.3          1.4         263           764        675         1,938        412          1,174          762
Chillies                            -         0.4           -           1,6          -           416          -          1,351         -             935          935
Sugarcane 1,                        -         0.4           -            -           _           _            _           _            _            _
Banana 1/                           -         0.2           -            -           -           -            -           -            -            -
Rabi
Groundnut                           -         0.3           -           1.9          -            165          -           770         -             605          605
Wheat                               -          1.0          -           1.4          -            429          -         1,428         -             999          999
Vegetables                          -          0.3          -           9.3          -            344          -         1,116         -             772          772
Sugarcane                           -         0.4           -          87.5          -          1,484          -         2,538         -           1,054        1,054
Banana                              -         0.2           -          50.0          -          1,400          -         4,000         -           2,600        2,600
Total                       4.0         5.8                                  561         6,410          -
Cropping Intensity                 100%       145%                     Hired Labor --             740                                                (740)       (740) a  td
Total       561         7,150        1,846       16,003      1,285          8,853        7,568  a
]/ Annual Crop
December 6, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICIJLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: FINANCIAL
Model IV:  Investment:  Lift Irrigation (Rs 480,000); h6 Farms, Size 5 ha
-       Area  _                   Yield                      Costs            Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                      Full                      Full                      Full                      Full         Incremental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
- - - - ha - -                    ton/ha - -            - -- - - - - - - - -  -               - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -
Kharif
Pulses                              0.7          0.5          0.4           0.6           47           54          244          261          197           207              10
Jowar                               2.0          2.2          0.8           3.0          220       1,720           848       3,498           628         1,778          1,150
Groundnut                           0.4           -           0.8            -           106                       432                       326                          (326)
Cotton                              1.7          1.0          0.3           1.4          298          955          765       2,422           467        1,467           1,000
Chillies                              -          0.2           -            1.6           -           208           -           675           -            467             467
Sugarcane  /                         -           0.3           -             -            -            -            -            -            -
Banana 1,                             -          0.3           -             -            -            -            -           -             -             -
Rabi
Groundnut                             -          0.5           -            1.4           -           276           -           945           -            669             669
Wheat                                0.3         1.0          0.5           1.4           84          429          153        1,428           69           999             930
Vegetables                            -          0.5           -            9.3           -           574           -        1,860             -         1,286          1,286
Sugarcane                             -          0.3           -           87.5           -        1,113            -        1,903             -           790             790
Banana                                -          0.3           -           50.0           -         2,100           -        6,000             -         3,900          3,900
Total                         5.1         7.1            -             -           755       7,429            -            -                          -
Cropping Intensity                  102%         14 2/          -          Hired Labor   -            936            -           -             -          (936)           (936) ,   >
Total         755       8,365         2,442      18,992          1,687      10,627           8,940
1/  Annual Crop
December 6, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: FINANCIAL
Model V:   Investment:  Land Development (Rs 4,500);  Farm Size 2.5 ha
Area                    Yield            -        Costs            Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                    Full                     Full                     Full                      Full        Incremental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Developmant   Before   Development
-- ha - - - -- - - - - ton-ha --  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - RB - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kharif
Pulses                      0.3        0.2          0.4          0.6           20        16           104          104          84          88             4
Jowar                       0.8        0.8          0.8          3.0           88       562           339        1,272         251         710           459
Cotton                      0.8        0.8          0.3          1.4          140       642           360        1,938         220       1,296         1,076
Rice                        0.2        0.4          0.8          2.5           37       153           102          640          65         487           422
Chillies                      -        0.2           -           1.6           -        177            -           675          -          498           498
Rabi
Wheat                       0.2        0.4          0.6          1.4           56        143          122          571          66         428           362
Jowar                       0.4        0.2          0.8          3.0           44       140           170          318         126         178            52
Rice                          -        0.4           -           2.0           -         156            -          512          -          356           356
Vegetables                    -        0.1           -           9.3           -         102            -          372          -          270           270
Total                 2.7        3.5                                   385      2,091
Cropping Intensity          108%       140%         Hired Labor                -         32                                                (32)          (32)
Total                    385      2,123         1,197        6,402         812       4,279         3,467   a
December 6, 1971






ANNEX 8
Appendix 8-2
IN D I A
MAHARASITRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN BY TYPE OF INVESTMENT
(Rs)
Year            I         2         3        4         5-7        8        9-14       15       16-20
Model I:  Investment:  Improved Dugwell
(Rs 4,000) : Farm Size: 4 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production _/                                  1,167     1,750    2,333    2,333    2,333        2,333    2,333    2,333    2,333
Capital Investment                                                     4,000                                              1.250 2/            1.250
Net Incremental Flow                                                   (2,833)   1,750    2,333       2,333    2,333      1,083    2,333    1,083    2,333
Financial Rate of Return: 737
with 2017 price or yield decline (on incremental 2 ha): 307,
1) Year 1 - 507,; Year 2-75%; Year 3 onward full value
2) 50%b of pump and motor
Model II: Investment Duawell
(Rs 15,500) Farm Size: 5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production 1/                                  1,592    3,185    4,777    6,370    7,962    7,962    7,962    7,962    7,962
Capital Investment                                                    15.500                                              2,500               2,500
Net Incremental Flow                                                 (13,908)   3,185    4,777        6,370    7,962    5,462    7,962    5,462    7,962
Financial Rate of Return:            40%
With 20%. price or yield decline:  24%
1)  Year 1, 20%; year 2, 4070; year 3, 60%, year 4, 807,
year 5 onward full value.
Model III: Investment Tubewell
(Rs  4,500  t/  Farm Size:  4 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production 2/                                  1,513'   3,026    4,540    6,054    7,568    7,568    7,568    7,568    7,568
Capital Investment                                                     11500                                             1,000               1.000
Net Incremental Flow                                                   (9,987)   3,026    4,540    6,054    7,568    6,568    7,568    6,568    7,568
Financial Rate of Return:            51%
With 20% price or yield decline: 31%
1) Partial Investment of Total Scheme
2) Year 1, 20%; year 2, 40%7; year 3, 60%; year 4, 80%Z; year 5
onward full value.
Model IV: Investment: Lift Irrigation
(Rs 10,500)1/ Farm Size: 5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production 2/                                  1,788    3,576    5,364    7,152    8,940    8,940    8,940    8,940    8,940
Capital Investment                                                    10.500                                              2,625               2.625
Net Incremental Flow                                                   (8,712)   3,576    5,364    7,152    8,940    6,315    8,940    6,315    8,940
Financial R-te ot Return:            65%
With 20% price or yield decline: 38%
1) Partial Inivestment of Total Scheme
2) Year 1, 20%b; year 2, 40%; year 3, 607%; year 4, 80%; year 5 onward full value.
Model V:  Investment:  Land Development                                                                                                                      16-30
(Rs 4,500) Farm Size 2.5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production 1/                                    693    1,387    2,080    2,774    3,467    3,467          3,467     3,467     3,467
Capital Investment                                                     4,500       -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -
Net Incremental Flow                                                   (3,807)   1,387    2,080    2,774    3,467         3,467     3,467     3,467     3,467
Financial Rate of Return:              60%/
With 207, rice or yield decline:   397.
1)  Year 1, 207%; year 2, 40%; year 3, 607%; year 4, 80%; year 5
onward full value.
December 6, 1971






I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATED INCREASES IN CROPPED AREA AND PRODUCTION
Cropped Area                             Production
Increase                             Increase
Before    After       (Decrease)      Before     After     (Decreased)
- - - - - - - ha    - - - - -   - - -      -7-    ton -
Foodgrains
Jowar                               101,!50    98,900       (2,550)       117,160   296,700     179,540
Bajra                                 3,300     6,000        2,700          1,650    10,800       9,150
Wheat                                22,000    45,900       23,900         24,480    64,260      39,780
Rice                                  2,200     8,800        6,600          1,760    19,800      18,040
Pulses                               31,550    22,200       (9,350)        12,620    13,320         700
Total Foodgrains        160,500   181,800       21,300        157,670   404,880     247,210
Commercial Crops
Cotton                               61,650    56,o00       (5,650)        28,395    78,400      50,005
Groundnut                            14,050    25,250       11,200         12,595    35,575      22,980
Sugarcane                             3,600     8,200        4,600        315,000   717,500     402,500
Banana                                          4,300        4,300           -      215,000     215,000
Vegetables                            3,600    18,250       14,650         33,480   169,725     136,245
Chillies                              1,800    12,600       10,800          2,880    20,160      17,280       t B
Total Commercial Crops   84,700   124,600       39,900        392,350 1,236,360      844,010
OD
Total All Crops         245,200                 61,200
NOTE: The increases in cropped area and production are estimated at full development (in the
fifth year after investment).
December 6, 1971






ANNEX 9
INDIA
MARARASHTRA AGRICULTTtAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rates of return from participating enterprises have
been calculated as shown in the attached tables. The following principal as-
sumntions have heen made-
(a)  MorM market nrices as projected by the Trade Policies and
Exnort Prolections Division of IBRD's Economics Department
have been used to estimate benefits.
(b)  Current prices net of taxes and duties have been used for
investments and price contingencies have been excluded.
(c)  Water rates on major irrigation schemes have been adjusted
to reflect the cost of scheme investment.
(d)  Family labor has been excluded from production
costs. Onlv hired labor during the peak periods
has been included.
(e)  The electricity connection charge has not been
included as an investment cost (see Annex 8).
1.       Rased on these assumptions, the economic rates of return over the
life of the assets would range from 33% to 55%.
The effects of possible decreases in production value (through low-
er prices or vields) have been tested.  If gross production value were
to decline by 2n% the economic rates of return would range from 15% to 30%.
lnvvember R, 1q71






I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: ECONOMIC
Model I: Investment: Improved Dugwell (Rs 3,850); Farm Size 4 ha
Area                     Yield             .       Costs            Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                     Full                     Full                      Full                     Full         Incremental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
- - - - ha -ton/ha - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Rs  - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kharif
Pulses                            0.7         0.5          0.4          0.6           47         54            244         261          197          207           10
Jowar (Irrigated)                 1.0         1.7          3.0          3.0          782      1,329         1,590        2,703          808        1,374          566
Jowar  (Non-Irrigated)            1.0          -           0.6            -          110          -            318         -            208           -          (208)
Groundnut                         0.4         0.4          0.9           1.4          106       220            360         560          254          340           86
Cotton                            0.5         1.0          1.4           1.4         478        955            910       1,820          432          865          433
Chillies                          0.1         0.2          1.6          1.6           104       208            338         675          234          467          233
Sugarcane 1                       0.2         0.2           -            -             -         -              -           -            -            -            -
Rabi
Groundnut                           -         0.4            -           1.4           -         220            -          560           -           340          340
Wheat                             0.8         1.0           1.4          1.4          343       429            784         980          441          551          110
Vegetables                        0.2         0.4           9.3          9.3          230        460           744       1,488          514        1,028          514
Sugarcane                         0.2         0.2         87.5         87.5           742       742            963         963          221          221           -
Total                      5.1         6.0                                  2,942      4,617                        
Cropping Intensity                1287        153%        Hired Labor                 124        532                                   (124)        (532)         (408)
Total                   3,066      5,149          6,251      10,010        3,185        4,861        1,676    %
1/ Annual Crop.
December 6, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MoDELS: ECONOMIC
Model II: Investment: Dugwell (Rs 15,350); Farm Size 5 ha
Area                    Yield            *.       Costs           Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                    Full                     Full                     Full                     Full        Increrneni
Befo-e   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
----ha - - - - -                 ton/ha - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Rg  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Rharif
Pulses                     0.6         0.5         0.4          0.6           40         54          209         261          169          207            38
Jowar                      2.0         2.0          0.8         3.0          220      1,564          848       3,180          628        1,616           988
Cotton                     2.0         1.0         0.3          1.4          350        955           780      1,820          430          865           435
Groundnut                  0.4         0.4          0.7         1.4          106        220           280        560          174          340           166
Chillies                    -          0.2           -          1.6           -         208            -         675           _           467           467
Sugarcane _/                -          0.2           -           -            -          -
Banana 1/                   -          0.2           -           -            -          -             _          _            _            _
Rabi
Groundnut                   -          0.4           -          1.4           -         220            -         560           -           340           340
Wheat                       -          1.0           -          1.4           -         429            -         980           -           551           551
Vegetables                  -          0.5           -          9.3           -         578            -       1,860           -1,282                   ,2821
Sugarcane                   -          0.2           -         87.5           -         742            -         963           -           221           221
Banana                      -          0.2           -         50.0           -       1,400            -       4,000           -         2,600         2,600
Total                 5.0        6.8                                   716      6,370                       
Cropping Int,ensity        100%        136%        Hired Labor                -         656                                               (656)         (656) N
Total                    716      7,026         2,117     14,859        1,401        7,833         6,432   W
1/ Annual Crop
December 6, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: ECONOMIC
Model III:   Investment:  Tubewell (Rs 57.200);  5 Farms, Size 4 ha
Area                     Yield                     Costs            Gross Production Valueu                      e
Full                     Full                     Full                      Full                     Full         Incremental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
- - - - ha - - - -               ton/ha - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                    - - - s- - -- -     - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kharif
Pulses                    0.5         -           0.4            -            34           -          174          -           140             -           (140)
Jowar                      1.5        1.8          0.8          3.0          165        1,408         636         2,862        471           1,454          983
Bajra                      0.2         -           0.5           -            19           -           77          -            58              -           (58)
Groundnut                  0.3         -           0.7           -            80                      210          -           130              -          (130)
Cotton                     1.5        0.8          0.3          1.4          263          764         585         1,456        322             692          370
Chillies                    -         0.4           -           1.6           -           416          -          1,351          -             935          935
Sugarcane l/                -         0.4                              -                         -                 -
Banana I/                   -         0.2           -            -            -            -           -           _            _
Rabi
Groundnut                   -         0.3           -           1.9           -           165          -            570         -              405          405
Wheat                       -         1.0           -           1.4           -           429          -            960         -              551          551
Vegetables                  -         0.3           -           9.3           -           344          -          1,116          -             772          772
Sugarcane                   -         0.4           -          87.5           -         1,484          -          1,925         -              441          441
Banana                      -         0.2           -          50.0           -         1,400          -          4,000          -           2,600        2,600
Total                4.0        5.8                                     561        6,410
Cropping Intpnsity         100%       145%                     Hired Labor   -            740                                                 (740)        (740) '
Total         561        7,150         1,682      14,260      1,121           7,110        5,989
1/  Annual Crop
December 6, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: ECONOMIC
Model IV:  Investment:  Lift Irrigation (Rs 472,640); 46 Farms, Size 5 ha
Area                    Yield      _              Costs           Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                    Full                     Full                     Full                    Full        Incremental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
-- ha- ---- ----ton/ha
_ _  -  a -  -      ~   ~~ ~ton/a -- -    -  - -- -- -  -  - -- -Rs  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Kharif
Pulses                      0.7       0.5          0.4          0.6           47        54           244         261         197          207            10
Jowar                       2.0       2.2          0.8          3.0          220     1,720           848      3,498          628        1,778         1,150
Groundnut                   0.4         -          0.8           -           106        -            320         -            214          -           (214)
Cotton                      1.7        1.0         0.3          1.4          298       955           663       1,820          365         865           500
Chillies                     -        0.2           -           1.6           -        208            -          675           -          467           467
Sugarcane 1/                 -        0.3           -                         -                                                               _
Banana 1/                    -        0.3           _            _
Rabi
Groundnut                    -         0.5          -           1.4           -        276            -          700           -          424           424
Wheat                       0.3        1.0         0.5          1.4           84       429           105         980           21         551           530
Vegetables                   -         0.5          -           9.3           -        574            -        1,860           -        1,286         1,286
Sugarcane                    -        0.3           -          87.5           -      1,113            -        1,444           -          331           331
Banana                       -         0.3          -          50.0           -      2,100            -        6,000           -        3,900         3,900
Total                 5.1       7.1                                   755      7,429                                                                   10
Cropping Intensity          102%       1427/       Hired Labor                -        936                                                (936)        (936)  I > 
Total                    755     8,365         2,180      17,238        1,425        8,873        7,448
1/ Annual Crop
December 6, 1971



I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS: ECONOMIC
Model V:   Investment:  Land Development (Rs 4,369); Farm Size 2.5 ha
*   .Area        _-             Yield       _             Costs           Gross Production Value Net Production Value
Full                    Full                     Full                     Full                     Full        I:icrernental
Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development   Before   Development
- - - - hatnha - - -  - -  - - -  - tnh             - - -________         -    --  - - - - - - Ra      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -       
Kharif
Pulses                     0.3        0.2          0.4          0.6          20         23           104         104           84          81           (3)
Jowar                      0.8        0.8          0.8         3.0           88        666           339      1,272          251          606          355
Cotton                     0.8        0.8          0.3         1.4          140        805           312      1,456          172          651          479
Rice                       0.2        0.4          0.8          2.5          37        177            91        570           54          393          339
Chillies                    -         0.2           -          1.6           -         218            -         675           -           457          457
Rabi
Wheat                      0.2        0.4          0.6          1.4          56        192            84         392           28         200          172
Jowar                      0.4        0.2          0.8         3.0           44        166           170        318          126          152           26
Rice                        -         0.4           -           2.0          -         389            -          456           -           67           67
Vegetables                  -         0.1           _          9.3           -         129            -          372           _          243          243
Total                  2.7        3.5                                   385      2,765
Cropping Intensity         108=/      1407/        hired Labor               -          32                                     -           (32)        (32)
Total                    385      2,797         1,100      5,615          715        2,818        2,103  
*
December 6, 1971                                                                                                                                               x






ANNEX 9
Appendix 9-2
I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETUPN BY TYPE OF INVESTMENT
(Rs)
Year             1        2       3        4        5-7         8        9-14        15         16-20
Model I: Investment: Improved Dugwell
(Rs 3,850) Farm Size: 4 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production  /                                        838       1,257  1,676   1,676    1,676        1,676  / 1,676        1,676      1,676
Capital Investment                                                          3,850        --      --        --        --      1.175 -    --         1.175        --
Net Incremental Flow                                                        (3,012)    1,257  1,676   1,676    1,676           501     1,676         501      1,676
Economic Rate of Return:              W0K
With 20% yield or price decline   15%
1)  year 1 50%; year 2, 75%; year 3 onward fall value
2) 507% of pump and motor
Model II: Investment Dugwell
(Rs 15,350): Farm Size: 5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production  /                                      1,286       2,573  3,859   5,146       6,432    6,432    6,432         6,432      6,432
Capital Investment                                                         15350        --      --       --        --       2.350       --       2,350         --
Net Incremental Flow                                                      (14,064)    2,573  3,859   5,146    6,432    4,082    6,432             4,082       6,432
Economic Rate of Return:             33%
With 207. yield or price decline 17%
1) year 1, 2074; year 2, 40%; year 3, 607%; year 4, 80%; year
5 onward full value.
Model III:  Investment Tubewell
(Rs 11,440)1/:  Farm  Size:  4 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production 2/                                      1,198       2,396  3,593   4,791    5,989    5,989    5,989           5,989       5,989
Capital Investment                                                         11 440        -       --      ---        ---        940      -            940
Net Incremental Flow                                                      (10,242)    2,396  3,591   4,791        5,989    5X049    5,989         5,049       5,989
Economic Rate of Return:              41%
With 207% yield or price decline   22%
1) Partial investment of total scheme
2)  year 1, 20%; year 2, 40%/; year 3, 60%; year 4, 80%; year 5
onward full value.
Model IV: Investment Lift Irrigation
(Rs 10.340)1/: Farm Size: 5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Preductian 2/                                      1,490       2,979  4,469   5,958    7,448        7,448    7,448        7,448      7,448
Capital Investment                                                         10.340         --      --       --        --      2X465        --       2.465         --
Net Incremental Flow                                                       (8,850)      2,979  4,469   5,958    7,448    4,983    7,448            4,983      7,448
Economic Rate of Return:              55%
With 20% yield or price decline   302
l) Partial investment of total scheme
2) year 1, 20%; year 2, 40%; year 3, 607%; year 4, 80%;
year 5 onward full value.
Model V:  Investment:  Land Development                                                                                                                         16-30
(Rs 4,365): Farm Size 2.5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production 1/                                        421         841  1,262   1,682    2,103        2,103     2,123       2,103      2,103
Capital Investment                                                          4.365         --     --        --        --        --         --         --          --
Net Incremental Flow                                                       (3,944)        841  1,262   1,682    2,103        2,103     2,103       2,103      2,103
Economic Rate of Return:              39%
With 20% yield or price decline   19%
1) year 1, 20%; year 2, 40%; year 3, 60%; year 4, 80%;
year 5 onward full value.
February 10, 1972






ANNEX 10
Page   1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Comparison of Alternate Transport Means for Sugarcane
A. Background
1.        The Maharastra State Government has requested financial assistance
from IDA to provide some 20 well-established sugar mills with about 1,000
tractors, mainly for sugarcane transport. The proposal is for wheel-type
tractor/trailer units which could also be used for farm operations.
B. Comments
2.        Present means of transportation are bullock carts, tractors and
trucks. Limiting factors for the choice of transport means are, firstly,
the crushing season which normally should not exceed 180 days from October
through April/May and, secondly, the necessity of processing the harvested
cane within 24 hours in order to avoid unacceptable loss of sugar content.
Bullock carts are only used over short distances (up to 10 km) because of
their low carrying capacity and speed. Tractors and trucks are used for
longer distances, but information obtained in the field indicates that the
transport volume by truck greatly exceeds the volume handled by bullock cart:
and tractors.
3.        With regard to the advantage of tractors over trucks on deteriorat
roads, it appears that, under normal circumstances, the existing road
conditions in the sugarcane area, especially during the dry harvesting
season, are adequate to allow trucks access to the fields. This assumption
is supported by existing transport patterns.
4.        The use of tractors for farm operations would be very limited,
since the sugar mills would require the use of the tractor/trailer units
for transport during the harvesting season which covers, to a great extent,
the periods during which tractors could be used for cultivation purposes.
C. Comparative Analysis
5.        The intention of the following analysis is to compare investments
in a tractor fleet and a truck fleet for sugarcane transport. For this
purpose, it has been assumed that investments in the sugar industry would



ANNEX 10
Page   2
be economically justified. Since sugar processing is an integrated
process, benefits for cane transport cannot be determined uniquely and,
therefore, a least cost solution has been sought for the transport compo-
nent. Transport volume and thus benefits would be the same in both cases,
although tractors might be used for farm operations to some extent. It has
been assumed, however, that these minor additional benefits would be offset
by additional truck usage for general cargo after the harvesting season.
Therefore only estimated cost streams have been computed and discounted,
and the net present values compared. The lowest net present value indicates
the preferred alternative.
6.        General Assumptions:  A sugar cooperative would exp-and its area
under sugarcane from about 7,300 ha to about 8,900 ha with-an increase in
the corresponding daily crushing capacity from 2,600 tons to 3,250-tons.
In addition, the weighing and unloading facilities would be improved to
handle the incremental intake of about 120,000 tons of cane in the 180-day
crushing season. The road network would be adequate to allow access to
sugar fields.
7.        Traffic Volume:  About 120,000 tons of sugarcane grown in the
range between 10 and 40 km around the sugar mill. The average daily volume
would be about 670 tons to be hauled over a linear average distance of
25 km.
3.1       Time Limits:  Assuming that present means of transport are
adequate to handle present production in 180 working days, the additional
transport facilities would have to work under the same constraint. In
acldition, one transport unit cannot work more than 10 hours per working
day.
9.        Transport Units:  Bullock carts have been excluded from this
arnalvsis because of the distances involved and their low carrying capacity.
The tractor unit used for comparison would consist of one tractor and
four trailers and the truck unit would consist of one truck and two
trailers. Two trailers of the tractor unit (one of the truck unit) would
be loaded in the field during haulage of the others to the sugar mill.
10.       Number of Units Required:
Tractor Unit
(a)  Hauling Distance:                     25 km; one-way
(b)  Tractor Speed:                        10 km/hour; loaded
15 km/hour; unloaded



ANNEX 10
Page   3
(c) Number of Daily Trips:
(i) Travelling time to and from mill: 4.2 hours
(ii) Turn-around time at mill:
Weighing-parking-uncoupling-coupling: 0.5 hours
(iii) Turn-around time at field:
Uncoupling-coupling: 0.2 hours
(iv) Time required for one round trip: 4.9 hours
(v) Trips per day: 2
The tractor unit would travel 100 km per day and haul 18 tons over a
distance of 25 km to the sugar mill. For the daily volume of 670 tons,
37 units would be required.
Truck Unit
(a)  Haulipg Distance:                    25 km; one-way
(b)  Truck Speed:                         30 km/hour; loaded
40 km/hour, unloaded
(c) Number of Dailv Trips:
(f) Travelling time to and from mill: 1.5 hours
(ii) Turn-around time at mill:
Weighing-parking-uncoupling-unloading-coupling: 0.6 hours
(iii) Turn-around time at field:
Uncoupling-loading-coupling:  1.2 hours
(iv) Time required for one round trip: 3.3 hours
(v) Trips per day: 3
The truck unit would travel 150 km per day and haul 56 tons over a distance
of 25 km to the sugar mill. For the daily volume of 670 tons, 12 units
would be required.



ANNEX 10
Page   4
11.       Investment and Operating Costs:
Tractor TTnit
Investment Cost
Tractor (1); 35 hp                  Rs 44,400
Trailers (4); 4.5 ton               Rs 24,000
Rs 6 8_ 4 00
Operating Cost
Hours operated per season            1,800 h/season
Operating Costs per season          See Table 1
Life of Assets:  Tractor             10,000 hours (6 seasons)
Trailer            20,000 hours (12 seasons)
Salvage value                       20% of original investment
Truck Unit
Investment Cost
Truck (1); 9.5 ton                  Rs 60,000
Trailers (2); 9 ton                 Rs 22,000
Rs ~82 0 00
Operating Cost
Hours operated per season            1,800 h/season
Kilometers travelled per season    27,000 km
Operating Costs per season          See Table 1
Life of Assets:  Truck              330,000 km (12 seasons)
Trailer            330,000 km (12 seasons)
Salvage value                       20% of original investment
12>.      The figures in Appendix 10-1 clearly indicate that a truck/trailer
combination is preferable to a tractor/trailer combination under the
assumptions made. The main reasons for this result are higher speed,
g:reater capacity, and longer lifetime of the trucks. The key variables in
this analysis are the distances involved and the mode of operation. Since
it: might not always be possible to operate a truck/trailer combination in
the sugarcane area, the results have been tested using alternate assumptions
concerning the distance and the mode of operation. The results are
nresented in the table below:



ANNEX 10
Page   5
Comparison of Alternate Means of Transport Under Various Assumptions
Alternate Modes    Distance from Field       Means of Transport to be Chosen
of Operation       to Sugar Mill            Financial Costs     Economic Costs
Tractor/trailer        25 km                Truck/trailer-      Truck/trailer
VS .
Truck/traiter
Tractor/trailer        25 km                Truck               Truck
vs. Truck
Tractor/trailer        10 km                Truck/trailer       Truck/trailer
Vs.
Truck/trailer
Tractor/trailer        10 km                Tractor/trailer     Truck
vs. Truck
/1  The analysis for this alternative is presented in Appendix 10-1.  The
economic analysis is essentially the same and involves primarily
corresponding percentage changes in the costs.
13.       The results show that over short distances a tractor/trailer fleet
would he preferable to a truck (without trailer) operation in financial
terms, mainly because of the high taxation on nonagricultural vehicles.
This exDlains also why some sugar mills use tractor/trailer combinations
to some extent for sugarcane haulage. However, the economic analysis
indicates that both a truck/trailer combination and a solo truck operation
would he preferable to a tractor/trailer combination, even at 10 km.
14.       The foregoing analysis assumes that the mills themselves would own
and onerate the means of transport for sugarcane and could, therefore,
consider the possibilitv of using a truck fleet for hauling general cargo.
In practice, however, a truck fleet would probably stand idle in the off
season since nublic carrier licenses are both expensive and difficult to
obtain. Therefore the optimum solution under existing conditions might be
the rental of trucks on a fixed term basis.
November A, 1971






1 N D I A
MAHARASIITRA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Net Present Worth of Cost Streams for Transport Alternatives
(in Rs)
Season                                1            2            3            4            5            6            7            6            9            10          11           12        13
lrac-or Unit
tnvestments
Tractor (1)                   44,400                                                                       44,400
Trailers (4)                  24,000
Salvage Valoe (20X)                                                                                        (8,900)                                                                    (13,700)
Operating Costs
(1,800 hI
Foel and Lubrication           6,800        6,800  )                                                        6,800        6,800
(R.  3.70/h)
Maintenance and Repairs        7,400        9,800 1/                                                        7,400        9,800
Insorance (Camp.)                400          400  )                                                          400          400
Drivers Wagrs                                      )   21,800       21,800       21,800       21,800                             )   21,800       21,800       21,800       21,800
(R.  250/e)                 3,000        3,000                                                            3,000        3.000
Clea.er's Wages
(Rs  150/rn)                 1,800       1.800                                                                         1.800
Tractor Unit                  19,400       21,800       21,800      21,800       21,800       21,800       17,600       21,800       21,800       21,800       21,800       21,800   (13,700)
Total Fleet (37 Units)
(Rs '000) 2/                     3.249          807          807         807          807          807       1_965           807          807          807          807          807   (    507)
Net Present Value of
Cost Stream at 107.              8.983
Truck Unit
Investments
Truck                         60,000
rrailers (2)                  22,000
Salvage Valor (20J)                                                                                                                                                                   (16,400)
Operating Costs (27,000 km)
Fuel and Lubrication
(Rs  0.21/km)               5,600        5,600  )
Maintenance 2/                 5,000       12,OCO 1/
Tao and Registration           4,500        4,500  )   29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400
Insurance                      2,500        2,500
Driver' Wages                  3,000        3,000
Cleaner's Wages                1,800        1,800
Tru-k UniL                         22,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400       29,400      29,400       29,400       29,400   (16,400)
Total Fleet (Rs '000) 2/
(a)  12 Units                  1,253          353          353         353          353          353          353          353          353          353          353          353   (   197)
(b)  24 Units
(Without Trailers)       1,978          706          706          706          706          706          706          706          706          706          706          706   (   300)
(a)  Net P-resont Valor of
Cost Stream  at 10!/                                                                                                                                                                              z
(12 Units)               3,483
(b)  Net Present VolIe of                                                                                                                                                                            a,
Cost Stream at 10'                                                                                                                                                                             x0
(24 Unit,)               6,472                                                                                                                                                                  a
1/  Ose set of tires a yer due to higher road u,sae-
D/ Including ir6 est19 nts and salvage valve.
December 6. 1921






M    A   D    H   Y   A                             P    R   A    D    E    S    H
.4    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ' t';, ,S' ANDIA                                                                         y
re   f ;&   s  L          >   0SMANAeAD                      __rt  +                 AGRICULIURAL CREDIT  
Cl>                                                                                                                                                -HAII ' S N L ,    ,~C .uewls. . . .  ANIN",
'Se.  RtATnvAii    (      \   t        | Oe -                                     0   Mai towNsh
; V *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,--a---Ra Rlways                                                           ;VI N D I A  <5-PsI
:1 \. s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-oCo,SI-- Rosorvoirs and lanen                                                 ;                                MAn
t|      . s  tS                                                  .S  -~ ~ Dsta te boundaries                                          \-        
: , ~~~~~~-                                                                Not  n- Lif. pt irrigaotion schemes5 lana d at vaorious                       a     ,
55Pg51.1oit to7i  a state
'6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>sw
asttsnsrtitti                                                                                                                                                              a unna~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'UDA<



