CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 293 IN
Project Agreement
(Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 293 IN
Project Agreement
(Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT       ASSOCIATION       (hereinafter  called  the  Association),
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC) and
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK,
LIMITED (hereinafter called LDB).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition inter alia
that ARC and LDB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and The State of Maharashtra, the said State has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC and LDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Rs" shall mean rupees in the currency of the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC and LDB shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in
Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b)   ARC shall, in sufficient time before the Effective Date, invite to
participate in the Project the banks listed in the Second Schedule to the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934, on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the
Association.
(c)   ARC shall enter into agreements with LDB and each bank responding
to ARC's invitation under paragraph (b) of this Section on terms and conditions
(including inter alia those set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   ARC shall: (i) require Participating Banks to maintain separate accounts
for Project lending and (ii) ensure that such accounts are audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.03. LDB shall enter into an agreement with each Primary Bank
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to ARC.
Section 2.04. (a) The operating policies and procedures for carrying out the
Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 hereto, as the same may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Association, ARC and LDB.


﻿5
(b)   ARC   shall take all necessary measures to ensure that LDB, the
Participating Banks and Primary Banks in their operations adhere to the appraisal
criteria and procedures relating to minor irrigation set forth in said Schedule 1.
Section 2.05. ARC shall take such measures as shall be necessary to ensure
that appraisals of Agricultural Loans are in conformity with agreed lending criteria
and to ensure that not more than one Agricultural Loan is granted for the same
investment.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC shall
ensure that all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under
Categories I and II of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in
Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement are used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.07. ARC and LDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to them by the
Borrower and by ARC, respectively, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the goods financed out
*        of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to them   and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.08. ARC and LDB shall at all times charge interest on all of their
loans at rates sufficient to enable ARC and LDB, respectively, to (a) cover all
operating expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and interest payments
on borrowings; and (b) maintain adequate provisions for bad debts and maintain
adequate gen-ral reserves in accordance with sound commercial practice.
Section 2.09. ARC in consultation with the Association shall continue to
assist in the maintenance by LDB and the Primary Banks in Maharashtra of sound
business and financial practices.
Section 2.10. ARC shall as soon as possible after the date of this Agreement
establish a system, satisfactory to the Association, of evaluating on a continuing
basis the financial and economic benefits of agricultural credit projects financed
by the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.11. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.15 hereof, ARC
shall, after consultation with and agreement by the Association, withhold
refinancing under the Project from any Primary Bank which:
(a)   fails to achieve a recovery rate of 75% in respect of all demands liable
to become overdue during the fiscal year ending June 30 of each year other than
those which had already become due as on June 30, 1971; or
(b)  in respect of repayments due on June 30, 1971, fails to take measures
satisfactory to ARC to ensure the recovery of such repayments less any sums which
in the judgment of ARC shall have been reasonably written off.
Section 2.12. ARC shall require and assist the Participating Banks and Primary
Banks to arrange a series of courses which shall be aimed at familiarizing staff
of said Banks with the operating policies and procedures and agreed lending criteria
applicable to the Project.
Section 2.13. ARC shall take due measures to ensure that all banks listed
in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 lend for minor
irrigation investments only where:
(a)   a certificate of non-objection has been received from GSDA; and
(b)   such lending conforms to the criteria set out in Schedule 1 hereto:
(i)        in the case of lending within the Project area, as from the date
of this Agreement, and
(ii)       in the case of lending outside the Project area, twelve months
after the Effective Date.
Section 2.14. LDB in consultation with ARC shall by the Effective Date
have completed a financial and managerial reorganization acceptable to the
Association of the Primary Banks listed in Schedule 3 hereto.
Section 2.15. ARC shall not refinance any loans under this Project approved
by a Primary Bank before the reorganization referred to in Section 2.14 hereof
has been completed in respect of that Primary Bank.
Section 2.16. Any Primary Bank which has suffered disqualification from
refinance facilities by virtue of Section 2.11 or 2.15 hereof may be allowed by


﻿7
ARC to participate in Project lending on the default leading to the disqualification
being subsequently rectified.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC and LDB
Section 3.01. ARC and LDB shall: (a) at all times manage their affairs,
maintain their financial position, plan their future expansion and carry on their
operations, all in accordance with sound business and financial practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LDB, the
Primary Banks and the Participating Banks shall apply the same criteria to all similar
types of lending that they apply to Project lending and, with respect to such similar
types of lending, shall not offer more favorable terms than are offered under Project
lending except for schemes submitted under the aegis of the Small Farmers and
Marginal Farmers Development Agencies in Maharashtra.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC and LDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices their operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARC    and LDB shall: (i) establish and maintain separate
accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project;
(ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors, acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of said separate accounts and their financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such. scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning


﻿8
their accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association, ARC and LDB shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
ARC and LDB shall from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of ARC and LDB and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association, ARC and LDB shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by any of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
ARC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ARC and LDB, respectively, shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect all their records and documents relevant to the Project.  S
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, ARC
and LDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date when all principal amounts withdrawn by ARC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and interest thereon shall have
been repaid by ARC to the Borrower.


﻿40                                9
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC and LDB of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made tinder this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India


﻿10
Cable address:
Agrofinans
Bombay
For LDB:
Managing Director
The Maharashtra State Cooperative
Land Development Bank, Limited
J.K. Building
Dougall Road
Ballard Estate
Fort
Bombay 1
Cable address:
Mortgage
Bombay
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of (i) ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as ARC shall designate in writing; and (ii) LDB may be taken
or executed by its Managing Director or such other person or persons as LDB
shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ARC and LDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of ARC and LDB take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC and LDB,
respectively, pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice Presiden t
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
MAHARASHTRA STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.   Investment Requirements
(1)   Tubewells
Area:                            Tapi/Purna basin (sedi-
mentary areas) falling
within the districts of
Dhulia-Jalgaon-Buldhana-
Akola-Amravati
Investment:                      300 tubewells
Pump:                            10 hp submersible or
turbine (guideline)
Minimum peak discharge:          15 1/sec
Minimum irrigated area:          20 ha
Minimum spacing (any
other energized well):           1,000 m
Maximum density:                 0.4 tubewell/km)
(2)  Dugwells and Dugwell Improvements
Construction of new dugwells and the improvement of existing dugwells
would involve an investment of Rs 200 million in the following regions:
(a)   Area:                            Tapi/Purna basin falling
within the districts of
Nasik-Dhulia-Jalgaon-
Buldhana-Akola-Amravati
(b)   Area:                            Penganga basin falling
within the districts of
Yeotmal-Nanded-Akola-
Parbhani


﻿13
(c)   Area:                             Godavari/Manjra basin
falling within the dis-
tricts of Aurangabad-
Ahmednagar-Bhir-Osmanabad-
Parbhani-Nanded
(d)   Area:                             Bhima basin falling within
the districts of Sholapur-
Satara-Poona-Osmanabad-
Ahmednagar
(e)   Area:                             Wardha/Wainganga basin
falling within the dis-
trict of Nagpur
Pump:                             5 hp centrifugal
(guideline)
Minimum instant
discharge:                         10 1/sec
Minimum discharge
(December):
Dugwell:                     150 m3/day
Dugwell improvement:         120 m3/day
Minimum irrigated area:
Dugwell:                     5 ha
Dugwell improvement:         4 ha
Maximum density of wells:
r x 100
d     =          RxAx c
100
Where:      d    =     density (wells/km2)
r     =    recharge in basin (mm)
R     =    water requirement for the aver-
age cropping pattern (mm)
c     =    cropping intensity (%)
A     =     average area irrigated by a
well (ha)


﻿14
0
Minimum spacing of wells:
c
s  RxAx     100
r,x 100
Where:      s    =     spacing (m)
Overall minimum spacing = 300 rn
(3)   Lift Irrigation
(a)   Any scheme estimated to cost Rs 2,000,000 or more shall be
submitted to the Association for approval.
(b)   A  detailed appraisal must be prepared for each individual scheme
whether or not it has to be so submitted, particular attention being given in such
appraisal to water availability, appropriate design and installation of adequate
pumping capacity.
2.    General Lending Requirements
(a)   The construction of irrigation and drainage channels shall be made
a condition for lending under the Project for any farm which is without said
tacilities. Such construction may be financed under the Project.
(b)   All investments in minor irrigation must (i) include energization of
wells, as far as practicable by electricity; and (ii) before being financed under the
Project must have had issued in relation thereto a certificate of non-objection
authorized by GSDA.
(c)   All investments in land development must be preceded by loan
approvals in respect of individual Beneficiaries.
3.    Guidelines for Organization and Appraisal
(a)   To the extent compatible with ARC's responsibilities as a refinancing
agency under the Project, GSDA shall be responsible for advising on development
of minor irrigation under the Project.
(b)   GSDA will through its field offices (i) demarcate elementary watersheds
and establish base maps of the watersheds so demarcated covering the areas in


﻿15
which Primary Banks and Participating Banks operate. These base maps (1:7,920
or other convenient scale) shall show locations of all existing wells, reservoirs, tanks,
weirs, canals, lifts, electricity lines and transformers; bench marks showing heights
above mean sea level datum; boundaries of major geological formations; (ii) issue
to Participating Banks and Primary Banks copies of such base maps covering the
areas in which such Banks carry out their lending operations; and (iii) guide and
coordinate the activities of appraisal teams from said Banks working in the area
in which the field offices operate.
4.    Appraisal Procedures
(a)   The Participating and Primary Banks must by public notice invite
applications for loans. The notice must clearly set out lending terms and an
explanation of appraisal methods. Such invitations may be staggered according to
taluka or block.
(b)   A Primary Bank appraisal team should normally consist of a supervisor
of the Primary Bank, a valuation officer and a technical officer who may be an
engineer or geologist. (In the case of Participating Banks, ARC should specify
appropriate corresponding arrangements.) Appraisal teams would visit the farms
of loan applicants on a group basis and would incorporate on the base maps:
(i)         the  well sites proposed    for installation, improvement or
electrification;
(ii)        farms and area (in hectares) proposed for irrigation by each such
well;
(iii)       proposed irrigation channels, or pipes to be installed or improved
for distribution from proposed wells.
(c)   Additionally, appraisal of dugwells will be assessed against the
estimated groundwater resources of elementary watersheds and these watersheds
will be the basic unit of group appraisal. Calculations of groundwater recharge
would be based on estimated rainfall, runoff, evapotranspiration and soil moisture
parameters supported by a qualitative analysis of factors such as gradients, soil
structure, vegetation and surface water storage.
(d)   In assessing groundwater resources, the appraisal team would consider:
(i)         the probability of obtaining an adequate December discharge
from the proposed development (150 m3/day in the case of new
dugwells and 120 m3/day in the case of improved dugwells);


﻿16
(ii)        the probable existence of two or more basalt layers under the
groundwater level;
(iii)       whether irrigation purposes would be better achieved by the
installation of a new well, which should not exceed an
investment cost of Rs 18,000, or by the improvement of an
existing well, at a cost generally not exceeding Rs 6,000, or
by extending the use of water discharged from existing wells
under the control of a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries.
(e)   Proposed tubewell and lift irrigation investments should be subject to
individual financial appraisal and proposed dugwell investments to standardized pro
forma financial appraisal. All appraisals should specifically include proposals on
whether:
(i)         there would be a group loan to farmers who would receive water
from the proposed development;
(ii)        the owners would enter into an agreement to sell water to
farmers other than Beneficiaries;
(iii)       there would be other cooperative arrangements.
(f)   Primary and Participating Banks will submit to the office of GSDA
a copy of the base map with relevant information and recommendations. Such
information will be entered by said office on its base map.
(g)   GSDA will physically check doubtful cases and at least 10% of all
recommended applications.
(h)   On receipt of GSDA's certificate of non-objection to an investment,
the Primary Banks and Participating Banks would complete loan formalities in the
usual way and, where appropriate, prepare an agreement for the sale of water.
(i)   All investments under the Project shall be evaluated in terms of
incremental returns from the additional investment, in accordance with the
evaluation method pres:ribed by ARC.
(j)   Outside the Project areas LDB or commercial banks and all departments
and agencies of Maharashtra lending for similar investments shall conform to the
appraisal criteria and procedures for minor irrigation as set out in this Schedule
and as further specified by GSDA one year after the Effective Date.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which part
of the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof shall be relent to LDB,
Participating Banks and the Primary Banks:
1.   Lending Terms to LDB and Participating Banks from ARC:
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 6-1/2% per annum
(b)   Repayments to be in installments set to coincide, more or less, with
the maturity period of the special debentures purchased by ARC or as the case
may be, with expected collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
(c)   Refinancing to be by way of purchase of debentures or by loans at
the rate of 90% of individual loans for minor irrigation and 75% of individual
loans for land development.
2.   Lending Terms to Primary Banks from LDB:
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 7-1/2% per annum.
(b)   Repayments in installments set to coincide, more or less, with expected
collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
(c)   Loans to cover 100% of Agricultural Loans made by Primary Banks.
3.    Re-use of Funds under the Credit:
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, repayments to ARC from
LDB and the Participating Banks shall be deposited in a special account to be
used only for refinancing ARC-approved agricultural development schemes, such
schemes to be carried out in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural,
and financial practices.
4.    Financial Terms and Conditions of Agricultural Loans
(a)   Primary Banks and Participating Banks lending to Beneficiaries:
(i)        Interest rate to be not less than 9% per annum.


﻿18
(ii)        An evaluation fee of 1/2% of individual project costs is payable
once and for all.
(iii)       Loan limit: 60%   of the developed value of land offered as
security.
(iv)        In  respect  of lending   by   Primary  Banks, Beneficiaries'
contributions to investments expressed as a percentage of
investment costs of the Project shall be in respect of normal
lending 10% of such costs except that in the case of minor
irrigation investments costing less than Rs 10,000 each, no such
contributions shall be made by Small Farmers; provided that
this exemption shall also apply to a Small Farmer participating
jointly with other farmers in any such investment where his share
of the total cost of the investment does not exceed Rs 10,000.
Beneficiaries will also be required to contribute an amount equal
to 10% of their loans to LDB's capital.
(v)         In respect of lending by Participating Banks, Beneficiaries'
contributions to investments expressed as a percentage of
investment costs of the Project shall be in respect of: (A) normal
lending 20%   of such costs, (B) lending to Small Farmers, a
minimum of 10% of the cost of minor irrigation investments
costing less than Rs 10,000 each; provided that the said 10%
minimum    contribution shall also apply to a Small Farmer
participating jointly with other farmers in any such investment
where his share of the total cost of the investment does not
exceed Rs 10,000.
(vi)        Loan Maturity: This shall be based on the Beneficiaries' capacity
to repay but shall not exceed:
(1)   the life of the assets financed; or
(2)   with respect to normal lending (A) 9 years on loans for
tubewells, lift irrigation schemes, dugwells and dugwell
improvements, (B) 10 years for land development loans
including a two-year grace period during which only
interest will be payable, and (C) 7 years on loans for
pumpsets, whether financed as individual loans or included
in dugwell loans;


﻿19
(3)   with respect to lending to Small Farmers (A) 15 years
for minor irrigation loans where the investment costs are
less than Rs 10,000 each, or in the case of a Small Farmer
participating jointly with other farmers in an investment,
where the contribution of the Small Farmer to the total
cost of the investment does not exceed Rs 10,000, except
for pumpsets in which case the period of repayment shall
not exceed 7 years whether financed as individual loans
or included in dugwell loans; and (B) 15 years including
a two-year grace period in the case of land development
loans.
Repayments shall in all cases commence at the beginning of the year next following
the year in which the investment concerned is completed. For the purnoses of
this paragraph the term "Sma!l Farmers" shall have the meaning from time to
time assigned to it by the Association and ARC as same may be incorporated
in any loan agreement between ARC, LDB and the Participating Banks concluded
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
5.    Other LDB Lending Operations
LDB and Primary Banks would apply the same down payment and maturity
requirements to all their similar lending operations, and the same interest rates,
evaluation fee and collateral requirements to all their lending operations (except
in the case of schemes submitted under the aegis of the Small Farmers and Marginal
Farmers Development Agencies in Maharashtra).


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
List of Primary Banks to be Reorganized
Ahmednagar
Akola
Amravati
Aurangabad
Bhandara
Bhir
Buldhana
Dhulia
Jalgaon
Kohlapur
Nagpur
Nanded
Nasik
Parbhani
Poona
Sangli
Satara
Sholapur
Udgir
Wardha
Yeotmal


