CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 293 IN
Maharashtra Agreement
(Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 293 IN
Maharashtra Agreement
(Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1972, between THE STATE OF
MAHARASHTRA (hereinafter called Maharashtra) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
inter alia that Maharashtra agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, of
the one part, and Agricultural Refinance Corporation and Maharashtra State
*        Cooperative Land Development Bank, Limited, of the other part, Agricultural
Refinance Corporation and Maharashtra State Cooperative Land Development Bank,
Limited, respectively, have agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of
the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. Maharashtra shall cause that portion which is applicable to
Maharashtra of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) Maharashtra shall by the Effective Date have established
in its Department of Industries GSDA, with clearly defined responsibilities and
authority and adequate staffing acceptable to the Association.
(b)   Maharashtra shall take such steps as may be necessary to enable GSDA
to perform efficiently its responsibilities with respect to the Project.
Section 2.03. In order to assist GSDA in the carrying out of geologic and
hydrologic analyses and in the application of appraisal criteria, Maharashtra shall
by the Effective Date, take such steps as shall be necessary on its part to enable
GSDA to obtain for 2 years upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, two internationally recruited qualified and experienced consultants.
Section 2.04. (a) Maharashtra shall by the Effective Date implement a plan
acceptable to the Association for the establishment by departmental reorganization
within its Department of Agriculture of LDA, with clearly delineated powers and
adequate staffing and with provision for the employment whenever necessary of
the services of specialists in land development on a contract basis.
(b)   Maharashtra shall where necessary arrange for the participation of
contractors in Maharashtra in the land development program    to be carried out
under the supervision of LDA.
Section 2.05. (a) Maharashtra shall by the Effective Date establish rates for
work done in respect of land development sufficient to cover all costs and shall
appropriately modify its lending program to conform with the procedures and terms
relating to this Project.
(b)   Maharashtra shall as far as practicable take due measures to recover
outstanding charges (not covered by a mortgage to LDB) in respect of any part
of the land development program completed before the commencement of Project
lending.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Maharashtra shall cause its State Electricity Board to act
expeditiously in, and give priority to, the connection of electricity to wells included
in the Project.
Section 2.07. Maharashtra shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect the Project and any relevant records and documents; and shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the services and the operations
and financial condition with respect to the Project of the agency or agencies
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 2.08. Maharashtra and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, Maharashtra
and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the Project, and other matters relating
to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 2.09. Maharashtra shall take all action which shall be necessary on
its part to enable ARC and LDB to perform their obligations under (i) the Project
Agreement, and (ii) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in the case of ARC, and shall
not take or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent
or interfere with the performance of any such obligations of ARC and LDB or
of Participating Banks associated therewith.
Section 2.10. Maharashtra and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.11. Maharashtra shall take all action which shall be necessary on
its part to support the implementation of the operating policies and procedures
set out in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.12. Maharashtra shall take all action which shall be necessary on
its part to complete the financial and managerial reorganization of the Primary
Banks in accordance with Section 2.14 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.13. Maharashtra shall through its Cooperative Department take
measures adequate to ensure (i) that the Primary Banks maintain an accounting
system which conforms to good accounting practices, (ii) that the accounts of
LDB and the Primary Banks are audited efficiently and in a timely manner by


﻿6
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and (iii) that the financial
statements of the Primary Banks shall be available within 4 months after the close
of the respective fiscal year.
Section 2.14. (a) Maharashtra shall be responsible for the organization of
the procurement of equipment required for the Project in accordance with Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)   Maharashtra shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit are insured against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, or that
adequate provision is made for the insurance thereof, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such
goods.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Maharashtra shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Category
III of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I to
the Development Credit Agreement to be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04 of the
General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify Maharashtra of this event
and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of
Maharashtra and the Association hereunder shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Project Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Maharashtra:
The Chief Secretary to the Government
of Maharashtra
Sachivalaya, Bombay
India
Cable address:
Restis
Bombay
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Iindevas
Washington, D.C.
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Maharashtra, may be taken or executed by the Secretary to the Government


﻿8
of Maharashtra or such other person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in
writing.
Section 4.03. Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of Maharashtra, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by Maharashtra pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By /s / L. K. Jha
A u thorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice Presiden t


